ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u85507	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the Croatian Parliament to be addressed to us by the president of the Ukraine of the NJ. Mr. Victor Juchenko. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. Allow me to welcome her on your behalf and on your behalf. Mr. Victor Juschenko, president of Ukraine. A delegation from Ukraine. [[Applause.]] A diplomatic assembly headed by the N.C. choir. [[Applause.]] E.Msgr. Francisco Javier Lozano. It is my honor to ask the Honorable Mr. President of Ukraine, Viktor Juschenk, to address the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the members of the diplomatic assembly present. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u85508	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. It is my honor to perform today at the Croatian Assembly... democracy, sovereignty and justice of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] /Applause./ [[Applause.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand, there's no translation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u85509	I thank the President of Ukraine, Mr. Viktor Juschenk, for his address, as well as the friendly messages to Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. The sitting continues as announced. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with a session and debate on - The Final Proposal for the Law on Weapons, the Third Reading of P.Z.E. No. 522; Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on legislation, internal policy and national security, gender equality and European integration. Interior Ministry State Secretary Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89144	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us the third proposal of the Arms Act. In fact, the previous two discussions in this House have initiated a major debate, and since we have seen in the debate the justification of some remarks, i.e. the insufficient definition of individual institutes in the law, we have proposed that the law go into both third reading and before you is a proposal, the final proposal of the Arms Act in which we have sought to comply with all those remarks that we have assessed will lead to a better and better law. I'll just say briefly what were the basic reasons for the adoption of the new Arms Act. Namely, there were several reasons. One of the reasons was that we should have brought our Arms Act into line with European legislation, European property, legal property and directives. And the second reason to pass this law was to increase the safety of citizens, i.e. to introduce an institute that would reduce the abuse of weapons that were unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia. Several basic news in general in the first proposed amendment, i.e. in the first version of the law, was that new weapons categorisation should be introduced in accordance with the European Directive. Then introduce the marking of the weapon with a stamp. Then it is introduced to take a mechanical trail of weapons which is very important because of later identification, finding the perpetrator of serious weapons crimes. The permanent handover of arms is then introduced, the conditions for obtaining a license to hold and carry arms are met, medical examinations are introduced as an obligation every five years, and not as until now for 10 years, with the length of the licence being tied to the length of the medical conviction and legalisation being introduced. So first I'm going to systematicize this through concrete articles of the proposed law. The weapon is classified as 4 categories, which is in line with the European acquis and European directives, and not as so far as it has been allowed and prohibited in 2 types. Then an obligation is introduced to report weapons from category C gas weapons, firearms reproductions, and marbles. Then, as I said, strict conditions for the supply of weapons. Infringements have been introduced under the Family Protection Act, the consumption of intoxicating drugs and other stunning assets as provided for in Article 10. We have witnessed that too many crimes of domestic violence, abuse, murder have been committed with firearms so that we wanted to tighten the conditions for persons who would apply for permission to hold and carry weapons, but also for the already existing gun owners that should be proven, i.e. through checks, i.e. through regular medical examinations every five years. Then it is also predicted that the belief of health skills is issued with a five-year period of validity, not as before for 10 years, and sanctions have been imposed for doctors who do not notify the police of a change in the health status of persons holding or carrying arms. In fact, we have noticed that a lot of roads have occurred in persons who have been authorised to carry and hold arms and who carry and hold arms have been changed in health conditions that have sometimes been the cause of weapons abuse and serious criminal offences, and the competent institutions in particular have not been informed about it, and certainly they could have prevented most of these most serious crimes that the MUP was informed in time of the occurrence of health changes in persons holding weapons. The examination and marking of firearms shall be followed by Articles 82 to 86 in accordance with EU Directive 91/477 and amending Directive 2006/0031. We feel that this is also very important except that we comply with our regulations with European Union rules and that we will introduce better and more accurate, more precise control and control of weapons. Next, the regulation of the issue of carrying and transporting weapons after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia is also a matter of full membership, as provided for in Articles 62 to 65. Voluntary handovers of prohibited and authorised weapons are introduced according to a different model. The weapon may always be surrendered and the person who submits it will not be prosecuted or prosecuted, nor criminally, if he reports it to the competent authority for surrender before taking reconnaissance actions by the police in accordance with the Law on Infractions and Initiating the reconnaissance of criminal offences from emergency investigations. We believe that in some way we should motivate citizens who illegally possess weapons to either return it or legalize it by detecting that previous years have been abuse. Namely, if police officers were to start treating the person who had knowledge that he was illegally holding a weapon or had even committed a criminal offence when the police came to confiscate the weapon owner, or the citizen would say I was just about to return the weapon and thus avoid criminal or criminal responsibility. That's why we introduced this possibility, first of all, to return it legally, or legalize it until it begins, until it has committed a criminal offence, or that it cannot be returned if the measures of police reconnaissance have begun against it. And as I said, gun legalisation is reintroduced so as to allow as many citizens as possible who have not broken the law, that is to say, committed violations possessing weapons so that they can also legalise it if it can be legalised according to this proposed division of arms to four groups. In short, I'll just count the differences in the proposed third variant of the law compared to the second variant. In fact, Chapter 14 on the obligation of technical examinations, which were articles 86 to 89, is deleted because the opinion of both professional organisations and the Hunting Union, the hunting associations of the peasant alliance, did not need this measure. The deadline for the sale of the weapons seized in the administrative procedure with the right to compensation is then extended. That deadline extends from six months to a year. We felt it was truly justified to provide weapons owners who could no longer have that deadline in which they could sell it so that their weapons would not be taken away. The amendments to Article 26(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 were subsequently made, which reads as follows: "No authorisation is required for the transfer of weapons for which the arms document has been issued.". This applies primarily to shooting companies travelling from city to city to competition. And with this, we wanted to resolve every doubt that they didn't need a special permit to have that weapon competing for that weapon have to have the police's approval. Then also increased number of rounds of ammunition that hunters and shooters can enter, Article 62 from 100 to 500, which was also a requirement of the Croatian Shooting Union and the Hunting Union and the shooting associations and hunting associations. It also increased the penalties in Articles 91 and 92 for the most serious criminal offences that begins against this Arms Act. It is then also a newspaper to be added to Article 107, paragraph 6, new point 7, which reads: "The way police officers act when seeking and collecting information from citizens for the purposes of the procedure under this Act.", that was the proposal of the Committee on Gender Equality. We really believe that there is a need to be aware of the least possible extent of arbitration in carrying out the checks. So we really want to maximise the police's conduct in carrying out these checks in order to avoid abuse, i.e. inciting or tending. It is also foreseen in Article 82 that the marking and testing of weapons is done by the manufacturer, not by the MUP. In view of the fact that this other variant would generate additional costs to gun owners, i.e. for arms producers and would lead to unnecessary administration. This is how the gun manufacturer is obliged to mark it and carry out the examination and data on the mechanical trace taken to the MUP. This is considered to be the most rational solution because every weapon will certainly be tried, marked and data and weapons delivered to the MUP, and will not cause any further unnecessary administration and costs for both manufacturers and gun owners, nor will the MUP have to engage additional capacities to carry out these measures of marking and testing of weapons. To conclude, the intention, purpose and purpose of adopting this Law was primarily to tighten the conditions for irresponsible gun owners, to try as many weapons as possible that are illegal to the property, which is illegal to the citizens, to try or legalize it or to try to take it away from the citizens. Because these illegal weapons are most often committed to the most serious crimes. On the other hand, it does not make it difficult and complicated to obtain and hold arms to hunters and sportsmen and other conscious citizens who purchase weapons for real or for the purposes of sports or for the purposes of hunting or for the protection of or other reasons provided for in this law. Otherwise, the practice has shown that hunters and archers are the most conscious and responsible owners, or weapons owners, that they do the most rarely with their weapons. And that's why we really tried to find a way not to make it difficult for them and not to complicate the purchase, holding and carrying of weapons and its use for those purposes for which it is obtained and registered. We hope that, without the time of legalisation and return, we will also encourage citizens to return weapons that are held illegally, that is to return weapons that are otherwise illegal that cannot be held under this Act to prevent the execution, or the events of heavy crime with weapons that are indeed too much in Croatia. We are aware that the Croatian state which came out of the war a few years ago was concentrated with citizens of the Republic of Croatia during the 1990s. And we believe that after the end of the war, the time has come for those whose weapons are not needed to carry out the shooting activity, to hunt it back because, according to all statistics, the Republic of Croatia is a safe country. And we think it would be a good idea if the weapon didn't stick to it without the necessary need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89145	Thank you. Committees on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President-in-Office Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89146	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 98th session held on 30 May 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Weapons, the third reading submitted to the Croatian Parliament's president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the law in question is proposed. The proposer points out that this law prescribes a series of measures aimed at more effective prevention and control of illegal production, procurement and possession and all other abuses in connection with weapons and explosive substances. It further points out that this legislative proposal is adapted to European weapons standards that increase the security of citizens with regard to the supply and possession of authorised weapons and the control of illicit weapons. It also notes that the law in question introduces an extension of the time limit for the return of arms to unlimited time without criminal prosecution when withdrawing... Police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and specifically pointed to provisions governing the conditions for the authorisation of the supply of weapons to natural persons. In this connection, the Committee submits amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Weapons with two amendments attached and which Mr. President should not read now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89147	If that's how you decided not to read, fine. Committees on Gender Equality, European integration, legislation. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89148	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Right away in the introduction, I will say on behalf of the club, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of a final proposal for the Arms Act. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, which is also witnessed by a declaration of compliance which is attached to this legislative proposal, and all in accordance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. The difference between the text of the final draft law in the second reading and the text proposed in the third reading was conditional on the comments and proposals made by individual ministries and other bodies of the Government of Croatia, to which the proposal was submitted for an indication, but also by the acceptance of amendments to the Clubs of Representatives, Parliamentary Committees, individual representatives from an individual debate. Because here in the previous two readings is an open wide debate on the above-mentioned Bill Proposal in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would like to look back and point out the differences compared to the second reading. Several particularly important issues that need to be regulated by law are more clearly highlighted in this legislative proposal, which will certainly contribute to better and more effective law enforcement after its adoption. In the first instance, this relates to the question of weapons categorisation, Articles 6 and 7 so now all the prohibited weapons are classified in category A. The authorised weapons with the obligation to issue approval are classified in category B. The authorised weapons with an application obligation are located in category C, while the weapons for which no approval or registration is required are found in category D. In Articles 12 and 13 which speak about the conditions for the supply of arms to natural persons, in particular for the necessary evidence to be attached to the purchase of sports weapons and hunting weapons, there may be an unequal criterion which may also be harmonised as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security with its amendment, but also the hunting alliance has made an objection to that part. Namely, paragraph 3 for sports weapons is told to members of the sports shooting association who are actively competing in shooting with written confirmation of a roof organisation that keeps track of membership of all Croatian shooting associations, while for the hunting weapon category B is proposed to prove correct about the hunting test. If the same criterion would be maintained, a hunting card which is actually an instrument that proves the hunting test and the hunting work, active hunting, should be attached with the submitted hunting test. In practice, it happens that someone passes a hunting test, buys a hunting rifle, and never, ever, really doesn't deal with hunting, or is a member of any hunting association, so it's a whole other criterion compared to the shooters, and that's also contained in the amendment that you got on behalf of the board. Article 26 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council. This added sentence clearly formulated the question of the transfer of weapons from one place to another, e.g. When hunters carry guns from house to hunting grounds in another county, they only need a gun list. The same situation is with the shooters, but also with other citizens who carry weapons, and for the weapons they carry, they have issued weapons papers, i.e. Weapons sheet. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is important here to say that the owner of the weapon is given the opportunity to find a buyer for that weapon within six months of the power of a solution to confiscation. If the weapon fails to sell itself, it is delivered to an authorised arms dealer where it will be exposed for sale for another six months. If the weapon is not sold then the trader returns it to the competent authority. As the State Secretary mentioned, there is also an increase in the number of ammunition that hunters and shooters can enter in the Republic of Croatia from 100 to 500 pieces, which is regulated in Article 62. There is also a question in the Republic of Croatia whether this will cause a certain increase in administration, especially for hunters and shooters, but since the law is in line with European Union legislation then it is better to resolve it today than to change and amend the law again in a few years when Croatia enters the European Union. The technical checks on firearms in relation to second reading shall delete Articles 86 to 89 by simplifying the procedure for testing and marking firearms by means of a brand which is the obligation of the arms manufacturer under the supervision of course of the Ministry of Interior. It is also important to note that no fee is charged for taking fingerprints to legal and physical persons. The difference between the second reading and the second reading is a significant increase in fines, in particular in Article 91, which provides for an unauthorized procurement, holding, selling or giving of arms to someone else a penalty of 10 to 100 thousand kuna or a sentence of up to 60 days in prison. This is, of course, a weapon forbidden by this law. For the holding or carrying of weapons without the necessary authorisation for natural persons, a fine of 5 to 50 thousand kuna shall be determined. The difference is compared to the current law in issuing a conviction of health skills from 10 to 5 years now, with a sanction imposed on doctors who do not notify the police of a change in the health status of a person holding and carrying a weapon. For this reason, since this article has been somewhat vaguely formulated, the Croatian Democratic Community Club has proposed and proposed an amendment to which the new paragraph 4 of Article 107 of this Law, which is referred to by the Minister of Health, with the agreement of the Minister of the Interior, will provide for the way and procedure in which the doctor referred to in Article 11(6) of this Act will inform the competent authority of the change in the health status of the owner of the arms which affects the ability to hold and carry arms. In fact, there is a good intention of the promoter to prevent, in cooperation with anyone who may have knowledge of the properties and health of the gun owner, the weapon from coming or staying in the hands of a person who might abuse it. And it can fall into the water if there is no precise way of identifying each other's reports. The chosen primary healthcare physician must have knowledge that his patient has a gun license. Similarly, the process of reporting to the competent police administration or the station in which the weapons are registered must be elaborated, if the gun owner no longer has the health capacity to hold and carry weapons. It is too great a risk if a person fails to fulfil his obligation and the punishment for doctors is prescribed in Article 92(1) is three to fifteen thousand kunas, or a prison sentence for up to 30 days. Therefore, the MPs' club also proposes this amendment that this issue can be regulated more clearly. It is important to note that voluntary handovers of prohibited and authorised weapons are introduced according to a different model as resolved in Articles 97, 98, 99 and 100. Article 97 concerns the handover of prohibited weapons without sanctions for citizens. As the State Secretary of State said in the introduction, he can always hand him over, and the person who handed him over to the police before the reconnaissances, in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Police Act, of course, will not be prosecuted. Articles 98 and 99 shall provide for the possibility of legalisation of weapons which may be owned but, within 6 months, if such weapons are reported to the competent authority for registration, also before the reconnaissance of the police. Finally, it should be said that there are strict conditions for the supply of arms to persons who commit violations of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the consumption of intoxicating drugs or other stunning assets. With the belief that the Final Proposal of the Arms Act on the acquisition, possession and control of illicit weapons will meet the purpose of adoption and contribute to greater security of citizens, the HDZ Club will support its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89149	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89150	Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues! Well, at first, I will also say on behalf of the SDP Club that we will not support this bill for a few reasons that I will present in my debate. I will begin, in fact, by pointing out that, in its explanation of this proposal for the law in the third reading, the Secretary of State said that the basic reasons, the two basic reasons for such a proposal for legislation, is that, on the one hand, it is a harmonisation with European legislation, and on the other hand, that, by adopting this law and by applying this law, it will increase the security, generally the security of citizens, because certain institutes are being introduced to reduce the dangers, so to increase security. In doing so, he listed among other things new weapons categorisation, then tightening the conditions for holding and carrying arms, reducing the time period during which mandatory medical examination should be carried out, and permanent legalisation. However, at the SDP club, we believe that these reasons, i.e. this newspaper that is being introduced in this law, are not going towards the fact that, today, tomorrow or in the near future, they are increasing the general security of citizens. In fact, we do not see in the SDP how this law will enable Croatia to face and to solve its biggest problem when it comes to weapons, which is holding or hiding, or how we will call it illegal or illegal weapons, or weapons that are not reported. Namely, from the debates which the secretary of state has said exactly so far, he has initiated a major debate in the Croatian Parliament, which was clear to expect. But it should be recalled that in Croatia as it says in the light of this law somewhere in April is data, we have 369 thousand 612 pieces of legal weapons owned by 199,000 509 citizens. On the other hand, we have again to some of course only estimates of at least three times as many illegal weapons. Actually, there's no third. On the one hand, there are weapons now in legal possession, and on the other hand, we have huge amounts of weapons that are illegal among citizens. And the problem, what we see in the SDP of this law is, in fact, exactly what is primarily and in most of its part referred to as legal weapons and what is now, or someone in the future. And actually with these provisions that the secretary of state was talking about, that's true. We, through this law, sharpen or strengthen the control of weapons, but those weapons that are already under control today are under control. Of course, we in the SDP support the tightening of certain criteria that we agree with, although it is very unpopular to introduce new taxes or taxes or taxes and how they were heard from both sides and the first two readings of this law. However, we also warn from the SDP club that this law is actually objective in the situation that we expect that in fact part of the weapons that are now legal will become illegal weapons tomorrow because simply one part of the people will not decide to return, and they will not decide to pay for new checks now and so on. And on the other hand, it is actually assumed that the number of legal weapons will be reduced due to its technical failure, although I have to say as far as we are concerned in the SDP club, I do not understand the claim that there is a large amount of weapons in the legal property and poses great danger to the owner of the weapon and its environment. So we don't know on what basis. I guess some data exists, but they're not listed here. We in the SDP understand and understand, and we support that our laws, and then this law that speaks of weapons, about keeping and carrying weapons, are in fact also in line with European criteria, or European directives, European legislation. However, it seems to me or to us in the SDP that, in fact, it has been forgotten a little and insufficiently, and through these provisions of the law, that, unlike the countries of the European Union, Croatia has a war against itself, there are war casualties, there is a huge amount of weapons which are so to say more or more well hidden in a number of our citizens. And in fact, it is true, and I suppose we all agree that the good part of the problem of illegal weapons in Croatia actually lies in the way that these weapons were purchased right before, during or during the war operations in Croatia. Unlike the countries of the European Union, Croatia has a huge amount of illegal weapons that we have always stressed in Croatia have committed more than 95% of all crimes, robberies, murders, mutilations, murders, suicides but also accidental, accidental accidents that then remain wounded or killed. As a matter of fact, in the SDP, we would like to know and hear it from the Government or we would like to see it in a much more pronounced way and in this law because it is here for us or it is too little. In fact, it's unclear in the end how and how we actually think we're going to motivate and stimulate our citizens to return weapons or at least give it to incapacitation. In the preparation of this law, and this should be emphasized, I remember that back maybe two years we've been intensively talking about the Arms Act, and in fact, in the preparation of this Law on Weapons by the Government, we've actually created and there's still been an illusion, in fact, that this law will solve the problem of illegal weapons, that we will raise the general security of citizens, reduce crime, reduce domestic violence, etc. And we cannot simply believe that we are thinking or believing that crime, organised crime and everything else related to it will be solved so that, in fact, through this law, we will again sign up now as a legal weapon, and we still have a problem, and we warn that again and in the third reading in this law, the problem of motivation of citizens holding illegal weapons to report it or to return. And to motivate citizens to return illegal weapons, we actually have two options. On the one hand, these are criminal provisions, on the other hand, certain stimulating provisions, or in some way a combination of one and the other provisions. When we talk about criminal provisions, then we have to say ok. In one part, these fines have been increased, but I remind you again, and we've pointed out that once someone with a gram of marijuana gets up to three years in prison, and here, when you catch him carrying a gun, a good part of them will be able to pay the fine and then almost nothing at all. If the problem is in our criminal legislation, then perhaps we should have, so far we have had a few amendments to the supplementation of the Penal Code, somewhere last summer and last year it was possible to work in a coordinated way and provisions, and what was wanted to achieve by the Arms Act, take advantage of the opportunity to solve some things through the Penal Code. Otherwise, we have stressed in previous discussions, and today we especially stress on behalf of the club that we advocate that criminal provisions related to possession, wear, use and everything else in the case of illegal weapons should actually be transferred from criminal to criminal law. In the discussion of this law in the second reading, we have proposed and I repeat it again on behalf of the club the orientation of these collected funds to be obtained on the basis of the application of this law. In fact, there are some estimates that the application of this law will collect about thirteen million kunas and we have actually proposed and asked that the government target this money in the direction of some kind of buy-in stimulation, or handing over illegal weapons, so that illegal weapons are returned. We repeat constantly on the need to come up with strong propaganda actions that will go towards our citizens. And of course, then all of this would mean that these provisions, if I were to say unpunished return of illegal weapons, should actually be time-limited because, under this bill, this is actually the possibility of illegal weapons being legalized, I would say that it stretches in some way suddenly. So it turns out that some other MPs here in about ten years from these same benches and from this pay phone will probably talk about the same problems or similar figures that we're talking about today. The lack of this law, according to us in the SDP, is also in this respect, it reads in Article 13, which actually enables a natural person to obtain arms, and I quote, "So, a natural person has a legitimate reason to obtain a self-defense weapon if it proves that its personal security is compromised or could be compromised to such an extent that it needs a weapon for its insurance, and if, because of the nature of the business or the circumstances in which it is carried out, there is a need for the purchase of weapons, and the activities and measures of the security institutions or other measures could not be provided with sufficient, sufficient protection. How much in the spirit of European legislation is questionable to us, and on the other hand, we are asking whether we are actually admitting that the police are actually not enough for us or that they are not able to fully protect their citizens, but here we can obtain weapons if a natural person in some way proves that he has a legitimate reason because he is, because his life is at stake. And finally what we would particularly like to highlight on behalf of the SDP Club, which is that it seems to us that perhaps through this law, in a more explicit way, we should include the need of our associations which, in theirs, are gathering our volunteers, our Homeland War fighters, of whom one part of them has been diagnosed and PTSD. So also through this law that one I would tell them a more significant role in their need to be more prominent than ever as partners in some way not only to the Ministry, not only to the Government, but also to all Croatian citizens in motivating and their members that they are so far returning the weapons they own, which they have since the Homeland War. I repeat, therefore, because of what I have put forward in the SDP, we are not convinced that this law will fulfil one of those basic reasons, therefore for the greater security of citizens and address the issue of illegal weapons, and therefore we will not vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89151	Thank you. The HSLS club is a respected representative, Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and state secretaries, so here is the final proposal of the Arms Act, perhaps it is before us the final proposal of the arms law, which was completed after 3 readings and the law which hopefully will hold little to the stock held by the citizens, and then, of course, to ensure greater security of the citizens. I recall that in 1992, the Arms Act was passed, so so far it has suffered only a series of changes, additions that sought to achieve greater control over illegal weapons owned by citizens. However, in practice these measures were not fully implemented. The citizens still own large quantities of weapons and I'm sure we're among the most heavily armed people. The fact that in legal possession there are still over 350 thousand pieces of weapons is certainly an interesting data. The alarming fact is that citizens are still, therefore, still have a significant amount of banned firearms that cannot be legalised, which citizens have for a decade and only when something ugly happens then we get such data. It is good, therefore, to reintroduce surrender, voluntary handover of prohibited and authorised weapons, this time in a different way or permanent handover of weapons, which I hope successfully at least will reduce the number of illegal weapons owned by citizens. It is therefore possible to apply this measure without being prosecuted. Neither misdemeanor nor punishment prior to taking reconnaissance actions under the Law on Violations and the initiation of reconnaissances of criminal offences and of emergency investigations. So citizens will no longer be able to get away with, that they were afraid of different sanctions, which of course there was no argument. It is very good because the lack of such amnesty would lead to the sanctioning of conscientious citizens who voluntarily hand over weapons, and they would be unwittingly forced to say that they often said that they had rejected weapons that threatened the safety of others. Often, we were able to read mostly in the paper that the weapons were at the end of different roads and also in garbage cans and containers because the citizens allegedly did not know how to get rid of it. For the past 15 years, temporary amnesty or temporary action has been applied. I will remind myself of 1992, and by the end of the action, "good-bye to arms" by the end of 2000, when 33,000 589 pieces of automatic firearms were handed over. And when you add the 350 grand that are in legal possession so far, you will really come up with the fact that we are a well-armed and well-armed people. In 1996 and 1997, the fee for the dedicated, dedicated weapons was paid, so there was a record that 30 million 342 were spent almost 343 thousand kuna in return for the return of the weapons. And maybe that's the kind of charge that caused the warehouse to be cleaned up, so we need to think about those options one more time. But it's good that this bill puts weapons in four categories. So prohibited which cannot be legalised, authorised for which prior authorisation is required, authorised weapons to be declared to the competent authority and authorised for which no authorisation or notification is required by the competent authority. According to the current Law on the Weapons of a person of twenty-one, up to 21 can no longer apply for legalisation or obtaining a permit for arms. It is good that this provision is so and we hold that this age limit should not be reduced to below and I think that it should also use adequate terms when it comes to 18 or 21 years of age. This proposal for a law stipulates that citizens who legally possess weapons must renew their belief of health skills or health control every year, so I will try to draw attention to some of the elements that could be done to make this law truly even better. So the change is good, but until now that deadline has been every 10 years that has certainly been too long and can lead to serious changes and during which it is less than 5 and let alone 10 years, especially in various mental illnesses. In Article 11, which I believe will indeed have to be resolved by amendments. One of the amendments was handed over by the HSLS Club. I'll be ready to defend him tomorrow unless you accept him by reading the explanation. It is prescribed that the selected primary healthcare physician as well as any other doctor who has knowledge of changes in the health condition or course of treatment of the gun owner affecting the health care ability to hold and carry the weapon that he is required to inform the competent authority immediately upon knowledge of such a change. It is good, therefore, that doctors are given the obligation and the authority to report to the competent authority. That Article 92 provides for sanctions. The question arises, however, how will a doctor who comes to such knowledge know that it is a person who owns a weapon. It's not to be expected that a general practice doctor will ask you if you have a weapon? So, there will really be a need to educate doctors and perhaps send instructions to help them, and we therefore propose an amendment on co-operation and the Ministry of the Interior, and health care, and the Croatian Medical Chamber to avoid such wandering and to ensure that the law is indeed here and enforceable. Article 21 states that authorisation to hold and carry arms is granted with a period of 10 years, and the health certificate must be renewed every 5 years. We think it's two deadlines that need to be harmonised. I'd just like to say more, to warn you of the amendments that the HSLS Club has submitted. One of them refers, therefore, to this part of which I have already talked about where it is really necessary to find models to inform doctors to help patients and find out that it is the person carrying the weapon and that because of his medical condition he can be dangerous to himself or the environment. It is then stated in Article 91 of the second paragraph that a 45-day fine will be fined by a natural person for a violation under one which, without authorisation, receives, holds or carries a weapon for which authorisation is required. Next under number two, if he gives weapons of use to children. Here, more stringent sanctions should be made for the possible use of weapons for children not only in fine or in prison, but, of course, it seems to us completely and logically by withdrawing the weapons, or by withdrawing the licenses for carrying and holding weapons precisely for the purpose of preventing tragic events. And the amendment that we have submitted to this law that I particularly wish to draw attention to. I hope that we will find your understanding of the fact that domestic violence is on the rise or the public's sensibility is higher, so the members of the family and neighbors report more frequently, and in Article 10(5), behind the word “disrupted family relations”, so when a ban on carrying a weapon is added the following text “not to be able to bear or hold a weapon any application to a state body or institution for domestic violence, that is to say, to violate family relations”. Because it's completely illogical, I see the support of fellow MPs, that someone who abuses their family at home, beats them, can have a gun license, and the question is whether he will discover other means. So I am asking you, and I am convinced, regardless of our party differences, that you will support this amendment. Thank you very much. Here I hope that after this law there will be fewer weapons and more sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89153	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89154	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This law in its original was first passed in '92. And after that, we see that it has been changed even eight times, clearly with the primary purpose of destroying part of the back weapons from the Homeland War, that is, to be stored somewhere safe and not threatened by any civil security. Unfortunately, in all these changes, all with the goal of achieving so-called. We haven't made it through civil security until today. There's a whole new law ahead of us. In principle, it's a good law, but still a law that can't make it right. I think it's good to get guns at 18 now to 21 years old. It's also good that health beliefs are now worth five years, not like it was 10 years ago, and almost for life. But we also see that it is not good for Croatia on the other hand to have hundreds of thousands of weapons left behind from the Homeland War that are either on the one hand or legalised, or that what would be far smarter and better stored in police warehouses. On 18.4.2007, 369612 weapons were registered in this country. So these 369612 weapons were owned by 199509 people. A lot of those weapons I dare say are far more dangerous for the owner, for his family than for anyone else in this country. But now how do you motivate an ordinary or average citizen to give that weapon up, say, to the police? That's what we've been trying to do for the last ten years. Unfortunately, that's not what we're doing. However, no matter what, Croatia is certainly still despite these 369000 pieces of different weapons, a safe country. We are far safer than many Eastern European countries, many and even Western European countries, not to talk about these countries a la Ukraine from which Jušenko comes, etc. who spoke to this House today. The truth is, on the other hand, every day we read I don't know at the wedding this guy killed his father from this or I don't know that kid killed his brother, etc. But it's his fault, first of all, I dare say our mentality because obviously without a gun, many citizens can't feel safe, I can't feel completely, I can't feel fulfilled. I repeat, this law is certainly not a bad law. But I'm afraid he won't change much. What is certainly important to order in this law or I do not know how to communicate with the public is Article 38 of the procedure in the event of the death of the gun owner and then we see that in the event of the death of the owner of the weapon, the full-time member of his family, the legal representative, the guardian, the person who lived with him in the joint household or the person in whom the weapon is found immediately upon knowledge of the existence of the weapon to inform the competent authority about the handover of the weapon, etc. etc. I'm saying it or rather, I only mention it for one reason to simply know what the procedure is, that in such cases the family must report that weapon. It is certainly also important in this Law that the provisions of Chapter 7 which bear the title: "Introduction and amount of arms and ammunition", I am talking about the weapons that are brought into the country because of the various sports competitors, competitions, pardons, and so on and so forth, sports do not know what it is called. I think we can agree that hunting is a tourist activity, hunting is an extremely expensive activity. Thus, it does not concern everyone in this country or in the world. There's a lot of people out there, and there's more of a lot of people out there, and there's more of a deal in hunting than here. And therefore, in my court it is not necessary to defend this activity but rather to develop hunting in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is clear that domestic hunters must not feel left out. I only report that it means the procedure when it comes to the entry and the amount of weapons and ammunition from the country is maximumly reduced, make it as simple as possible for people who are coming to Croatia to participate in the hunt. Because I personally believe that, ultimately, this country can certainly benefit greatly. However, no matter what, I am most interested, with a clear confiscation of arms production and ammunition, which is expressed or better stated in Chapter 9 of Article 66 to Article 71, respectively. Croatia's war production almost expired. Why? Or rather, weapons production. Maybe that's why individuals can trade, so they can pick up high fees. As a result, we know that some were killed in this country, others were at war, and others were rich. Not a single Zagorac I think is the only one involved. He may have boasted, for a moment he thought all of Croatia was on sale, that all of Croatia was his or should become one. But what am I saying? The guns were traded by many. And 90% of them worked for themselves first, that's logic. Unfortunately, few of them worked for this country. We see this money later bought companies, money was transferred to Swiss banks, they participated in the conversion and unfortunately some of them, and they were highly politically ranked, not to mention their functions today are pillars of society. However, Croatia remained among other things because of such a policy without the military industry. Unfortunately all of us here know weapons are goods, payable goods, she's wanted, she's paid, she's bought, she's sold, she's imported, she's exported, it makes it clear, and Croatia, it does all the other countries that participate, I don't know, in that trade. And that job, that's what I'm saying, should be taken seriously in some way. And it seems to me that in this country no matter what we have a specialized agency called "RH-Alan" it doesn't do it seriously, that what we can even do we don't export. And we see that many jobs in front of our noses would say the people of this country are losing. But now it's not a public story how it's done. All in all, I think that the emphasis here should be put in this law on the return of arms, you should put emphasis on supervision, you should put emphasis on the prevention of self-will, maybe you should put in this law and increase penalties, the question is whether they are large enough because of the risks that the weapon carries with it. And what I personally hold higher than the economic moment of this country, which is that it should also encourage arms and ammunition exports. Croatia is in front of the whole reconstruction to express these material assets of the Armed Forces. Therefore, some of this should be produced in the country, and in parallel, we should also participate in the world market if we want to benefit from it. All in all, regardless of some small, petty remarks you've heard about this speaker, the law is correctly written. This is the third reading, so he's accessing it as seriously as possible, and I don't think there's any obstacle to raising his hand without remorse. All in all, I think the law is correct, that it should be supported. But what should be stressed is the production of these weapons and ammunition from Chapter 9 and how to try to place these weapons among other things on third markets. All those who think that others do not have the ambition to place those weapons in Croatia are deceived. Therefore, we must act under that cap of the earth as everyone treats the Republic of Croatia. So with those words, I think this bill is correct. That it is correct to testify that the law was three times in front of parliamentary deputies, which is not often the case and that the same should be supported so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89155	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89156	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would say very briefly. In his numerous irresponsible political improvisations, Mr Cain said among other things few who worked for the Croatian state. It is completely incorrect and it is one in a series of insinuations that aim to claim publicly irresponsible that few people have actually worked for Croatia. If that were true, then we wouldn't be sitting here today, then we wouldn't be here today. The vast majority of people worked really for Croatia and in the sphere of supply and in the sphere of production, especially in the sphere of defence of the Republic of Croatia. These accusations have indeed lost every rational measure, distorting the truth about our recent history and the role of many people who are truly responsible, have been conscious of their tasks in the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89157	HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89158	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After a little over half a year, a third proposal for the Arms Act arrived at the assembly benches. After a year since the proposal first saw the light of day, some positive shifts have been made, but in our opinion not enough. That they will indeed be insufficient and I am afraid that this will very soon show the time, the HNS Club welcomes the efforts to bring this sensitive area into line with the legal gains of the European Union countries, but we believe that this important security area must be regulated in a better way, especially at a time when the rate of crime is growing. After not accepting the amendments in the second reading, it is good that some shifts are made in this proposal as the HNS Club proposed in the amendments, but our main proposals for introducing, i.e. increasing penalties for those who illegally own weapons, this government did not accept. Why? We do not know, and we have a vague reason to reject such proposals because how do we interpret the reasoning that rejects our proposals? According to the legal theory, the crime is what is laid down by law and that is why the sentence of prison is prescribed, and the penalty for such acts is prescribed by the Penal Code. In this case, the company is subject to less dangerous acts and less weapons, and a criminal sanction is prescribed for it. Is the safety of our citizens not in the first place, so are you not in a position to change the Law of Penalty if you wish? Who decides by what criteria? That it's less dangerous acts and less weapons we can't accept this argument. Such a way of thinking is the main reason for the amendments to the law, which is to reduce the abuse rate of illegal weapons will never be met and therefore we believe that very soon these changes will show that. The adoption of this new law will not be enough for better conduct in the future. In fact, there is still a large amount of illegal weapons in the Republic of Croatia that will not be touched by the measures of this Law. Does the bill promoter really think that illegal weapons remain in that dark zone because of poor technical or technological legalisation conditions or because citizens are unconscious so as not to report a weapon that has been robbed or raided, unserious interpretation of black statistics that endangers every citizen of ours? I'm going to repeat the general known fact that in the last 20 years, 99% of the cases in the use of weapons in criminal acts, weapons that have been illegally purchased and unregistered or are weapons of the forbidden species have been used. The government has accepted part of our proposal to increase fines, but since I just warned the law not. Despite worrying figures on the increase in crime, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES continue to reject our proposals on further tightening of penalties for illegal holding, carrying or obtaining weapons, that is, how we have proposed to abolish fines for those arrested as illegally owned and carrying arms and to introduce exclusively prison sentences, because fighting a criminal mile that operates in this way does not make too much sense if such people are left with the possibility of fines. If caught with illegal weapons, they will very easily pay a fine that could be given to them and continue to commit a crime. By tightening sanctions, we can prevent the spread of these unwanted phenomena and thus send a message to the offenders that they will be drastically sanctioned. For our actions and now we have a paradoxical situation to tighten the penalties for example by this Law. Doctors who are even being threatened by a prison sentence unless they notify the police of changes in the condition of a patient who would affect his ability to hold and carry weapons, while those who illegally have weapons have no fear of prison punishment because it is not intended for them. I must say that we are pleased that the promoter has supported at least some of the proposals that we have sent to sports shooters clubs where they rightly warn themselves that the text of the Arms Act in certain parts deprives the rights of these same clubs and even discriminates against sports shooting associations that are neatly and properly registered, which still achieve exceptional sports results. Their proposal is respected to increase the amount of ammunition per weapon from 100 to 500 pieces by law, as it thus enables uninterrupted competition for multi-disciplinary competitors. Also, their proposal to add sentences that will allow members of the shooting associations for the transport of weapons in domestic transport to participate in competitions not to need approval for the transport of weapons and ammunition, since they go to sports competitions almost every week. So these proposals have been adopted, but we must warn the promoter of the following. There are no provisions adopted in the law, or you have adopted that proposal, but you have not included it in the law, so please check your own reasoning and Article 76. The law and make sure that when writing the law in theirs, you include in its content those proposals that you have adopted. Furthermore, as the practice is already becoming unclear, the law does not come into force immediately, but in part on 1 September 2008, when power is changed and part of Croatia's entry into the European Union is only from the moment of Croatia's entry into the European Union. This proposal shows how long this Government has until law enforcement, and how important it is to comply with European Union legislation on paper in the election year. I repeat this is a law that directly refers to the security of our citizens and all of us. This attitude towards this segment of life in the Republic of Croatia speaks enough about how much the legislator really cares about them. I would eventually propose to the Secretary of State that the government settle by a regulation or by some other act to declare in Croatia a week of purchase of weapons from defenders, to raise money from the government, something from associations, because it is the only way you will ever, from defenders and volunteers of the Homeland War who are also sentimentalally bound to someone's weapons of war, that's by ransom because these people are without funds and that's the only way we're really going to make a significant move in removing those weapons from various shelters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89159	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89160	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me first of all, on behalf of the HSP Club, thank the Proposer of this Law for adopting the debate in the second reading, which was used in a way to examine and mark the brand of firearms produced in Croatia, by including Article 82, that is, the article that allows this examination and marking to be carried out by the arms manufacturer, of course with the supervision of the Ministry of Interior, because actually by adopting this proposal from the discussion of the club of HSP in the second reading, without being too pathetic, it is possible to say saved one of the most respected productions in Croatia that exists, which is indeed one respected company for the production of weapons that fully produced, and employs more than 850 export workers, and you market it on the American market. If this remark from the second reading had not been adopted, it would indeed mean closing that factory and practically leaving more than 800 people without jobs, because the company would have been forced to move most likely to America. But in any case, there is still a whole series of shortcomings in this law that actually left him in the third reading. If you look at this proposal for a number of amendments and adopted comments from the second reading, then you can ask yourself, in fact, why did the bill go into the third reading in the first place, when so little of the second reading was adopted. Here I'm going to mention only one thing, only one problem to which it relates, about seven amendments submitted by the HSP club, and all of these seven amendments actually relate to one and the same topic. In fact, it is the subject which is treated by articles from Article 44 until Articles 48 and 51 respectively, which is the subject of weapons confiscation. Disposal of weapons from legal weapons owners. So, not taking away any illegal weapons that were spoken of here, but simply taking away legal weapons from their legal owners. Why is this subject so interesting? Well, first of all, it's interesting because it's a very questionable procedure and it's also a practice that this law hasn't changed at all since the law so far, which is a procedure and practice that actually violates the fundamental constitutional rights of the citizens who legally own weapons. Namely, all of us interested in this subject of possession, the Law on Weapons and the subject regulated by this bill are convinced that such a bill as is before us can be repressive, that is correct, but can only repressively affect those who legally possess weapons, not those who possess or use it illegally. Something about this was said by Sobol colleague on behalf of the SDP club, and indeed this is a law that is repressive, but repressive only to those who legally own weapons, not repressive to those who own and use it illegally. And he doesn't regulate that problem at all. counterpart Adlesic said on behalf of the HSLS club that she hopes that by adopting this law, the weapons will be less and the fines will be greater. Indeed, that's true, but that applies again only to the legal weapon. Indeed, according to this law, the legal weapon will be reduced, and the penalties against the owners of the legal weapons will be greater. But that doesn't even touch the problem of reducing illegal weapons, and it doesn't particularly touch the problem of punishing the use of illegal weapons. Whether it can be solved by some other law as suggested by the HNS club now, saying here primarily by criminal or this law, it really doesn't matter, because this problem is definitely to be solved. I'll give you just a few examples to know what I'm talking about, when I'm talking about the law being repressive for those who legally own weapons, and why do we think articles 44 to 51 are constitutionally questionable? Today is a practice of police conduct, and examples of the reason for weapons confiscation I'm going to give you a few. For example, there are very common examples in practice that the reporting of neighbors who are due to less contention or out of pure malice report hunters to threaten them with murder, physical injury or insult of national feelings, and the offenders, as well as the Penal Code, allow the weapons to be taken away from the owner and even for acts that are not at all due to a causal relationship with the weapon after such application. The weapon is that it's even more tragic, it can be taken away by means of an entirely anonymous application. An anonymous application with a fictitious reason and a police officer comes to a hunter who owns a legal weapon at home and takes it away from him. Because of the criminal or criminal proceedings conducted with the basis of, for example, a responsible person in a company, director, manager, management president or anything else, also on the basis of an existing law and discretionary assessment regardless of the actual responsibility that can be proved only by a final judicial verdict, the weapons shall be taken away. The weapons are being taken away regardless. He's been reported for some responsibility as a responsible person in some company for, say, I don't know, not paying taxes. Based on that, his weapon can be taken from him. The weapon is also taken away in cases where it is only a discretionary decision of a police officer and the confiscation is explained by the existence of an indication that the weapon will be misused or that its owner is a questionable health condition. So police officers actually become both judges and doctors, doctors, he, whether it allows him their vast discretionary right to so-called. administrative procedure, which is totally unacceptable and unknown in all European court proceedings. In fact, we tried to solve it with our fifth amendment. In fact, such discretionary actions have been re-emerged, namely, a formulation is proposed in the law, allowing for the abuse of this discretionary right and, of course, the violation of the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' rights. In fact, the confiscation of weapons is only potential on the basis of an indication which is interpreted by administrative staff rather than on the basis of precise guidelines in the law or even established facts. Which would otherwise mean in Article 48, I quote the provisions of this law: "The facts on which a solution should be established", so for the confiscation of weapons "have been established or at least made probable.". I'm asking a direct question, Mr. Secretary of State, and I'm asking a direct answer as to how these facts can be made probable. And what are the likely facts? Facts are, they were likely or unlikely, but they're facts. Therefore, the biggest problem is that a solution to the temporary confiscation of weapons is being re-engaged after several weeks and whether it is against the owner or whether any criminal or criminal proceedings are being re-engaged by this famous discretionary law. The administrative decision turns this into a solution to confiscation of weapons with the right to compensation, therefore permanently. In this way, the owner is obliged to surrender or sell those weapons on his own within 60 days, regardless of what his value may be in material, collectorial, or otherwise sentimental terms, because, for example, the weapon has been allocated for some exceptional merits in the war is completely invaluable to the owner. Following the expiry of that period, weapons shall be seized and referred to as consignors, regardless of the fact that in some cases they have not even initiated any proceedings, any criminal investigations or reports have even been rejected. No matter what the weapon goes for sale, it's permanently taken away. The only way to prevent the owner from selling his weapons is to initiate an administrative procedure that usually takes several years in the Croatian state. In this way they are violated by the Constitution guaranteed the rights of an individual to property and the right to an uninterrupted availability of their property. I would like to point out that there are also those involved in the pursuit of hunting services, hunters, their calling and business cannot be handled without weapons, those persons are not just deprived of the right to deal with their hobbies if we consider hunting a hobby that is already being taken away from them by hunters. And the hunters who are normally and legally escorts of the guests in economic hunting are deprived of the right to deal with this kind of hunting tourism that we so advocate when we talk about tourism. So, some discretionary rights based on some anonymous application if the facts made to the likely are taken away from a man who is actually engaged in hunting tourism. In fact, there are cases in which the police repeatedly, let's say here I now state one example if we're so concerned about the safety of citizens. There are cases where police repeatedly catch an individual in violation of traffic regulations in such a way as driving cars under the heavy influence of alcohol. Some of these individuals then cause a car accident with tragic and fatal consequences but no one thinks that in these cases they are being prevented from taking away the vehicle that in their case represents the most deadly weapon. So by defining a case where weapons can be taken away and what has not been changed in relation to the existing law, we come to a very simple conclusion that there is actually no situation in Croatia where weapons cannot be taken from owners, such a situation does not exist. In view of the fact that, for example, public order and peace violations, which could be the cause of weapons confiscation is a very broad notion and the powers of a police officer are a discretionary right to the loss of arms are the most banignant disturbances of public order and peace, such as waste of garbage along the road. If you're a hunter, you can run out of guns because of your unconscious waste management. The conclusion of our and the proposal of the HSP club when this problem is both from the constitutional and legal point of view of weapons could be temporarily taken away from us only for acts that are in a causal and consequential relationship with its possession and use, and not with any violations for the longest time of one year, on the basis of reasonable doubt and the real danger of its abuse. And a permanent confiscation of weapons with the right to compensation can be determined or should only be determined and based solely on a final and judicial verdict because it is the constitutional right of every citizen to have his or her own property. We believe this is the only proper procedure and we believe Mr. Secretary of State that you will seriously consider complying with this law with European norms and constitutional rights on the availability of ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89161	Thank you. At 16,50, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89162	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Let us, on behalf of the HSS Club, take note of this final proposal of the Weapons Act in the third reading. To begin with, the total number of amendments that have been accepted are five amendments from the HSS's amendment club, which was included in the Final Proposal of the Arms Act, and if only that fact could be taken into account, we could conclude that the HSS Club should be satisfied with this bill, the final draft of the law. However, I must say that one significant part of the amendment and that debate that the HSS Club held in previous discussions did not fully find a place in the final draft of the law. And because of that, you've got it on your benches. The HSS Club has written an additional nine amendments and I hope there will be an opportunity to discuss them because we think they are founded. In the introduction, I would like to say that, of course, an immediate question is raised which is the bigger problem? Is the bigger problem legal or illegal? Where the main focus of the debate should be, and in what sense are we, this is just a repeated repeat of the position of the club HSS that in nature is exactly an illegal weapon which needs to be solved. A problem that exists in society. Statistics are on the record. Inexorable. It again defeats and constantly warns that all the negativity caused by armed practices, from suicides, from the use of firearms is 99% of the illegal owner or government. So what is evident and what is most important we are fighting, we are afraid that the rigorousity and complexity that is dominant in this bill, in this concept of the law, will not give exactly the results that we hold important. And I'm afraid that this rigorousity and consistency of the procedure, especially those relating to the owners of legal weapons, cannot be dealt with with by the consequences that do not come from that part. Because the consequences of especially the negative ones don't come from those who have legal weapons. It does not stem from those hunting groups that are organised and which, regardless of the fact that the Hunting Union of Croatia should be organised differently and should take different care of the area it deals with, but still do not result in this major problem. It comes from the other part of the law that's actually almost not being treated. And those are the ones who illegally own weapons. We should be honest when we talk about it. I think since World War I, and especially since the Homeland War, there have been weapons held by homes, which people hold, they have as symbols, they have them as belonging. They have them as something they don't want to forget. And I think the battle with those citizens based on sanctioning is a lost battle. So sanctioning as a way to solve this problem of illegal weapons, I'm afraid it neither yields results nor can ultimately produce results. It is therefore evident that another route must be found. One different way to make contact with these citizens. Because it's primarily about making contact with these groups, individuals who have such illegal means. Of course, everything that is sophisticated and what has been extremely complex was in the process, whether it is in the content itself, does not necessarily have to produce good results. He doesn't have to. Because there are, of course, experiences when it comes to the ballistics of legal firearms, especially in the United States, which have not produced the necessary results. Who did not give that, that desired goal when it comes to controlling that part, again speaking legal, legal means because of course not only in Croatian terms he is minor because he illegally seems safe, the relationship is certainly at least 1:3. If these are 370 grand, there's at least 3 times as many. But of course that's how we understand this law. It must fight and cope with reality, with the fact that we want to bring it into line with European Union directives. It's usually a good phrase like this, so it's a little bit of us, and it doesn't realize that it's also something that's extremely good in itself. But it has become one of the usual sentences that wants to be alluded to primarily in order for us all to accept the law together because it bears the name European or P.Z.E. Of course, I don't want to say that it's not worth taking care of, but of course it's not in itself and it can't be enough. What is interesting and what in some way breaks or breaks into those who are legalists and who will participate or will be subject to the implementation of this law, they are practically, those who have legalists have the status of having a car. They have to pass the technical exam. They have to pay for that technical fee, and you know they have to pay for it, and they have to pay for it. And it has to be paid. But they also have to pay a whole series of fees. These fees must be renewed in their payment. But it's not enough to pay just that, for the funds that have it they have to pay for themselves. Of course we, we have given an amendment that in some ways opposes the fact that citizens need to be additionally burdened. It refers to that weather, weather feature that health tests of the holder should be checked every, every 5 years. We hold that for an extremely or very understandable reason, which is that it greatly increases the material costs of those who are legal, who want to be legal, that this should really be returned to a scale of 10 years. Or, at the very least, up to the certain age of a man's life, to 5 years. Because what are you going to do to a 25-year-old man every five years to check his medical condition? It's almost not done in any major structures, associations or anything else. And it's costing a lot of money. Furthermore, as far as the amendments themselves are concerned, we hold that in Article 8(2) that, without any problem, paragraph 2 can and should be deleted, and that is the authorisation for the supply of ammunition. Why? Well, because it is simply built into the regulations of all European countries. The supply of ammunition should not be prescribed as a condition. Why would she? It only additionally burdens, additionally collects, makes it more difficult, but on the other hand it creates another market, a gray market that is ten times stronger in Croatia than this regular market. Why? Well, because it's harder to get ammo at the end than just guns, so I think, and there's nowhere in it. And we're talking about compliance with European norms. Well, it has nothing to do with any ammunition supply, ammunition with weapons supply. That's ridiculous. So here I am, my colleagues, alluding, these are the points of view of all those who have weapons, who know weapons, those who have no weapons. So something that's just weird that hasn't been adopted before. You don't have to, you don't have to. Furthermore, in Article 11(3) and (4), the word “five” is replaced by the word “ten”. According to experiences, not only the Hunting Alliance, which numbers some 50,000 active hunters in its membership, and which does not record suffering that would cause health problems. We don't think there's any need for this deadline to be reduced to five years, not just for the cost, but again for the great administrative procedure. So I'm going to say one more thing because these health checks are going on at one formal level anyway, especially for that structure. It is important for you to pay, whether you are healthy or not, if you have paid 100% you will be healthy. Because that's, unfortunately, so. Whether it will be different and whether it will be more rigorous and whether it will really lead to a rescue health check, to end up in human function. Then it would be good if every five years if we had a truly organized systematic examination that would really bring a man, if God didn't let him be told that he was sick and that he was going to go through further tests and save him. That would be good, but this is kind of selfless, and I'm going to say that I've been through these tests and I haven't seen much of it looking at me. It is, therefore, a bureaucratic act, not so much about determining a health condition. In the end, the hunting alliances are very well understood at the table by who's healthy, who's sick. As soon as they sit at the table, drink, talk, they simply locate who is no longer for their company and who is. It's a natural selection. The third amendment of Article 12(2), following the correct word on the hunting test, shall delete the point of the point, add the point and the words “by proof of membership of the hunting association and the hunting card”. I think we've kind of accepted that article. The board discussed it with a parent, and I think it's acceptable. Article 19(2) of the wording and the authorisation for the supply of ammunition are already deleted for that article that I have previously explained. The following amendment in Article 21(1) of the word ‘replace by a period of ten years’ is re-absorbed to that extension, i.e. a reduction of ten to five. No excuse, the proposed deadline of ten years is considered an optimal time limit for the issue of an armed list. And Article 23 is deleted in full. Why? The proposed provisions in Article 23 are not necessary because experience so far shows that no country has such a solution. So we're going back to the explanation of what we said and it's obvious that for hunters, it might be possible to install a provision for hunters that the supply is only possible with the representation of the hunting card. We think it's also important to install. Article 27(1) of the word “arms” is also added to the words “arms”. It is considered necessary and ammunition to cover this provision In Article 80, paragraph 2, the word “sports” is added to the word “hundreds” and the word “sports” is added to the word “sports”. [[The President's intrusion: Well, thank you, now there's been a shortage of more ammunition.]] In fact, it is believed that civil shooting sites should be allowed to target minors who are actively engaged in sports and hunting shooting. It's about sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89163	Thank you very much. Thank you. No more amendments There's no hunting story. [[Intruder: Thank God there isn't!]] Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89164	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague said that medical examinations for holding and holding and carrying weapons of formal nature and if you pay, you're certainly capable of what's absolutely not true. Indeed, it offends all the doctors who participate in the examinations, and besides the specialist in medicine the psychiatrist, psychologist and ocularists are involved, and we are really simplifying things. Here there is a rule that clearly defines you must have the approval to do such checks have clear counterindications, and surely these counterindications are somewhat less than when it comes to guards or guards. I mean, it's not at all correct to say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89165	Correction, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89166	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed representative said that there's a small society of hunters who are better diagnostics than doctors and examinations. That's not true. If the hunter's company is better for a pot, but doctors believe they're better diagnosed. They don't have to pull every trace. They're not treating the findings. They treat a complete man, especially who has a weapon. He immediately sees if you and you trusted them very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89167	We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89168	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we see that the Law of Weapons is in the third reading, which tells us how important this law is. ... We see how hard colleagues have debated the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, we must also say, unfortunately, that we are often and unlovingly reminded of events, so that every little thing happens that these weapons are being misused and then destroying the lives of both sides. I will, of course, put this law in more order in both legal and illegal weapons. Here I will look at only the parts that are close to me, which is Article 11 when it comes to the examination of persons for holding and carrying arms or for guards. Because these medical examinations are carried out by the team medical specialists with, as I have stated, psychiatrists, psychologists and occultists whether it is private practice, and now it is said that it is also a commercial society, which is in line with the current organisation. When it comes to, here, there's been a lot of debate that, for five years, that's a little bit and that's a big expense. I think five years is really a good time, and if it were a big expense, I wouldn't agree that 400 kunas how much a medical examination costs compared to everything a hunter has, a expense, when he deals with such a hobby, then surely it's a negligible, very negligible cost, and it's very necessary. Here I would rely on this one part that says that, in fact, that the chosen doctor must have prior results of the selected doctor. However, each doctor, means the chosen others, and if they have some knowledge that they may be contraindications to hold arms, that they are, that they are obliged and reported. That's certainly fine and the laws so far have been regulated for drivers. And when it comes to holding and carrying guns, I must admit that it was rarely applied, and that it should certainly be done. But these criminal provisions that are mentioned here, where doctors are first... like they're the biggest problem in all of this when it comes to holding and carrying guns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's really appropriate and that this is going to be punished and jailed for up to 30 days that it really isn't necessary. Here, in the name of the HDZ Club, it is also pointed out that it is not really defined in which way the doctor will report any of them when it comes to holding and carrying weapons. That's really a question to ask. If there is any diagnosis that is suspected to be a contraindication for either holding or carrying weapons or when it comes to guards and security guards, then it will mean applying to the competent authority. But you can ask someone if they have a weapon, he can eventually deny it to you. And, and finally, pay the fine, let's face it, and you can still go to prison for up to 30 days which is really not appropriate to the medical profession and their responsibilities at work. Here when it comes to security guards, when it comes to private security, we have to say that there is a special rule for them when determining the general and special health capacity, that according to the Croatian security guard there are about 15 to 17 thousand of them, that 10 thousand of them have been licensed, and only a thousand and 500 of them were examined last year, which is a very small percentage of which 2.7 were incompetent. Of course, when it comes to security guards, and when it comes to guards, we see that there are often victims of the violence that is happening, whether they themselves are using weapons, that in this respect they should pay greater attention to their mental and physical abilities, and certainly also when selecting candidates that there are and that doctors should have very clear criteria, since health conditions often are not as simple as that. There was a lot of talk here about Article 48. I don't think there's anything in this article that's controversial to me, and I don't know why some colleagues are so concerned that they're going to take away a weapon if even before the end of the administrative, criminal, criminal procedure, if that weapon could be misused and it's listed here, it means drinking, drugs, other behavior, domestic violence, then endangering the public order, and so on. I think it's totally fine. How many times have we had reports of violence or any other misbehavior that no weapon was taken away? And then that very question came up, so why didn't it happen in that case? I think this article 48 allows it. And that it wasn't permanently seized weapons, it was until the trial was over. If the suspicions of the truth are found, such a weapon will be taken away and I think it is all right and that this article should remain that way. Here, this is my little contribution to what I wanted to say about the Arms Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89169	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This law is written for the third time, and yet there are incredible formulas in it. Immediately in Article 1, the last paragraph states: “This law lists certain nouns as male, and they are used as neutral for male and female.". So it's using a masculinum that's used as a neutral to mark femininum. Well, this sentence is a complete nonsense. It's like Secretary Kirin dictated it directly into the law. Article 3 gives the scope of the law and says what is considered a weapon. But then it lists only firearms, air and gas weapons, but it doesn't cover cold weapons. However, two articles further state in Article 5 the concepts and cold weapons that are then defined. Well, now is the cold weapon a weapon within the meaning of this law or not a weapon? If it is a weapon, then perhaps it should be listed in Article 3 of this Law, where it is said what is considered a weapon in the sense of this law. And if it's not a weapon, then brother doesn't need it in Article 5. What's he doing there? It's a mess. Which this law, however much more so, would be to look for pearls under this Law and find them, but let's get to the more serious things. What does this law regulate? Among other things, he regulates the right of natural persons to possess and carry weapons. And why is that? What do the citizens need guns for? The law says self-defense. But what is the state of general security if citizens themselves have to defend themselves with more firearms? When you read in the paper that someone with some kind of heroic defense used firearms, of course not in the war but in the peacetime refused to attack himself and his family? I never do. But that's why every day we can read that someone was shot for some kind of banal reason, that someone drunk with a Kalashnikov had a half-bird because they didn't let him drink anymore, that someone else ordered some kind of song that he didn't like, because someone told him to stop yelling, that someone looked at him or didn't look at him at him at all or without any reason. That's not the kind of reason you need. That's news from our black chronicle. Not self-defense with firearms, but assault, often completely indecipherable. The proposer tells citizens that weapons are needed for their own safety and thus acknowledges that general security is bad and that he himself as a proposing, as a ministry, cannot raise that security level. No wonder that security is weak, that it is not better when Minister Kirin does not follow leads of crime, but rather traces of web service to get information about the SDP, and then nothing yet caused me to admit it, be careful yourself. No one's asked him any questions, no one's ever asked him, no one's accused or asked him anything, he's going to go to the press, and he's saying that we've come to know about the SDP, and we're following up on a trail of Internet servers, and he says it's still a nice mother, and that's not according to what we're going to do in their campaign. The state of general security is therefore catastrophic, the minister does not raise the level of security, he is destroying it, because what security those citizens who use the Internet can expect now, they are therefore directly threatened, they are threatened by Minister Kirin, he is ordering them to follow you, we will follow you, and it is nothing to do with everything that will work for you. Who's threatening the safety of the citizens? All those who break the law. The law violates those in "Brodosplit", and they threaten the safety of citizens. If not otherwise, then because they estranged money that would welcome the state. The Ministry of the Interior, however, said there was nothing there. Interpol had to confirm what counterpart Marin Jurjevic warned for months that this was about top crime, warning by the way and who was involved in this crime. Okay. Recognising therefore that the general security situation is poor, Minister Kirin allows citizens to carry firearms and defend themselves as they know and can. Obviously, the police are unable to do the job the citizens are paying for, i.e. to ensure the safety of the citizens. Who would, in fact, do they want the citizens with guns? Who should even have the right to carry, to hold a weapon? Army, police, guards and gardens. They need weapons to increase the safety of everyone else. They're the ones protecting the safety of the citizens. Weapon is too much and legal in Croatia, and especially illegal, and if we really want to strengthen the safety of citizens, then let's not tell them how to get weapons, so defend yourself when someone attacks you and say nothing at the same time to protect them from those who illegally own weapons and who can attack them. There was a colleague, Rosic, who spoke about this article in 48th, which is one, I think, that 48th, one of the better articles of this Law, is one of the better to suspect anyone, even before the end of any criminal or criminal proceedings, but there is a suspicion that he might use firearms, that weapon immediately withdraws. It's instantaneous. That's one of the good measures. To reduce the amount of weapons on the street in private possessions, especially to prevent those who, for any reason or for any illegal behaviour suspected of using firearms, pose a danger to others. There are only a few articles about illegal weapons in the transitional and final provisions, and that is one new amnesty. We know that these deadlines for reporting illegal weapons continued for six months, six more, six more, and six more, and then finally, once the line was drawn, and it was said to be the last one, they had to report the weapon by that date. In fact, Article 98 represents a new amnesty. He now extends the deadline by 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Law. So when this law enters into force and those who illegally possess weapons will again be amnesty for that illegality and that within six months, and they are already in the area of illegality under the applicable law. So we're making their illegal position legal again, for what? For illegal weapons possession. It doesn't seem personal to me, and it doesn't seem to me to be one move that will enhance the safety of all citizens. And finally, the war trophies, the spoils of war. Finally, it's a good weapon that needs to be disabled, but now what's the deadline of a year? Well, look, it's a year of next uncertainty. Well, that's three months enough. All right, let's keep the trophy weapons, the spoils of war. But you know what a trophy weapon is. You can't fire a trophy weapon. You need to take out that needle, I don't know what, what mechanisms and that weapon can't be used. Therefore, this law did not fulfill that purpose. It will not significantly increase citizens' security because it has not resolved these basic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89171	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. She's gone. He's losing his word. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I felt the need to just give possibly another clarification and comment on Mr. Stazic's allegations. I will try to really speak the language of the facts and show what is the situation in some other countries, or what has been the practice in the Republic of Croatia so far. First of all, this kind of return of arms to legalisation or restitution is not the first time this law has provided for. Namely, all governments have him more or less than '92. By 2002 they had spent, so there were several actions to hand over illegal weapons in '92, '93. Most of the time, by 2002, there were six actions. With both the former government and the interior ministry having had an action "Good-bye weapons" that began on February 22nd 2001 and lasted until December 31st 2002. Therefore, it was also an action carried out by the former government or the former ministry, the leadership of the interior ministry. And the results of these actions are also not negligible because it has been in the period since 30 October of '92. until 2 August '99. A total of 27 thousand back 15 pieces of automatic firearms, a million 603 pieces of firearms, 2 million 778 thousand 952 rounds of ammunition and 3 thousand 852 kilos of explosives. Also, between February 22nd and December 31st 2002, 6000 574 pieces of automatic firearms, 67 thousand 333 pieces of spraying weapons, 2 million 301000 rounds of ammunition and 3000 748kg of explosives were returned. Therefore, this is not a first-time action. It is not an action that has not produced results so far, and we expect that this action will certainly produce both legalisation within 6 months and a permanent return of illegal weapons. As for the number of firearms and practices in other countries, there is no specific rule and practice is different from country to country. So I'm just going to say a few basic data that, say, in the Czech Republic, a search for a gun license should be made two types of confirmations, a certificate related to a person and a certificate related to a weapon. By the way, in the Czech Republic, 313 thousand citizens are licensed and 627 thousand weapons are registered. In Ireland, general policy is that citizens are forbidden to own guns primarily guns except in cases of rifle use and primarily for hunting purposes. Hungary. The preparation of a new legislation aimed at making it more difficult for individuals to have weapons. The possession of weapons can only be granted for self-defense purposes. Some of the conditions for obtaining permits are the existence of objective circumstances in which there is a need for self-defense, evidence of mental physical ability to use weapons, evidence that the apartment or house is suitable for holding arms. Sweden may be the most interesting example. In Sweden, there is a minimum use of weapons, but the largest number of weapons there is registered in view of the number of inhabitants. In fact, there are approximately 2 million weapons registered to the 9 million inhabitants of Sweden, 80% of which for hunting rifles and about 20% of guns for a gun. However, the attitude of the state and police towards those holding arms is very strict. It is very strict legislation to issue a gun license while the permit can be very easily withdrawn for many reasons. It's enough for an individual to be drunk in public, aggressively behave in a drive under the influence of alcohol, publicizing the hunting of protected species and so forth. Requisition of a licence is only possible after five years and even more stringent criteria for authorisation are then applied. In Sweden, licenses are very often taken away. There are exceptional and strict criteria for the protection of weapons. Controls are often carried out and even the slightest errors in the protection of weapons result in the withdrawal of weapons permits. In Great Britain, the strictest legislation is in force. Individuals, private people can't own guns. The hunting weapon has also been nearly eradicated by a law that almost made hunting impossible. With Great Britain, Denmark has the most restrictive regulations. Therefore, it is evident that the state's attitude towards weapons is different from the state to the state and that legislative regulation depends on many elements and many facts. I would agree with what Mr. Cain said if it were safe and mental because it is evident that a Swedish who would be said to be the most armed nation has a very small number of weapons abuses and the carrying out of the most serious crimes with weapons, and apparently there is both the responsibility and the conscience of individuals. Obviously, it is the impact of society through all pores starting with school, starting with the civil sector, starting with state institutions, starting with the church, probably from all those institutions that make up the state. And they all influence that holding arms is understood as an obligation and responsibility rather than as a means of boasting and putting problems on the state or other people around them. And he would just also comment on what Mr. Stazic said to read from this that Croatia is a very insecure state. We have here data on the number of crimes for the City of Zagreb where they are compared to similar or similar criminal acts in other European metropolises or cities similar to Zagreb. So it turns out, from the statistics, that of the 13 cities observed in Zagreb is one of the safest cities. In fact, the city of Zagreb has 2000 237 criminal acts on 100,000 inhabitants and therefore belongs to the safest cities. If there is a daily dynamic of crimes in Zagreb, an average of 67 crimes will occur daily, while, for example, there are 298 crimes in Budapest, in Prague 244, in Athens 153, Ankara 82, etc. Murders if they are also seen Zagreb has an average of about 15 murders a year while in Ankara there are 146 in Vienna and Riga by 56, in Athens 43 etc. Of course, I am not saying this in order to say that I do not need to continue to take serious action to improve the security situation, in order for the crimes to be less and less, in order for everyone in society to be more responsible for the respect of the law than I am just saying that it may not be good to create an impression, one picture that Croatia is a particularly insecure state because I believe that Croatia is a secure state but that fact needs to motivate us all together to make everything possible together even more secure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89173	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89174	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, it's not without reason the Secretary General of the United Nations said a few years ago a small weapon of great trouble and, unfortunately, it's true and fact. According to the United Nations, there are more than 600 million pieces of small and light weapons in the world. Of the 49 major conflicts that took place around the world in the 1990s, 47 were largely conducted using small and light weapons, according to some reports. It is estimated that this global weapon category is responsible for more than half a million people killed annually, or about 300 thousand killed in armed conflicts, etc. low intensity or "low intensity conflict" which we have witnessed mostly in these areas. But also about 200,000 murders and suicides with firearms. A small weapon is a big problem. Not only this law, not only legislation, but the problem that we are facing in establishing a legislative framework that could regulate all these issues in a way that reduces security risks for all of us in our environment. They're also tied to language problems. Unfortunately, I have said this many times, the Croatian language is not sufficiently developed specifically in that technical aspect and does not follow those distinctions that are clearly pointed out in the name... So a small weapon and I'd say light weapons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a big difference. Finally, Council Directive 91477 clearly speaks of category A which definitely does not belong to the category of arms, especially not light weapons, but is indeed about light weapons. It says here explosive military misails and... Definitely this type of weapon is the main security problem not us here in the Republic of Croatia but the main security problem of the modern world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the kind of light weapons that unfortunately enables the kind of terrorist action that threatens security in the wider range, Milan Fagot,... as well as other easily portable portable anti-aircraft weapons Singer game etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the Council of Europe directives and in accordance with what you wrote under category A, it is important to point out that this goes beyond the scope of this law and would ask the Proposer to be established because this type of weaponry is regulated by some other important international contracts. So, some other important international contracts that we have ratified in this House such as "non proliferation misail technology" means banning the proliferation of missile systems,... Agreement, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when they are legislatively seeking to shape these things, then I think it was very good, especially in the future, co-operation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was responsible for the adoption or proposing to the Croatian Assembly of these international contracts. If we're talking about that category of gun military misails, you've spoken to the representatives of the Department of Defense then really any legal sanctions of the type 15 thousand kunas are completely inappropriate to the security threat that this type of weapon carries. Well, in the end, I said several times the cheapest of that kind of weaponry especially from this group of misails is from $100,000 to more. Therefore, it is a security problem that is not only an internal security issue but an international security problem, the proliferation of such weapons is a very important and security problem that is concerned by various international agreements and should have been kind of referred to when this law was being laid down. The issue of illegal spread of small and light weapons again has dealt thoroughly with the UN Assembly for all these reasons. In any case, what I would like to emphasise in relation to the previous reading you have made significant improvements especially within this category A where classification is clearer, more consistent and corresponds to what is the intensity of that group of weapons. However, there is much in this complex law to come as part of a job that will certainly be done by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I would say that some proposals and contributions from these discussions in the Croatian Parliament will also be accepted. What is missing is definitely to get a better, more complete, so I would say more competent laws is a profession, and in this sense I really well propose that some people who really work professionally their whole lives as scientists and as professors problems of internal ballistics, external ballistics, light weapons and weapons are consulted to get this quality law. I also said the Council of Europe directives are not ideal and we can have observations on them. Therefore, in this situation where we are in place, I hold that tomorrow, in the framework of the vote, this law will be passed but certainly work to improve the legislative framework in cooperation, as I said between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a job ahead. And another brief observation. When we talk about this kind of problem in general, it's the weapons and mental health of the owner. Because weapons in the hands of people who aren't mentally healthy pose a security threat. And that's the problem. However, mental health control is definitely not a question of this law or belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. And I'm going to say that these problems are very complex and not trivial. You can very easily check the blood count for an individual, I don't know, X-ray and so on. And as for mental abilities, measured, reliable and predictable functioning in stress conditions, in trauma conditions, and so on is a non-trivial and complex issue which, which we will have to deal with, I would say all together not only here in the Republic of Croatia but also much wider. Mental health and weapons in some way pose a threat to that moment if such small weapons are in the hands of persons whose behaviour cannot be controlled, who have no characteristics of responsibility, predictability and care for common security. And here I would say in the end that the proposer, or the Ministry of the Interior, has made significant efforts in order to put in place the necessary measure of order that guarantees our security, further work through cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the profession, indeed, in the common interest, and I would say that the Republic of Croatia can give its contribution and to European security because the legislative framework within the European Community is in no way more quality than we will adopt tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89175	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. When discussing this kind of law, therefore, the law that has for the subject of a weapon, a device, an object that kills whether or not it is, whether or not it is used. Who, then, should serve to remove from himself an illegal attack that cannot be removed in a different way or his abuse. Murders. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that the weapons held by citizens either legally or illegally are here, it was well-absorbed by fellow Stazic in his debate, saying that there is no single example that the weapon would be legal, regardless of whether it was legal or not, and that I am not talking about illegal, so it was used in a way that some citizen removed the same or similar attack from himself. So such a compulsive force that he couldn't resist, but by using weapons. That's not the case. It's always been about murder, robbery or accidents when children were accidentally injured, innocent, and these children, please first of all, of those owners most often parents. Sometimes here when we're working on, we're talking about it, and then the question is whether it's about irresponsible parents who, like, stop talking, recklessly delaying and holding guns. It's about one big danger. Such, such a thing, such a single object is per se dangerous. And the proposer himself and the government is aware of that and is saying how many more old weapons there are in the possession of our citizens who certainly wouldn't have passed this ballistic test and who in themselves are the very existence of danger. It is also well apostrophe here in an explanation when it comes to the state, the monitoring of the state of crime and the movement of crime by the Government. Resort Ministry, where it has been noted that the problem of illegal possession of the production, trade and smuggling of weapons and explosive substances in the Republic of Croatia is still very current. It's a real finding and we don't need to, we don't have to compare with Austria or Austria or with, it won't solve our problems or comfort us. We are called here first of all not to hide behind problems. Let's not put our heads in the sand like a noose because we're all at risk with this kind of thing. Now what was required of this final bill? To be much more restrictive, that and what can no longer be put to rest, but in any case to tighten control but also the possibility of getting weapons. It has already been stated, this provision of Article 48, which is highlighted as a single fuse, so that the weapons would not be given as easily to the citizens as we have so far. Namely, we can't escape... The fact is that at the last moment, the crime rate is precisely in these most dangerous crimes, murders, devastations all those crimes that apply force and most often by using weapons or threatening to rise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some other types of crime are stagnating, but these brutal crimes that once were rare have brought Europe closer to us and cannot be comforted by this. They became this way, unfortunately, of life. And it's almost gone, it's no longer news that there's been some kind of robbery. We also have, we talked about this danger long ago, in the 1990s, when the country was threatened and later attacked. And then a little bit attacked. So we had a strange situation that had never happened in our society and not been recorded in the sociology of Croatia that began to happen? That their own sons attacked their mothers. Until then, there was an unrecorded case by 1990 that the son had killed his mother. Unmarked. Nothing, not even a brother's sister. It may be rarities, but that's the case. After this, therefore, liberalisation but also possibilities, but ultimately we must agree with this conclusion by the promoter himself of illegal arms imports, namely the acquisition of weapons that there was no problem in obtaining weapons. Therefore, it was commendable and that earlier message that was in the ministry “Goodbye to weapons. ” Well, on that trail with one pacifist and ultimately a threat to a weapon that lurks in all of us and that carrier and the owner of his closest environment, and then to talk about other citizens. Many would not have used that weapon if they had not carried it with them, but would have solved conflict situations in society in some other way. Thus, this culture of tolerance, behavior, the very fact that someone has a weapon puts him at risk of being used, or abused. But at the most, at best, to overcome these limits of resolving these human relationships. The weapon is not a toy, but unfortunately we teach a child in ordinary shops and there are still toys of guns – guns, guns. So, since we were little, we've been fostering this culture and the fascination with weapons. So we can argue very harshly but we must be intolerant of the general desire and desire, but also of raising children to this worshiped object called weaponry, i.e. A gun. And what fellow Cosic said well, a small object, a small weapon, a big problem. What is also apostrophe of fellow Stazic seems worth repeating to me. The safety of citizens is the greatest value of every society, so it should be ours. We can't carry a message in the first articles of this law to citizens that it's their right to self-defense. The right to self-defense is when they fail all other possible, the first bodies to be called upon to protect the citizens. But please, if there are even threats from the state that they're going to be pulling out in a pre-election campaign something that will discredit the opposition, what security it is. The safety is then that at the very moment when there is a suspect, let alone a reasonable doubt triggers the bodies of a repressive apparatus and that the matter is being examined all by procedure. But you see, gentlemen, what's the latest so a few hours ago is a further threat. I think the government's representatives will be surprised here, and it's coming from the ruling party. We have to say this is the end of the SDP lagoon. Oh, great, gentlemen. So the weapon is yours and we're savages, I just don't know if it's any more tiny or big teeth, low or high. You haven't defined that yet. That's from the last press of power, and I repeat the end of the SDP lotostay. It's a really great message to discuss this important and important law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89177	Order! Honorable representative of Alenko Kosisa Chichin Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89178	I thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, as in my previous discussions on this law, I will look back on the part that applies in the world where the Arms Act is in the light of domestic violence, so I will only make a few remarks on Articles 10 and 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. But only before that would I say this law has been since '92. There have been eight changes in every year with the purpose of achieving the greatest control over illegal weapons in the possession of citizens in such a way that we have allowed the registration of weapons without any designation of origin. So-called legalization with which de facto was actually made possible by handing over forbidden firearms. In view of the fact that there has been a war conflict in these areas that has always led to a great fluctuation of weapons, such a policy has been justified for some years. However, I have warned of this before in my discussions. I think that time's up, it's over. Legalize existing illegal weapons and thus not fulfilling theirs, without questioning its origin is irresponsible and of course immoral. I don't think it's necessary to automatically prosecute those who return illegally unregistered weapons, but it should be taken into account that this weapon may have been committed as to what kind of crime it should be. That is why I propose and believe it is the only correct way to re-examine such a returned weapon in order to determine whether or not it has been committed any kind of crime. Namely, people who have guns at home from the time of the war, if they haven't used it for illegal purposes, these checks will have no reason to fear. On the other hand, those who robbed, threatened, or wounded, and killed have reason to fear. They can no longer forgive such things, and they have no problem with the repurchasing of weapons in case they are used very elegantly and unpunishedly to return it to the police. I also said that in the last debate. I repeat that now. Such an act under the present circumstances could be equated with the forgiveness of crimes that may have been committed with such a new legalized weapon. However, criminals are thus facilitated by the process of solving incriminating weapons wherever they throw such weapons, there is always the possibility of finding them after a certain time, so the investigation determines whether it was used in some crime. Always except in case he surrenders himself to the police because she doesn't question his origins. What an absurd! I'm saying something like that could be justified as long as there was a reasonable doubt that the vast majority of unregistered weapons came from war and were not used for illegal purposes. Today, on the other hand, we need to reject such doubts and face reality. In Croatia, illegal weapons, even if not only are used illegally today, are mostly used for illegal purposes, and this should be put to an end once. The only logical justification for this regulation of the situation I see in the complexity of implementing quality regulation. But it's not about the law of not knowing the joints or the paradises, it's about the Law of Weapons and it takes away and destroys lives. In such matters, executive power should not hide behind the pure legalization of existing weapons. The legal time is over. We need to get the guns off the street today. The basic characteristics of this law that should be highlighted and commended and firmly stood behind them are that citizens who are being prosecuted for domestic violence or are already convicted will not be allowed to possess weapons. And what I emphasized during the second reading, unfortunately, I have to say today. In this proposal, legal standards often do not comply with the real situation on the ground. So, for example. Article 10(2) of point 4 states that a natural person will be able to obtain a permit for arms in the case, and I am now quoting: "... that he is not legally punished for the offence, or that there is no procedure for breach in the area of public order and peace and other laws on which violations with elements of violence have been prescribed, in particular for the offence in the area of domestic violence or for the protection of domestic violence have been imposed on him.". We are all aware that domestic violence has much more than it is reported. And there, unfortunately, our hands are completely tied. But there are also a huge number of reports of domestic violence that have simply not been processed, at least they are not until their tragic end. The most common sentence that is going through statements, interviews with abused women, of course, if they were so fortunate that they managed to survive all of this together, is always the following: "The police said they couldn't do anything until they did something concrete.". In addition, point 5 of the same article states that a natural person will be able to obtain a permit for arms in the event that there are no other circumstances that indicate that the weapon could be misused, abused, and especially more frequent and excessive alcohol consumption, intoxication of drugs or other stunning means, disturbed family relations, breach of hunting rules and sports shooting, etc. I'd like to draw your attention to the "disturbed family relationship" syntagma. How do you determine that? Who's to say that? When can we say that in a particular case, this is about disturbed family relationships? Article 13(4) simply states: "The existence of the conditions laid down in Article 10(2) of point 5 of this Act shall be determined by a police officer in accordance with the powers laid down in the Police Law on which the note is made up.". It may sound funny to some that representatives in the Croatian Parliament are so insistent on these provisions, but in today's Croatia where a spouse rapes a wife daily, where women fall down stairs or force them to smuggle and distribute drugs can tell you with 100% certainty that these women do not sound ridiculous. The legislator may be satisfied that a conscientious or not police officer will determine the circumstances of the family but no one asks the question in case a police officer does not do his job properly. This is not about poorly completed paperwork, it's about women's lives, and very often children. What if a police officer isn't objective for reasons like that? Does he know the defendant? What about smaller places where everyone knows each other anyway, where mostly the hand washes and everything else? What disastrous consequences can be seen from truly numerous examples of murders and suicides in front of the Children's Home on Nazor Street, and in the presence of a young child of his own age to a triple murder in Petrinja that occurred because someone did not realize that she was being issued by a mentally unstable person. Although the applicant did not accept amendments to extend the validity of the medical examination to 10 years, which is absolutely commendable, I believe that the deadline prescribed by this proposal is still too long for 5 years. It's simply too much of a role in people's lives, and that deadline should be at least 3 years. However, the value of human life in this sense is unfortunately not recognized by the promoter in this third reading. Although this draft law is more qualitative than the current laws in force and we are certainly approaching European legislation, we must not be fooled by how, say the Road Safety Act, that this law will reduce the number of people killed, in this case those killed by weapons. The weapon is not a problem for Croatia, it is a problem for the whole world. And while the whole world has been working for decades to reduce the amount of weapons, four and a half million of us have been watching how to get one of the weapons. Slovenians, unlike us, often issue a license to hold arms. A natural person must prove before obtaining that authorisation that his personal threat is to the extent that his insurance would require firearms. On the other hand, what should certainly be commended in this proposal is an increase in fines that really need to be drastic in order to have any effect. It must also be done to promote the media by reducing the amount of weapons, as well as the intensive education of those who possess it. It's the only way we're gonna reduce the number of armed victims, and that's actually supposed to be our goal. As representatives of the people, we are most sensitive to the subject of the budget and everything that has to do with money, and we often forget that we are just like these representatives among the most responsible for human safety. And of course, how much of this law of positive movements it has brought on paper is an extremely high chance that this law will not be implemented until the end of this term, i.e. that it will be carried out fairly poorly in the coming months. This is not a fiction, it is a warning from many European advisers and representatives when discussing the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And while three or two years ago it could still have been pushed on the basis of just passing good laws today, we can't really do that anymore. That's not a bad idea. However, this is a benevolent warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89179	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89180	Thank you very much. Here I will begin with this final word of Mrs. Kosha Chichinh, because what you and all the other MPs have said, I have seen as well-meaning remarks that we all make this law even better together. I have seen and read most of the amendments, and this is how ad hoc can say that most of them seem acceptable to me, and that indeed they are all together and invested precisely with the purpose and purpose of making this proposed text of the law even better. I did not read the statistics from which it was apparent that the situation in some neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia was worse because of the fact that we would calm our own conscience and that we would move on rather than think that this fact that statistics says that the Republic of Croatia is safer than most other countries should be a motive for us all to do everything together to make this situation even better. It's perfectly clear to me that this law is not perfect. However, I believe, and I also gave this to read from the debate of most MPs that it is one small step forward that we will make further efforts to make the state of security when it comes to weapons and its conduct and its abuse and use to make the state of security even better. I also agree with those parliamentary deputies who said that only by improving the legislative framework will we not do everything but practically 365 days a year appeal, but literally and literally, to everyone in society, starting with all those who work in the education system, who work in the media, who work in the civil sector, who work in sports clubs, who work in state institutions, that we are all responsible for the weapons being more responsible, more serious and mature, and that all together we make it really all possible for illegal, illegal weapons to be as little as possible because it is clear that the greatest number of criminal acts are made precisely by these illegal weapons. I'd just say here you may sound like an excuse, but also driven by debate and guest... Chichin-Shain and some other MPs that maybe there's room for arbitration in the role of police in assessing who's fit to hold, carry guns, and who's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I will also warn the very delicate position of a police officer who has to go out into the field and who has to assess whether or not a person meets the conditions for holding arms, whether there has been domestic violence or not, whether there has been a disturbance of public order and peace. In the end, we heard here from some parliamentary advocates of the remark that there have been cases of abuse of the reporting of neighbors, hunters, shooters, a man who has, on any other basis of weapons, that he has been reported by his tenently and maliciously by neighbors, he is merely the basis of that tentious and malicious application that has been lost without a weapon temporarily, and some even permanently and this really makes the position and role of the police very delicate, and we will do our utmost to make sure that this is the very same implementing act where the police can do their job, primarily in order not to have a place of arbitration, so that there is no room for free conduct, free interpretation of the law, and in order to avoid any accidents where police can do their job, primarily preventively. Here I am thanking everyone who participated in the debate once again because I have indeed seen all the discussions as well-intentioned, constructive, and I say it has been read out of the debates and from the amendments table that the amendments to the proposed text of the law can be done already through the amendments, but tomorrow through the vote, and I am sure that after tomorrow's vote, we will get a law that will be better, which will provide a better legislative framework, that in this area of keeping, use and abuse of positions, steps are being made forward to make us all more together secure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89181	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Arms Act. We've got a table of amendments that's in front of all the MPs. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Amendment of one Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89183	Amendment one doesn't get adopted. Namely, the authorisation for the supply of ammunition or the authorisation for the supply of ammunition comes from Directive 4771/91 of the European Union and Amendment 0031/2006. In addition, the application of this provision shall be postponed until the entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89184	The representative of Ante Markov on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89185	The supply of ammunition anywhere is not a condition for approval, in most European Union countries, there is no reason to be in Croatia either. Therefore, it is completely irrelevant, irrelevant. And otherwise, we delay it until it enters the European Union. So let's bring the law that suits us today, and we'll change it when we get in. I invite you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89186	To vote. The result? 25 for, 7 abstentions, 60 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Second amendment of the HSLS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89187	Amendment number two is not accepted. In this regard, Article 10(2) of point 4 is replaced by the following: The procedures shall be conducted on the basis of the application, so that this idea must respond to each application covered by the existing point of Article 10(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89188	Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89189	Mr. President, actually, before I make my decision, I have one question. Here it is wanted to prevent someone who has been reported for domestic violence but without weapons, whether each application is being processed or going into further proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89191	We can't have a discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89192	Yeah? I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89193	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. The third amendment of MP Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89194	Amendment number three is being adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89195	Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89196	Amendment number four is not accepted. In fact, we believe that the ten-year deadline for performing medical examinations is too long, that the five-year period is optimal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89197	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89198	We believe that there is really no reason not to accept it every ten years or to limit it to 65 years of life and then to increase it after 65 years. ... Ten years to 65 years of life. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is just for fundraising. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89199	To vote. The result? 8 for, 5 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 5 to Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89200	Amendment 5 is rejected with the same explanation. So we think that the 5-year term is optimal for performing periodic medical examinations, and we also have 199,000 509 gun owners. If a commitment was made every 3 years, it would significantly burden the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89201	To vote, no MPs. The result? 20 for, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89202	Amendment number six is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89203	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89204	Amendment number seven is not accepted. Namely, this request has been resolved by the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89205	That's right, consummated. Amendment 8. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89206	Amendment number eight is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89207	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89208	Amendment 9 is rejected with the same argument as Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89209	Retracted. Ten. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89210	Amendment number 10 is not accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89211	It's already consummated, discussed, yes. Retracted. 11. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89212	It's not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89213	Retracted. 12. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89214	He refuses with the same argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89215	Say you don't accept, and we refuse the Parliament, and you government don't accept or accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89216	It's unacceptable. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89217	That's withdrawn. 13th also Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89218	The government does not accept the 13th amendment with the same explanation. It's about the purchase.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89219	Amendment 13. Okay. 14th Representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89220	It is not accepted because this restriction, the giving of weapons, would only be limited to children, and we believe that it is necessary for minors to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89221	To vote. The result? 16 for, 5 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89222	The amendment is not accepted. By way of derogation from Article 44, the proposed provision requires temporary withdrawal... in the administrative procedure until the end of the administrative dispute under the General Administrative Procedure Act. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] The amendment shall also state either the release of the judgment. In the administrative procedure, there is no acquittal, but the administrative procedure determines whether the act against it is based on law and facts and has no acquittal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89223	Representative Miroslav Rožić on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89224	Look, the amendment actually wants to achieve something completely different from this explanation. The amendment seeks to achieve that there is no permanent confiscation of weapons until the administrative procedure for temporary confiscation has been completed. That's what this amendment is about, not that. And permanent confiscation can only be issued on the basis of a court ruling, not on the basis of a administrative dispute, because it is a constitutional-law issue. This is a constitutional and legal issue for someone to take away a permanent weapon based on administrative procedure. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89225	To vote. The result? 9 for, 9 abstentions, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th also Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89226	The government doesn't accept Amendment 16. In particular, Article 45 provides for the temporary confiscation of arms in the event that the owner of a weapon has been declared incompetent in an extraordinary medical examination and cannot be a liberating verdict here either.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89227	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89228	Thank you very much. The argument is exactly the same. Imagine the temporary seizure of weapons, the temporary confiscation of weapons based on a medical examination of incompetence. What does that mean? Is it expected that after a certain time, a person will be satisfied with a medical examination? Why the temporary confiscation? Totally. So we're looking for a vote because it's actually about the exact same thing as you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89229	You asked. To vote. The result? 10 for, 5 abstentions, 67 against. The amendment wasn't adopted. 17. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89230	The Government of Amendment 17 does not accept. In fact, this is about the absence of the conditions for holding arms for a legal person, no guilt is found, and there can be no acquittal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89231	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89232	Thank you very much. In my debate, I explained that a legal person can be reported for any offence that has nothing to do with the use of weapons and that the basis of that application, this disturbance of public order and peace, or any financial or any other declaration, has nothing to do with the use of weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89233	To vote, please. The result? 13 for, 68 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89234	Amendment 18. The government doesn't accept. Namely, in this head, head V. Disposal of weapons, ammunition... it is a matter of temporary confiscation of arms in the administrative procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand, because of the presidential bell.]] The party has the possibility to use legal medicines until the administrative court's case. And to the power of a solution, therefore, in the ultimate instance of the Court of Justice's verdict, there is no confiscation of the weapons permanently. It is only when the solution becomes effective in administrative proceedings that means the final instance is the Administrative Court, then the weapon is taken away with the right to sell. Because here we are talking not about criminal and criminal responsibility when weapons are used, when criminal acts are committed, but when the party does not meet the conditions for holding and carrying weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89235	Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89236	Thank you very much. I'll translate it in a different way than the Government. The point is, is that one of the malicious people who lives around you anonymously reports you to have your weapons taken from you temporarily and to wait seven years while the administrative court is going to return that weapon to you. It is preventing the availability of personal property which is a violation of the Constitution in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89237	Vote! The result? ... For, 2 abstentions, 64 against. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 19 also the Club of HSP Representatives. 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89238	Amendment 19 The government does not accept. In fact, such a formulation exists in Articles 141 and 214. The General Administrative Procedure Act. It's an urgent and unsustainable measure. And we agree that the facts either exist or do not exist. Either they are or they're not. However, in emergency measures where certain preventive action is necessary to prevent weapons abuse, it may also be done if there is a reasonable doubt that these circumstances exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89239	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Then enter a term of reasonable doubt. But, please, just for reason of common sense, erase the term of probable fact. Facts are either true or not. They are who they are. Someone might seem likely and someone incredible. But they're still facts. I can't figure out the term to make facts likely. Excuse me. That's pretty amazing to me, yeah, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89241	Vote! The result? ... 2 versus, 61 abstentions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89242	The government doesn't accept Amendment 20. In fact, the Arms Act is about administrative procedure. When it comes to criminal or criminal proceedings, weapons shall be taken as a safeguard measure. Here in this administrative procedure, it is said in Article 50 that the administrative procedure is being carried out and only by the power of the solution is the weapon temporarily taken away until sale.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89243	Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89244	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State! The weapon can be seized temporarily because of the possibility that a criminal act will be committed by it. It can also be found in the administrative procedure that this possibility does not exist at all, that it was in fact an understatement, anonymous even more. However, this will result in the end of the administrative procedure, regardless of whether the administrative procedure has established that it was as you would say a likely fact or an incredible fact, it will still sell its weapons to the owner. It is impossible for someone to sell someone's property, even if the judgment of the Administrative Court is liberating. It's completely unclear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89245	Vote! The result? 18 for, 1 abstention, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89246	Amendment 21 The government does not accept. Namely, in the administrative procedure of power of the solution the weapon is not sold automatically, but after the power of the solution of the citizen has the right within a year, we extended that deadline, I sell the weapon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89247	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89248	Oh, everything is absolutely, what you're saying... We're really banging our heads against the wall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, once again, that the weapon is my property and if I am not, in a administrative procedure I am free of any doubt why can't I get it back but I have to sell it? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89249	Vote! The result? 12 for, 6 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22nd Amendment to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89250	The government doesn't accept the amendment. Namely, a minor can't be a hunter. Shooting clay pigeons isn't hunting. It's sports shooting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89251	Agent Ante Markov. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89252	Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89253	Give it a rest, time flies just like a clay pigeon flies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89254	Article 80(2) speaks very clearly about the need to allow shooting on civilian shooting sites and minors actively engaged in sports and hunting shooting, not these strategists that you listed in your statement. So this is about gentlemen, it's really about different interpretations of important differences, and it's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89255	Let's vote. It'll be the easiest thing to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89256	Mr. President, it's very important for the content of the law that we understand what we're voting on because it can happen that by paying no attention to the various populations used by the secretary of state there is really no reason not to support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89257	Now let's see, we'll see about that support. Let's go vote. The result? 18 for, 4 abstentions, 67 against. Looks like he didn't get the necessary majority. 23. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89258	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89259	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24. It's an HSLS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89260	Consumed by the previous adopted article.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89261	Retracted. Consumed. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Arms Act. The result? With 74 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 15 against the adopted Arms Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. ... Why 75 votes? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it's organic law, then I guess it should be 77, and 75 doesn't, do it. We are going to the next point - final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 567 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Tourism and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Zdravko Vičić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89263	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, second reading. So, the reason the law is passed. Tourist activity law since '96. the year he was brought in he only had two changes of which he... to the State Inspectorate Act and one amendment to the law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The above-mentioned amendments to the text of the law have seen only minor changes, but regardless of the extent to which the necessary amendments to the provisions of the applicable law have been assessed as appropriate for reasons of legal certainty, the adoption of a completely new law. Also, the applicable law does not fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, the adoption of a new law is foreseen by a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union for 2006. In accordance with the agreed plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for 2006, i.e. the national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2006. The non-compliance of the law concerns remaining obstacles to the freedom to provide cross-border services in the section concerning the provision of services of natural persons to citizens. The law stipulates that some of these services can be provided exclusively by Croatian citizens and therefore, in order to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, it is necessary to delete the conditions of nationality of the Republic of Croatia for the provision of tourist services, so it is estimated that the law requires that the Member State of the European Union and of the European Economic Area may provide these services under the same conditions as Croatian citizens if it is not otherwise governed by an international agreement which is in force in the Republic of Croatia only from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. Special alignment with the European Union rules governing the issue of travel organisation of the package of arrangements, which has already been carried out by the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Relations, will be ensured through public-law protection compliance with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Entities which regulate the contract on organised travel and in part of the liability insurance obligations for the execution of contractual obligations by the travel organisers. The plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy as well as the national consumer protection programme for the period 2005 and 2006 provide for measures that need to be implemented to amend the applicable law. These measures primarily concern the signing of higher amounts of fines for infringements concerning the illegal conduct of activities, i.e. the provision of services, depending on the restrictions on the regulation of fines under the Law on Violations and the granting of higher powers to the State Inspectorate, in such cases as has already been done in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Inspectorate. Some legal solutions must be changed because of the situation... Unregulated and present services, i.e. leaving out those services that no longer correspond to the development of the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This primarily refers to the provision of services that include sports-recreative adventure activities skiing, diving, sailing, riding, rafting, rafting, parachute sailing, paragliding, rope jumping, bangee jumping and similar whose offer and diversity is in significant growth due to the interest of tourists in demanding leisure, i.e. leisure. By participating in such programs can... useful services in risk situations for their health and life and the country's intervention in this area of tourism is necessary, so it is necessary to regulate who can be a user of such a service and who can provide services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Enabling the organisation of trips to individual associations for their members as well as so far, as well as enabling schools and other educational institutions to organise excursions for their students and students is assessed as justified because of real needs in the function of achieving their goals, but only under special conditions. The law also stipulates that tourist services can provide public institutions that manage saturated natural areas, but only for the purposes of areas managed by tourism services of health tourism, health resorts, certain tourist resorts... and cultural institutions and certain services of nautical tourism of port administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the fact that in practice it feels the need for tourist guide associations to own in providing services for tourist guides to their members because they have information about their members and can provide quality and efficient service to users, we consider it necessary and allow the provisions of the law to do so. We do not assess this by unfair competition with tourist agencies. Due to the observed problems regarding the place of conclusion of the travel contract organised by the shipowners which were interpreted as exclusively authorised water... through the tourist agency, we consider it necessary and clear to allow for sale by shipowners and elsewhere outside the ship, not just directly along the boat's berth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, while ships sail and provide services, they cannot offer services to other potential users, but in order to protect users of services and ensure the equal position of service providers on the market, it is necessary to limit the type of services of passenger agencies that can be provided by shipowners without the establishment of a tourist agency. When he... tourism offers in rural holdings are proposed not to restrict the provision of these services to rural economies where they already provide catering services in accordance with the Household Activity Act, but also to enable those who do not provide catering services because these services are not necessarily linked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the level of fines for infringements prescribed by the applicable law cannot respond to their purpose and it is necessary to increase them as regards both lower and upper borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89264	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Tourism Committee, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89265	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State! The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament held at the 40th session on 23 May 2007 discussed the final proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 4 May 2007. The tourism committee discussed the final proposal for the law in question pursuant to Article 69. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the capacity of the right and duty of the home working body in the area relating to the catering and tourist activities and directly related activities. The session was attended by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Association of Croatian Travel agencies, Association of Independent Travel Agents, Croatian Chamber of crafts representatives of the group of rural tourism on behalf of Croatian farmers and representatives of the Croatian Association of Tourist Shipowners. The way the Tourism Committee works to call on the widest range of representatives of professional associations in the event of debates of important legislative projects, thus allowing public expression of different views and interests, is assessed very positively. The opening statement on the reasons why a new text of the law is proposed in relation to the current law was submitted by Mr Robert Penda, Assistant Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, and also explained that the amendments were contained in the final draft of the law in relation to the law in the first reading. In his statement, he stressed that the law has been amended in relation to first reading in the part concerning harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, and certain proposals have also been accepted. In his presentation, the Committee President expressed his satisfaction with the good co-operation of the Resord Ministry with relevant associations operating in the provision of services in tourism, so that the comments of this Committee, representatives of the Croatian Parliament and of professional associations were made, mainly, included in the text of the final draft law. In his presentation, he proposed to consider the possibility of replacing a travel agency's legal statement with a travel agency, given that it should be brought into line with the national activity classification from statistical monitoring. It also considers that the deadline for entry into force of this law is in question. It should enter on 1 November 2007 as more than 16 sublegal acts should be adopted within three months on the basis of its provisions. After that, a debate was opened on the text of a final draft law that was comprehensive, thorough and highly professional. The following opinion is expressed in the debate. If organisations should not be able to organise a two-day package, Article 6 should apply. Second. In order to ensure that the representative body of the local self-government or port administration makes a decision on the place where the reservation and sale of arrangements and excursions on a waterfront facility can be made, Article 7 shall apply. Third. In order to define the notion of nautical tourism, to add the definition of nautical tourism to passenger ships on circular and multi-day voyages for daily yacht excursions with an economic purpose with a professional crew, Article 44 applies. Fourth. In order to delete paragraph 2 of Article 52, as that paragraph concerns a solution governed by another regulation, it is therefore necessary to delete paragraph 5 of Article 65 in criminal provisions. Six. In order to include cultural tourism, diving tourism and gastronomic tourism in special forms of tourist offer, Article 54 applies. In order to replace the concept of a travel agency, the term travel agency should be replaced, since the National Classification Act contains the term travel agency. And the last. If the conditions to be met by tourist guides that will pass a special part of the expert examination and lead tourists to special sites are introduced as a condition of at least senior expert preparation, that is, Article 27. Afterwards, the president of the proposal was shown in relation to certain remarks and submitted proposals stressing that it was acceptable to include cultural tourism in specific forms of services in tourism and reported that it was in preparation for a special Diving Act that would address most of the outstanding issues. He also informed the board members that a study on the development strategy of nautical tourism was completed with all issues on nautical tourism set at the session. He believes that in the case of tourism arrangements organised by associations, it is only for members of these associations that are part of the activities. As far as travel and tourist agencies are concerned. Both can legitimately operate, and that the debate on this issue requires extensive technical and professional discussion. Afterwards, Mr Zdenko Antešić, a member of the board, warned that Article 5 of Article 22, provided that foreign citizens who have registered their own company or crafts in the Republic of Croatia for the provision of services by a tourist agency or have a specific, approved permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia can carry out their business manager's duties if they meet the requirements of the business manager. The representative is of the opinion that the head of the business of the tourist agency as well as the tourist guide, other than the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the final proposal of the law, should be required to know the Croatian language. Afterwards, full liberalisation of doing these jobs after joining the European Union, the nostration of acquired diplomas and expertise in the European Union countries does not require the compulsory knowledge of Croatian. According to the interpretation of the representatives of the European Union's proposed directive, they do not allow the introduction as a condition of compulsory knowledge of Croatian language and the diplomas acquired must be accepted while the expert examination programme can prescribe the submission of exams in Croatian. The Chair proposed that the members of the committee, that the members of the committee formulate the solution referred to in Article 22 and in paragraph 6 which would determine that knowledge of Croatian language is one of the conditions for the Head of Business and that the discussion of which the modality would be used to build up such an institute. Afterwards, the board president proposed to vote on the proposal to prescribe as a condition for the head of the business of the tourist agency and tourist guides the condition of Croatian language knowledge. Four board members voted in favour of this proposal while six members were against it so that the proposal did not go through. Four board members expressed a separate opinion in relation to the results of the vote. The Committee president suggested that the Committee should not be made clear at this session on the terms of a travel agency or a tourist agency since it is almost a scientific debate according to the proposed text of the law and one and another form of the Agency can deal legally. The committee accepted this proposal and did not vote on this issue. After the debate was concluded, he proposed the following conclusions: The Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the provision of services in tourism with the following amendments: Amendment 1: Article 44. In paragraph 1 of Article 44, brackets after the word "ship, boat" are added to the words: "traveling ship on circular multi-day trips and for daily excursions, yachts with economic purposes with professional crew". Reason: closer and more content determines the scope of the definition considered nautical tourism. Amendment 2 to Article 54 In Article 54, paragraph 1, after the word "health" is added: "cultural" and after the word "recreational fishing at sea", the words "snoring tourism" are added. The explanation is this: it is certain that the design of a cultural and tourist product that includes cultural monuments is an inevitable part of the tourist offer that requires additional content. Also, the growing demand for diving experiences requires that this form be included in tourism services that can be provided in special forms of tourist offer. This conclusion was unanimously accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89266	Thank you very much. If I may comment on this committee has indeed worked concretely and in detail what we can say that rarely which committee is so detailed and responsible, no matter what is accepted and not accepted. Let's move on. Do the other reporters want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89267	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. The IDS Club welcomes the adoption of the Tourism Service Act and we want to believe that the discussion under this proposal will greatly contribute to the creation of this proposal's final proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism in a way that contributes greatly to tourism's progress as a whole. However, I must say that exactly what Mr. Vice President said that the Committee on Tourism has done its part of the job and that surely these amendments that have been given would be good to consider exactly what I said to contribute greatly to the progress of tourism as a whole. Namely, if the basic issues to be regulated by the tourism service law are entities that can provide tourism services to entities providing tourism services, conditions for providing services in tourism, the procedure for establishing conditions for providing tourist services, special forms of tourist offer, tourist services to natural persons who are not traders of individuals and craftsmen, etc. If the consequences resulting from the adoption of the law are greater professionalism, raising quality in the provision of services, harmonising the law with the acquis of the European Union in order to facilitate the application and understanding of the law, to reduce the grey economy and work on black, to achieve an increase in the state budget, to facilitate the business of legal and natural persons, to further develop specific forms of tourist offer, better protection of service users, greater respect for legal provisions and ultimately more employment, then this law is very welcome and I do not think that this Law on providing tourism services is necessary. However, I must point out here that in the last few months at the route of the Ministry of Tourism – Ministry of Finance and also the Croatian Tourist Agency Association are located in a single stretch and it is about the calculation of VAT on one-day trips. I know that Mr. Secretary of State here has also responded to these things that are happening in relation to the Ministry of Tourism, Croatian associations of tourist agencies and the Ministry of Finance, and that I simply hope to find myself here until the end of the debate under this law to find suggestions as well as how to account for VAT on one-day trips. It is interesting that the European Travel Agency Association in Brussels also sent clear support to Croatian agencies and related to the problem of VAT accounting on one-day trips abroad, which is why four agencies are being punished with a total of 11 million kuna. The same agencies have already filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Finance. This has raised the burning problem of Croatian travel agencies to a European level, which I still think we simply do not need. It is considered that the method of calculating VAT on one-day trips abroad applied by the Ministry of Finance is not in line with the practice of the Member States of the European Union. A letter of support to Croatian agencies and a warning that it is not operating in accordance with the practice of the European Union sent to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and most of the ministers, but the owners of the penal agencies are bitter about the actions of the ministry, which, due to administrative slowness, threatens business in the upcoming season, which has practically begun. We've got written evidence, they say big agencies were also counting VAT on one-day outings abroad. We know that these are Atlas agencies from Dubrovnik, General Tourist, so we can take examples of one-day trips without overnight trips, whether it's a trip to Montenegro from Dubrovnik, whether it's a trip to Medjugorje or not. However, such things have happened to imagine very interestingly four agencies in Istria. For what? What makes such things happen? During the coalition government, the finance minister said VAT should not be paid in such cases. Then the inspector who was on the ground called and gave the solution that VAT should not be paid on one-day trips. And then imagine 4 years later the same inspector, according to the agency's writing of what the Croatian Tourist Agency Association supports, that this same inspector is advertised in a way that VAT is to be paid on one-day trips. And now watch what's going on? There's something going on that we just can't afford ourselves. Payment of VAT twice. And that's what we all have to get up against. And in this case, I would like to thank Mr. Secretary of State who has stepped in to protect the tourist agencies and I believe that I will repeat once again that even until the end of this debate, whether by regulation, whether by some lower act or by government decision that such things are simply not happening because the people who work in these agencies are, and in this case, they are four agencies that I say are being punished for 11 million kuna, of course in bankruptcy. And that just doesn't happen. As far as the bill itself, Mr. Secretary of State is concerned, you have done a good job, and I believe that by harmonising this VAT on one-day trips to tourist agencies, it will be in line with the Ministry of Finance and that such a bill will be adopted with the amendments made by the chairman of the Tourism Committee and that it will be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89268	Thank you very much. It's Frano Matušić on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we will firstly say that we will support this proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism, and we believe that the adoption of this Act is one of the key preconditions for further development of tourism and tourism, because it addresses some open issues and introduces order in the field of providing services in tourism, and which has contributed to the changes made in relation to the proposal for a law from the first reading. And I would also like to commend the preparation of the material for this second reading because what was proposed in the first reading has indeed been very comprehensively processed, and I think it has been very easily accepted, a lot of suggestions, and that is how we view this proposal as improved. As already said here, the law is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in a way that also enables the liberalisation of the provision of tourist services. Citizens and Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area will be able, under the same conditions as Croatian citizens, to provide tourist services from the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. At the same time, protect the interests of consumers and domestic service providers. The law sets out those services which are considered tourism services in terms of the law. It is clear who and under what conditions or conditions tourism services can be provided by companies, craftsmen and merchants of individuals, cooperatives, special hospitals, hospitals, public institutions operating protected areas of nature, institutions in culture,... the association, associations and schools and other educational institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it can be pointed out that the law introduces order in providing boaters' tourist services while also providing wider opportunities for direct sale of these services, in particular by allowing local self-government units to resolve the issue for their territory. The establishment of a space where such services can be provided by shipowners and tourist agencies, and thus the observations of the Association of Shipowners and tourist agencies, or chambers, are also respected. The law regulates the provision of tourist guide services and expert examinations for a tourist guide who can now be especially for the entire country, this is a general part of the exams and for certain tourist units, which is a special part of the exams as well as the tourist escort services and expert exams for the travel companion. It provides a definition of tourism whole or locality, which is extremely important. The law also allows for greater professionalism and quality raising in the provision of services, reducing the grey economy and working on black and, of course, greater employment and increasing the state budget. By prescribing higher fines compared to the previous proposal, which follows the plan of short- and long-term measures to combat the grey economy will contribute, of course, to the increasing respect of legal provisions. The law also covers special forms of tourist offer that have been recognised as an inevitable factor in the development of the tourist offer and have not been regulated so far. This law also allows for greater consumer protection, in particular by regulating tourism services that include sports-recreative or adventurous activities, among other things by prescribing the mandatory provision of service users from the consequences of an accident. The way in which tourist services can be provided to minors and by introducing obligations to tourist agencies, by agreeing with the insurance provider of liability insurance contracts with respect to the fulfilment of the obligations relating to the package arrangement. Finally, the proposal to bring the law into force after the main tourist season allows all entities to which the law applies and easier to adapt their business to the provisions of the law. Here, once again, the HDZ supports this Final proposal, and we believe that it will really mean one significant shift in the regulation of all open issues related to the provision of services in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89270	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89271	Dear Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the HSS Club I would like to show myself about this final bill on this subject and say that this may be one of the few but good examples when parliamentary democracy is, in good dealing with particular democracy. So with a democracy that rests on the interests of certain groups, with the interests of certain economic branches, with the interests of a particular group or a larger group of citizens. So this is the democracy that is actually needed when discussing the measure of the law, the content of the law, and not how to politically articulate individual positions through the law itself. For this reason, I think it is good to take advantage of the simply positive climate that those amendments that are on the trail of the content of the indemnity or content of the ineffectiveness of this proposal of the law are passed, installed and accepted by the proposings, and I would say that what is well followed by the broad debate, which included not only professional associations, not only representatives of various professional associations or organisations, but simply during a decent period from the first to the second reading and from the fact that simple tourism in Croatia has been granted full membership in society and political society and the economic system simply resulted in the fact that this proposal has been discussed, that perhaps for the first time I have been a little surprised to say because I was in some discussions, that the debate in Istria, Dalmatia and Dubrovnik would somehow be quite normal and understandable. However, let's say that tables, round tables were held in Ilock, Vukovar, not to say almost everywhere in Croatia is talking about an interest that has not just been seen so far. So, for the first time there was that the thesis that I've said several times, which is that tourism, when it comes to tourism, is wrong, not only is it in some way inappropriate, but it's completely wrong to locate it only on the sea, on the islands, on that blue tourism. Simply tourism has now opened its doors and has become Croatia's tourism. Croatia is brand, and can't be brand if there's only one part of it. Of course, I always use the Syntagma of success through Istria so my colleagues don't mind me, they won't mind, of course. But why it's good and there's no need to be ashamed of things and it's good to respect them. Because if you can learn from someone, then it's good to learn from them, and it's good to learn from them, and everyone has them, and so Istra doesn't do in other parts of them that have proved to be bad. So, this one co-existence of marine and continental tourism is something that has won the right to vote in this bill. It's got its own ID, because you have a very strange situation. I'll tell State Secretary Zdenko knows, there's an unusual tourist product in Pak's village. It's called an ethnic land. That's something that was there when he got there, then he just wondered and the good thing about this right now. It's a completely authentic ecological ethic village in which in a relatively large space, an environment you can't even imagine until you get there what it is, and there are people who are a stoner, a stoner and a stoner. There you have one retrospective of the culture of life, one retrospective of craftsmanship, one retrospective of the economy, one retrospective of everything that once existed in that wider space. But it's not only faithfully transmitted here, but you have live actors there. So you have an old man who's a stone cleaver. She's 80 years old because the young aren't here. You have a carpenter who's also about 80 and he, each of them makes in the original of certain things he did during his life, but this time he found a tourist market and he can if he has a pension she's small, if he doesn't have it then he's welcome to make a living that way. And the fundamental problem, let's say, of this micro-locality and these micro-offices, is that if you want to open it now, if this law wouldn't create the conditions to pass, it would have to register to me as a waiter or as a restaurant. Well, he doesn't do that at all. He's a cultural, retrospective center where you can experience that your 90-year-old grandmother from Drniš recites her songs and is not a poet. In which you can experience one lado in another way. So something that is in any case anyone who has been of all the memories that I have left is guaranteed that memory is the one that is called the dominant that will bring him back another time. Therefore, such eco stories in Croatia can be thousands. But, of course, there must be a prerequisite. This is just a book opening. The law is just the opening of space. On the other, it is now common for the institutions of the system to create what is important to create. If you can't supply visitors with what they came for, and that's a gastronomic offer that's also at the level of that cultural value. So that offer must also be an integral part of that space. It is different in Slavonia, different in northern Croatia, different in Ilock because each has its own cultural features. Istria has its own cultural specialities. She developed them through agro tourism. It has improved them, and today they have become brands that are sold very easily, very expensive in terms and prices. But they became recognizable to that space. And I think that this law in nature opens up such positions that are welcome in Croatian tourism and that can change the image in tourism. So far it has been considered quite wrong that tourism is almost not to be mentioned because it is not important and significant. You know, we have 4 and a half million inhabitants, and tourism itself in one day also has a new Croatia with a million and a half inhabitants. But this new Croatia is three times more powerful financially than this Croatia, because this tourist Croatia has come to spend, and this existing one has not primarily come to spend. She lives here. So, a new Croatia that has potential says our statistics now twenty percent of gross social product. I believe it is more in our circumstances, but in any case, a huge potential that needs to be opened by space to legalise individual forms of tourist offer. Especially I want to relate to this continental part that has the opportunity to do so. I'd like to warn them of some small changes and some small misunderstandings, and the HSS Club will be one amendment. In Article 7, paragraph 5, we were also warned by tourist shipmen about one for them, and I later asked around, and I think that the possibility is somewhere in compromise. It is not possible to comply with their request. It is their requirement that those in places where they go through circular voyages with their ships may have one place to sell their services. It means they've got some pay to be assigned. The law states that the sale and booking can be carried out on a water facility, but that it can also provide for a place in the area to be designated, can be determined by the body, the representative body of the units of local self-government. And I'd throw out what I can. It's about making a decision. Because you know what? I wouldn't want to get involved in competences, that's what I said on the board so I wouldn't turn out to speak differently now, I said no one can order local self-government. By law, we can't order, right, because she has her own laws, her own rules. However, this law can define precisely the concepts that they are clear. Because if we've built something into the law, let's try not to interpret it one way or another. It just means that this word can be deleted and that everything else remains the same. So then it's going to say that the space that needs to be determined by the representative body of the local self-government unit. It doesn't say that it's for Jank or Mark or any of this under any circumstances, but it says more specifically that it should be there. So if we're setting something up let's end it so there's no interpretation afterwards. Because, you know, the worst thing is when one of us asks for interpretations, that's what we don't like. Very rarely gives this Assembly authentic interpretations for something. And they're very slow. Another question I would like to answer very clearly, the VAT issue in tourism, so that it does not remain irresponsible. I do not want to answer as chairman of the board, but I want to answer as a man who has participated in all these discussions and who absolutely supports the thesis that business conditions should be evened out for everyone. So that's my simple attitude. The conditions of business should be leveled for all and cannot be those in such a position or such. It happens again, this is the same case, that the practice of how we will interpret certain rules both in the VAT law and in some others is different, different from different cases, and even there are cases and different tax administrations that have different treatment of certain things. Of course, it needs to be even with the law. We, too, have talked to the associations several times, especially the Croatian Travel Agency Association, and have urged this case to be resolved. There was even a round table on the subject where we absolutely gave support because it cannot simply be brought during the season 6,7 travel agencies to be in bankruptcy, i.e. to have their doors closed and guests coming or coming. Clearly absolutely. And especially since this case is not really linear, so it's not universally respected the same rule but it's affected those 5.6 agencies. Well, I mean, that's the point. The second thing I want to say, and it also concerns what was previously highlighted, and that is whether and how much care should be taken from, and I won't call it pathetic by my own dignity, but the dignity of my own language. You know, that's one principle question. But you know me through all these principle issues we go through, it's not exactly like that, it's gonna be okay. And then the debate opened now whether we'd all have a common language I don't know but what that language will be called in the European Union, we said ok. It won't be. However, I think that some questions must be answered unequivocally and clearly and put in a position to defend them. And in this Bill proposal, the HSS Club, together with the SDP Club, will set up an amendment to establish very precise and clear Croatian language position when it comes to carrying out activities concerning foreigners in tourist agencies and services means tourist guides. We think, I absolutely think that's good. It's good for all of us, and let it be, let it be part of this law, let it be part of this consensus and community because I believe that it can accomplish a lot more than that, from the very fact that 3, 4 Frenchmen, Englishmen, Germans will work evenly with me, with you or not, it's far more than that. That message makes sense. She's talking about estimating her own values. And I think simply whether European directives prohibit in this way or in this way, I know, I know, I know that some countries have regulated in their legislation that you cannot come to their country and do the work of tourist agencies, tourist guides without knowing their native language. I'm no expert that I would now be able to formulate to you in which way they arranged it, but I think there are people in this country, in this government, in this society who will know how to handle it. Therefore, the task of our counsel is that we seek and do so. And let him who knows it sees how other countries in the European Union have arranged it, and they have arranged it. They absolutely arranged that you can't be a tourist guide and that you can't do a job in their country and that you don't need to know that local language, right. So I think that we would do these few things that we can arrange, and for a short period of time, I simply can't put out all those things, especially in the part of nautical tourism, although I welcome this part of nautical tourism being resolved in particular by law, I know that a strategy is being developed or developed, I think that it should be considered when it comes to rural tourism on the adoption of a special Rural Tourism Act, because 90% of Croatia is in some way rural or one percent not now going to be divulging, but I think that further contribution to the development of these forms of tourism would be one separate law that would not only regulate relations in tourism because every year, every day they appear in other forms, it's very difficult to follow, it's a very dynamic market, which is very demanding but very useful for national economies, it's very useful for our citizens. And if we direct them correctly, if we allow them fiscal positions to be used, if we give them the right incentives in 5 years we will create that in the continental part of Croatia simply create the same climate, the same participation of this tourist product as today on the Adriatic. And today the ratio when you look at the Adriatic and the continental parts is almost 95% versus %. And in countries like Italy, they have almost 39 to 40% of the tourism that happens in continental Italy. So one big share is one, everyone says a little country household. And why so little? And the country household. So a household that was determined to work in tourism, which was determined to produce its own food for its own guests. What I think should be not allowed when someone creates a tourist family economy to buy food from Hungary, but he should produce his resources at home and those brands that he produces, they will be expensive and what he buys.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89272	That's interesting, but it should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89273	But no one will buy in Croatia what can be bought cheaper in Hungary, and otherwise Hungary has a lot of income from tourism, but it is another story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89274	Thank you very much. Now, we've extended this debate a little bit, but it was interesting and tolerated, so it's tolerance and time. Well, as was the last one tonight, I'd like to conclude tonight's session. Tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., Mr. Zdenko Antesic is first in line on behalf of the SDP club, so I welcome you here by 9:30 tomorrow. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89275	We're continuing the session. SDP representative club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89276	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I must say at first immediately that this is a good law that can be a positive example of how when respecting the remarks of MPs, professions and professional associations can make a really good law, unlike many examples in this House, when laws that later proved to be bad have been passed. I would refer to some articles of the law that SDP has certain objections to. This is in the first row of Article 7 which we must also commend before the observation is made about the fact that the proposing has complied with the requirements of the shipowners' association which allows them to sell a package of arrangements on their waterfront facilities without the establishment of the agency which we consider to be good. However, one small remark in the article, so in point 5 of this article, which I believe will be adopted, which is that Article 5 indicates that the sale and booking of services referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article may be carried out on a water facility directly along with the place of berth of a water facility at that intended place in the facility... in a space which, in the proposal, can be decided by a decision, which can be determined by a representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We suggest that it be which it will determine, so to make it stronger, I think it is, not so important, and in any case it would sort out that relationship more closely. Furthermore, the reference also to Article 54 of the Law on tourism services in other forms of tourist offer. Namely, there are a number of tourist services, so other tourist services are listed whether rural, health wellness, congress tourism, tourism for young people, adventure, hunting, sports, golf tourism, sports or recreational fishing at sea etc., etc. We believe that there, and this is also the observation of some other clubs, should be classified cultural, diving, enogastronomial, so these three types, and perhaps it would be good, so it might be good not to place these forms of tourist offer under others, but perhaps give each individual special importance because each of these activities, each of these forms of offer, are extremely important for the overall branding of Croatian tourist products. In this way we would actually come out of that cliché of Croatian tourism, so the notion of Croatian tourism, which unfortunately still comes down to the offer of bathing tourism, i.e. the offer of sun and sea. So I stress that Croatia has exceptional, therefore exceptional opportunities in this so-called Other forms of tourist offer that should actually become the main forms of tourist offer. Not the others, and less and less, we brand a Croatian tourist product that sells sun and sea. Finally, I must stress for the sake of the Croatian public that this Law introduces full liberalisation in this activity and, of course, according to the agreement on the accession of the European Union, and we have already done so in the Law on Hostage Activity and on some other laws that have been discussed here. I am stressing that foreign citizens are fully equating with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we at the club believe that in order to protect national interests, the law should also be regulated with the knowledge of Croatian language for foreign citizens and foreign companies that will operate in Croatia. This mainly refers to article 22 of this Law, which talks about business leaders, then tourist guides, tourist escorts, animators and tourist representatives. At the end of the day, it also requires a minimum of national pride that each of us has. Otherwise, some tourist destinations may no longer hear Croatian in the future. In that sense, the SDP club together with the HSS club submitted a joint amendment, so please colleagues and colleagues to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89277	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89278	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The first thing I have to say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is that it is a good thing that this Law went into a regular procedure so that two readings are done and I also have to commend the representatives of the Ministry that they took seriously part of the draft law so that a significant number of the remarks we made in the first reading have been accepted, but we hold that there are still certain things that will need to be fixed in order to get far more quality legislation. We are also pleased with the fact that our part is accepted that it is not good for the law to come before, that is, the course of the tourist season, and therefore we welcome this provision that the law will apply as such from 1 November 2007 because it is important that all those to whom the law refers should be prepared in due time to be ready when the law enters into force in accordance with the legal provisions. So we need to take a lot of measures to bring tourism to the level that we can objectively bring in terms of natural resources and all that we have in Croatia, so that tourism as such should be the main one with agriculture, small and medium entrepreneurship within the framework and the real economic strategy of the Republic of Croatia that will allow for both new employment and growth of gross domestic product. Normally, at this point, we cannot yet be satisfied because we think tourism as such can contribute even more. Take just the fact of our tourist income, so compare it with one Vienna or Prague that has the same or similar tourist income, so you will see how much more means there is room in Croatia for the situation to improve and fix. But, of course, we have to import Croatian agriculture here, not that we have these situations that 70% of food and other products for tourism purposes, means to provide all these tourist services. The Croatian Party's right club is to improve the meaning of the law tabled amendments that we have divided into the following groups. The first group refers to the provision of tourist services to agencies, which are our amendment to Article 7(5). It is good that in the first part it is accepted that the shipowners, members of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, are asked to sell and book their services can perform in the space determined by the decision by the representative body of the units of local self-government or port administration. But we hold that it's not a good dictation that can be determined by a decision, but it has to be a diction which, by decision, determines. So, not to leave that possibility, but to make it a commitment by introducing order and also liberalising the market. The second group of amendments refers to the transport of travellers by tourist agencies. In fact, we hold that it is not a good diction in Article 15 where it is spoken only by means of its own means of transport. Namely, travel agencies can transport passengers not only by their own means of transport, but also by means of other means of transport, e.g. buses that are leased or are bought at Leasing. The lease and Leasing are legal institutions of ownership in our legal system and should be used here and given here means another possibility and convenience for tourist agencies. The third group of our amendments refers to the passing of a professional examination for business leaders and all others that the law obliges that, working within the meaning of providing tourist services, they must pass a professional exam. We believe that this is not a good solution, that expert exams will take place at the appropriate high school. Namely, the state expert exam that is passed at the Central State Administration Office, then a variety of other expert exams are essentially organised within either the Ministry or as part of the state administration. And here we propose and maintain that the organisation and conduct of these expert exams be transferred to expert chambers i.e. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in collaboration with the RES, of course, as has already been done in road transport, for example, in this area which the ministry covers. So, with the agreement of the resolution ministry, chambers could organise commissions, test materials, all professional organisations that exist as chamber members, would be actively involved in the work of the body responsible for carrying out or carrying out expert examinations. And that is why we have proposed that the group of amendments should return to the coverage of the Croatian Chamber of crafts or to the coverage of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And the normal ministry would still be like that, the minister would prescribe content, that part mandatory to pass a professional exam. And I think it's a simpler solution than giving to a university level, is it really not necessary to mix a professional exam with university education and these other situations? And the last group of amendments is very important, and this is the situation that is really related to tourist guides that we must also take care of our national interests and guides and we hold that it is necessary to determine the tourist units of the localities where the guide can only be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So, only a citizen of the Republic of Croatia like that. National parks, sites that are part of the world heritage in UNESCO lists, significant cultural and historical monuments, old Croatian archaeological sites, places of mass destruction of Croats throughout history and cities that have been hit by large-scale Serbian aggression. Last year, for example, 2,000 and 500 localities were designated in Italy, where only Italian citizens could be guides, and last year it was a thousand and 700 localities. We think that it also means we can't go over this, that there's no history of a guide who came from Turkey or, say, Albania, say, situations, we can tell us that let's say that those who were aggressors in Croatia in the Homeland War, that they are now members of the paramilitary units that were on the other side, now that they interpret the history of the Homeland War at certain localities. I think it's really too much. I have to tell you a little bit about Brijuni. We know it's the same national park, so my friends told me it was a tour of Brijuni. Veli, it is interesting that Brijuni and the history of Croatia, the guide explained only from the point of view of Comrade Tito and President Mesic. Veli, he spoke only of Brijuni bound, the guide was, he spoke only here, you see there is Comrade Tito, Croatia and Mesic. As if he weren't the late President Tudjman, he was also on Brijuni. So there is no part of Croatia's history in the period, but only, they believe that the history of the guide was just Comrade Tito and President Mesic. This is as if it's been erased. Therefore, and this is the part that is important for these expert exams as well means an integral part of that programme and everything else. Well, one of the forms of how and how a guide can be put into function of what it shouldn't be. So, we insist on accepting these amendments and we believe that with these improvements the law will be of quality and that it will enable what the Proposer wants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89279	Thank you. An individual debate. There's no replica. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89280	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The final proposal for the Law on the provision of services in tourism shows that basic issues are regulated in accordance with the acquis of the European Union, as well as the needs of providers and users of tourist services. It will certainly facilitate the business of legal and natural persons providing tourism services. Quality application and supervision of the implementation of this law will contribute to raising the quality of professionalism of all operators involved in this economic activity. A particularly positive solution is described in Article 26 of the Law, which provides for the definition of a tourist guide, which describes the scope of their action, which is well excluded public institutions operating protected areas. Namely, in accordance with Article 176. The Act on the Protection of Nature direct protection, protection and promotion are carried out by nature keepers and mainly by hiking, organising and carrying out educational walks in protected areas, environmental training by visitors of protected area and local population, and concern about the safety of visitors. This provides for conditions for a professional and competent presentation of the values of protected areas, especially when taking into account the diversity and richness of Croatian natural values. The destinations of continental tourism have been becoming increasingly attractive lately. Slavonia and Baranja, the area from which I come, adapts to new modern tourism requirements. It began to come true and show its beauty, trying to organize to get better acquainted and exploit its sights and attractions. In doing so, the government helps it to create assumptions and ensure the basic conditions for the development of continental tourism. In particular, it is important to highlight the incentive given by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development for good projects and thorough elaborates. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Development awarded a boost for 2007 for eight tourist projects from Baranja, which is at the very top of the number of incentives among Croatian tourist regions. The results of the surrounding area, for example "Kopački rit" park, are in favour of the previous claim. So today we record a significant increase in the capacity of tourist infrastructure and the number of overnight stays that are almost doubled from year to year. For example, in the municipality of Bilje in 2000 there was no object that provided overnight services. In 2006, 22 families offer accommodation for tourists and 9 thousand 45 overnight stays are reached and users of services in rural tourist economies register guests from 70 countries of the world. Neighbouring municipality of Knezev Vinogradi follows the trend and in the same way is the provision of accommodation services where 2 thousand 956 nights are recorded in 2006 and the extension of the offer by the development of wine roads. The example of Kopački rit as an eco-tourism potential and as a generator for the tourist development of the region recognises the growing number of entrepreneurs and institutions, which certainly contributes to the quality of life of the population in the protected area. This example should also be followed by county and urban public institutions operating protected areas of the lower category. These are reserves, significant landscapes, monuments of park architecture, monuments of nature and the like, which is still not the case because local natural potentials are not used enough for tourist purposes. By the way, I am glad that the final draft of the law is now special and well-defined that the very tourist services in the peasant economy or the family agricultural economy are listed. More and more tourists are looking for a new form of recreation, visiting rural economics and not only as guests but include recreationally as help in harvesting fruits, vegetables, harvesting summers, renting horses for riding and the like. What we think is not good, here and we have proposed an amendment precisely related to tourism services in the peasant economy and the family holding is Article 52(2), which says that a member of the rural economy referred to in paragraph 1 of this article cannot be an employer or use the work of persons who are not members of the same farm economy. We believe that in order to develop the economy, it is necessary for a peasant economy member to occasionally employ up to two people to provide services to a larger group of tourists. Namely, Article 49 of the tourism service in the peasant economy or family agricultural economy and therefore this economy can provide a tourist service for up to 50 tourists at the same time. We believe that our families in Croatia who run the economy are few and that they will not be able to provide quality... A service without occasional employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our goal is that these families can hire at least two people, here we have told up to two people who would help them when such a group can be twenty, thirty people because we know that they need it because they're actually giving all of these indigenous products and we know that it's not that simple to prepare. So here's the amendment. ... Yes, of course they will, they will provide that service to those guests but it will be working on black. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Our goal is to avoid this work in black and to avoid as many as possible, as possible, as many people in a way and hire people. So here's the amendment, and hopefully the ministry will accept it. What you would also point out is better protection of users of services. Therefore, Article 18 of the Law provides for the obligation of a tourist agency to organise travel arrangements for each package to provide bail to a bank or insurance company for payment of cash compensation. Therefore, it is the prescribed obligation of the travel agency to issue a guarantee guarantee at the time of payment of the amount to the tourist package, allowing the traveller to directly exercise the right to compensation to the bank or to an insurance company in function and to protect the users. We believe that there were tourist agencies where the users paid, went into bankruptcy and, of course, these tourist service users could not achieve funds return. Therefore, this is a good protection for users of services where they will get their funds back. And finally, I think I'll support the final bill. I think it will contribute to the development of tourism and I hope that the ministry will adopt some proposed amendments that can improve the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89281	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at 13 o'clock we will vote on the debated agenda points during these days and on the part of the late session or last session, there are several points. So the MPs are preparing themselves in a full war-prepared box with keys. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89282	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant. This is exactly the final proposal of the Tourism Service Act came at the right time just before the upcoming tourist season once again very successful according to previous announcements and the number of visitors so far. It is actually the result of the fastest debate and this reading we can really say is the result of all the entities that participate in the provision of services in tourism at all. It was more than satisfying and useful when it was on our board...... Give me a minute 'cause I can't say anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm being distracted by my colleagues. And colleagues, too, interfere. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89283	Don't interrupt! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89284	It was very useful to listen to and see representatives of travel agencies, chambers of commerce, boaters, all those who provide services in tourism, how much high-level consent they have expressed exactly support for this proposal. Why? Because it is this law that says no matter what we are going to comply with the acquis of the European Union that we are bringing this law in the first place for ourselves. Starting from the beginning with very clear terms in tourism, with very clear deadlines. I am particularly pleased that this law will enter on November 1st to prepare all those subjects within 6 months, as well as to be ready for the 2008 tourist season. Nomotechnically very unique, very consistent so that it can be said it will really be easy to apply, easily monitored, easy to carry out surveillance which this occasion confirmed what can most modernly be said that only administrative supervision and inspection and administrative supervision can produce results of a better quality of this law. For example, a very useful provision is that an economic inspector may, by means of a oral decision in the minutes, be prohibited by a legal and natural person, subject to certain conditions of work for 30 days. There is no more effective means and means than to forbid work if it does not comply with legal requirements. Of course, it adds, "After the written withdrawal, the dissatisfied party will be able to complain," but it will take away valuable days when it will no longer work which it will not be able to make up for during the season that is always short. In particular, what I would point out and it is accepted in this proposal is that, under the specific conditions laid down by this law and adopted under this law, certain tourist services can be provided by cultural institutions. But they can also be provided services in health tourism and can be provided by special hospitals and hospitals, which was very burdensome here for our special medical rehabilitation hospital in Makarska, which has already been functioning for more than 40 years. Which regains one legitimacy so that it can do so as it has so far. Of course Article 7 is all taxed. I would stop, what we needed, for example, to obtain a hunting, fishing, diving machine, even though diving would be resolved by a special law, was useful to mention and list it here, and to take care of it because, until now, it was uncovered and a large number of diving companies were doing it precisely to the harm of certain units of local and regional self-government by not paying any fees or concessions. The navigation of sailors and other documents needed to organise a variety of tourist offers. Of course, this law too is increasingly monitoring and seeking to protect the interests of units of local self-government, so for example it gives the possibility to visit tourist sites and localities in Article 7(4) only using an authorised tourist guide or, of course, to sell and book... the booking may be carried out on a water installation directly along the location of the berth of a water facility or at the accommodation facility of guests or in a space which may, by its decision, be designated by the representative body of the unit of local self-government or port administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or with the consent of the user of space through tourist agencies. This particular detail will very usefully serve to reduce one, I would say in mild words, a mess that rules in ports. Why? For the simple reason we need to bring a strategy on nautical tourism. What we need to know is what number is optimal for sailing on the Croatian part of the Adriatic so that every port, marina and port can truly welcome a number of ships, yachts and boats, not as yet because of great interest, trend. We have not yet been able to remove such a mess, so for example, I quote Trogir, Makarska, the town of Hvar, where only skilled, skilled maneuvers avoid larger seagulls on luxury yachts and boats which should not be allowed because we are always rising to safe ports, well-organised accommodations. The provisions on promoting competent tourism and tourist culture of young people were included, of course. Nothing has gone beyond what is truly said: We are open to the world because tourism cannot be closed. This is said by tradition in our tourism, abbey and Hvar tourism for more than 140 years and there must be no barrier to tourism, knowledge or ignorance of language or belonging to a particular people. What should also be said is a very complex modern way of registering tourist agencies. All solutions on the provision of services will be listed in the register of tourist agencies. With a good, good software and hardware you'll be able to really know at any time who founded it, who didn't set up whether it works and operates by law or not. What is also happy are the provisions which are, most precisely, settled in the Law on Mandatory Relations, a guarantee for a package of arrangements that can be given in the form of insurance policies, cash deposits or bank guarantees. It is also an insurance against the responsibility that gives a very clear indication as much as this law correspondence on the initiated reform of the entire judiciary so that we can achieve efficiency in the application of this law as possible. What needs to be particularly highlighted, and it is not enough to say that both issues are regulated in nautical tourism, that rural tourism has also been touched, which provides broad opportunities for all family members to engage in various stimulating means and usefulness that this tourism can give to those who are most interested. Because the most important thing in this rural tourism is its own product, tomato, cougar, grapes, wine, prosecution that it can offer on the shelves of its family pension and say exactly this are products made from organic clean parts made according to a traditional recipe that has been repeated for hundreds of years. For every product offered in the rural household should have its own story, just as good food is eaten more with the eyes than with its senses. This law was missing, because 11 years ago, the Law on tourist activity was passed nomotechnically and well-complicated. I believe that it will be over with a hundred percent majority adopted, so I welcome our representatives here at the head of the State Secretary that this is exactly the kind of approach including the widest circle of interested persons has received one result in this bill to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89285	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89286	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I consider the final draft law on the agenda today to be a good example of the cooperation of the resolution ministry and respecting the interest of the foreign Committee on Tourism, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Travel agencies and others for this law of interested professional associations involved in the drafting of this law. I believe that it contains a high standard both in nomotechnical terms and in a material and legal sense. Overall, the debate law represents a quality step in relation to the solutions that have been in place so far, especially given the new approach to the scope of certain services in tourism, which have not been regulated so far and the possibility of their work being done on black. Subject law introduced a series of news and introduced order into a previously unregulated area of services such as the provision of sports-recreative and adventure activities such as skiing, diving, sailing, riding, rafting, paragliding, Bundge jumping, and the like, whose offer is in significant increase due to tourists' interest in active vacationing. I welcome the assessment that the State intervention in this area is necessary because of the dangers and risks posed by these types of tourist activities, and that those services are prescribed to be carried out by highly qualified persons. Service providers shall be obliged to provide users with the consequences of an accident and the obligation for persons under 18 years of adventurous activities to be provided only with written consent from parents or guardians, as detailed in Article 56. In line with the tendency to introduce order in the field of providing services in tourism, it is proposed to introduce a register on tourist agencies and guides at the level of ministries, to increase the responsibility of travel organisers by prescribing mandatory insurance against liability for the performance of contractual obligations. I also find it acceptable to propose penalties for infringements concerning the illegal provision of services. Therefore, in terms of monitoring effective safeguards and giving greater authority to economic inspectors, a number of Croatian tourism problems will certainly be addressed. Since a meeting of the Committee on Tourism has been held when this law is discussed, the amendment which proposes and more substance determines the definition of nautical tourism in Article 44(1), as well as in Article 54, where, with specific forms of tourism, it is accepted that cultural tourism is also counted and that we show sensitivity to our cultural heritage, and on the other hand, we have the security of visiting cultural and tourist attractions that can be regulated later. I do not have any more significant comments, except I would suggest that the applicant review any other proposed provisions such as Article 34(2), it is said that an honorary tourist guide can carry out the tour guide’s tasks only occasionally. I believe that the term should be more precise at times, because regardless of good intentions, we are witnessing frequent abuses strictly undefined terms. It is also stated in Article 40(2) that when providing services, a travel companion must have confidence in the submitted examination which determines his capacity. I believe that it would be much more practical and resistant to wear if a tourist escort, modelled by tourist guides when providing services in a visible place, had cards for tourists who would be different by color or form from those tourist guides. I believe that this way of identification would be more acceptable to tourists than the proposed belief. The proposals and final provisions of Article 82 provide that the law enters into force on 1 November 2007, and Article 77 that the rules under this law will be adopted by the Minister within 3 months of the date of entry into force. Careful reading of the articles of the law can list at least 16 sublegal acts for which the minister is authorised to adopt them. Since we are in the pre-election year and are presumed to be held in November, a question arises which will be the minister responsible for tourism and when it will adopt the above-mentioned sublaws necessary for the functioning of this law. I therefore ask the applicant to adopt an amendment to which the law will enter into force on 15 September 2007, and sublegal acts will be adopted within 60 days. The final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, which essentially represents liberalisation from objects capable of providing services in tourism and largely extends the range of these services, can be seen as a modern legal project and compatible with the acquis of the European Union, and I fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89287	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89288	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Tourism is an absolutely important and important economic branch in the overall economic development of Croatia personally if we start from the fact that tourism has a significant multiplier factor when it comes to the economic sector, economy and perspectives in the development of the Croatian economy and thus tourism. The proposal for a law that answers basic questions on one hand, and that is the domestic task that we are dealing with under the proposed law, who can provide all services and under what conditions in the tourism sector, whether it is legal or natural persons. On the other hand, this proposal for a law is also the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in this segment with the acquis of the European Union, meaning with the legislation of the European Union. What I am particularly interested in is the provisions of this law which apply, let us call it agrotourism, i.e. rural tourism, in Chapter 5, where tourist services are spoken of in the peasant economy or in the family agricultural economy. I believe that Articles 49 to 53 are well-accepted and are well-proposed all of those, all the most important facts that are relevant when it comes to the development of tourism as a branch on, in the continental part, and mainly in the part where I come from the region of the Dalmatian mountain. Small urban centers of the Dalmatian mountain can offer with their tradition and their richness and culture and everything with a quality environment and a good environment of rural areas a variety that is needed and when it comes to the total tourist offer, given that the way and vacation spent by many tourists both domestic and mostly those from abroad no longer satisfy the sea. In other words, we want to take advantage of the opportunity and the opportunity that we have for all that is happening on the coast and in the island area to take that part of the cake and the Dalmatian Zagora. I believe that these very provisions of the article are well-defined provisions of all those who wish to participate. In Article 50(5), I think, it is certainly to commend that item where those rural households which are operating under the Household Act are already provided with a service, providing catering services, means that they do not have to seek out new solutions, are given new costs rather than on the condition that the basis of other provisions of this Act fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 49 that they are able to perform and provide tourist services. First of all, this refers to harvesting fruits and vegetables, picking summers, renting horses and all that can be provided by the Croatian village. On the other hand, by looking at the bill, we should certainly look at it in a broader context, which means a smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, but it will certainly reflect on the population policy in the name of the regulation of this area. When it comes to providing tourist services in the right sense, there is a chance for Croatia's village, Dalmatia's Zagora is given the right chance to develop its potential and to enrich the tourist offer. Well, here's what I wanted first of all to point out is what's most important in the law in view of and when it comes to rural tourism, agrotourism, and I think the proposed law should be supported. And in this segment, as I was saying, the motionary responsible ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has, by my assessment, made a great proposal to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89289	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89290	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Bitunac in his presentation, he looked back on agrotourism and his Zagora. So I'd like to add that I really think that when I talk about tourism, then you primarily think about our beautiful shores and clean seas and our islands where we invest considerable resources. However, more and more fortunately, agritourism is also being talked about by peasant economies, family agricultural economies. And that's where I see the opportunities for my county too, the werewolf-srijem County, where there are truly natural beauty, as we start from the Bosniak county... Vucedol and all areas around Ilock and the possibilities mean the development of tourism and the development of agrotourism and the provision of services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not talk about Slavonic famous specialties. I often hear stories about importing some bits or such products, and at expensive prices, they are sold on our market, and there are such quality products in us that we can offer both domestic and foreign tourists, and in this I see a significant possibility of developing this area which we know is at unemployment when it comes to county issues of over 30% and that there can be incentives and employment, and I think that in that, this rural tourism and agritourism then ethno village, apartments such as those in Slavonia earlier found that it is all something that needs to be revived and which provides opportunities for further development. I would also support this amendment that we have made. Many rural economies are often one or maybe two people or three people who cannot handle these jobs. And I think it's good to make sure that I can get a legal job, that that's exactly our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89291	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89292	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree and support these ideas that you have presented, but certainly the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia also give strong support to the development, evenly developing of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the inevitable fact is the Croatian village, regardless of whether it is in Slavonia, whether it is Dalmatia. And certainly we need to make further efforts to sell the Croatian product to all those people who come to our country, to our Croatia, because we all know that tourism is essentially an export branch, if it is seen a little wider, in one broader context and in that direction I think it will need to further strengthen the support of all those people who want to, legal and physical persons who want to deal with it and who want to enter the world of tourist offer and tourism as branches, should be given strong support because in the long run it will certainly have an impact on reducing unemployment on one side, but certainly on the rest of people and the survival of people in the Croatian village. In this direction of this idea and the hints that you have given, I am joining in advance and I believe that the competent ministry and government will continue to work to improve infrastructure, complete standard and everything else. When I speak standard then I think of the municipal sector, I mean the overall way of life in terms of solving those segments that are necessary for the village to become attractive, both for domestic and foreign guests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89293	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89294	Thank you very much. I will try to continue teaching on behalf of the club that I started yesterday on behalf of the HSS Club now in an individual debate to continue some topics, i.e. some dilemmas, i.e. trying to fix this good law, this good law and therefore allow me to immediately move on to Article 49. Article 49 refers to services in the peasant economy, a new, newly-ranked service which has received the right to vote, I have already said it is very good and it should be welcomed, it is this green tourism. Everywhere in the world, this green tourism will certainly win results in Croatia, and it is good that it is at the very beginning that we make clear exactly what we want from this tourism, in which way we allow it to be as successful everywhere in Croatia and how to relieve it of those greatest pains from which all segments of the Croatian economy suffer, which is too much bureaucracy, too much administration and simply as soon as the family agricultural economy or the peasant economy is mentioned, then we must bear in mind that these are not people who have daily contacts with institutions that are not used to the counters, who are not used to knowing the subject of this Law as well as the parliamentary representatives. We simply have to talk about such a form of tourism that is completely underdeveloped to do everything to develop it, but that those obstacles that cannot be skipped by those who will work are reduced to the least possible measure. This would result in a little controversy, and we will give the amendment to Article 49(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Actually, Mr. Secretary of State, I'll try to explain. We have limited the number of people who can visit such an economy to 50, I will return to the ethic eco-len in Pak's village. It is a place where 50 people come in, and there is, for example, an amphitheater where every Saturday and Sunday, they perform forgotten songs from that area, where there are cultural societies that mate "Ladu", where 500 people can be gathered to sit and enjoy something that is simply impossible anywhere else in Croatia to experience. It's one retrospective of our culture, our history, our knowledge that has been acquired through generations, and now I don't see any reason why this eco ethno len adheres to all the regulations and if it can receive more visitors than those 50 why do we limit it? I mean, what's our motive for limiting those who are for 20 people? They will receive 20, those who have 50 so let them receive 50, but if these can receive 200 so why not let them receive those 200, because I think what we will lose in terms of supervision and control if there are 200 instead of 50. Because you see in Article 50, in order to do certain catering services, he must provide services under the law, that is, a sublegal act that the minister will bring to meet the minimum requirements, and it is important that these minimum conditions are not as for a restaurant in Zagreb or Split, but that these minimum conditions be adapted to what we want to give. If we do not say in this economic or peasant economy that he must have his own wine, his own ham, his own cheese, that there must be sheep, lambs, what people need to see, on the right hand side, that there should be a retrospective of craftsmanship in that area. If he can't see anything else there than he'll see in any restaurant, then we don't need that kind of service in tourism. So we want something there. To grant them something else under minimum conditions, we must prescribe some other conditions than those that apply to restaurants, taverns, etc. Not to say that we have devastated our tavern so much that today every object is the easiest thing to get the name of a tavern, even those rural households that are now operating either under a tavern or under a tavern. So let's make one other seal, a stronger seal to make a brand out of it. I therefore propose not to limit the number of tourists, but to limit the number of tourists in Article 3. What should be limited? Quality of food, quality of services, mode of presentation, including language. The other thing I'd like to say is VAT. She's universal. We've got a drive-by in VAT. There are those who are at 10%, there are those who double tax themselves when it comes to certain trips, we have those who don't participate in that 10% VAT. I think it's a little matured time, and that's what everyone in the profession agrees that a 10% VAT in tourism equals for all participants. Why should only one enjoy the right and the other not? Let's just say this rural family economy doesn't enjoy the right to 10%, but it's at 22%. You don't know it or you know it. And let's say the hotel with all its services, the pension is whether, the package is 10% and now how we're going to put the rural family economy in a privileged position, and on it we charge 22% of the VAT to the farmer who manufactures himself, and these gentlemen who don't produce anything anyway, but all the imports and probably even those hotels aren't exactly our last names, we put it on 10%. I mean, that doesn't make sense. This is not a criticism of the law, this is a criticism of the universal fiscal policy of 10% in tourism that applies only to the chosen ones, and I think that these chosen ones, if one should be chosen, is this particular population, precisely this type of tourism that needs to produce results in the continental part of Croatia. And it can't produce results if we put it on condition that it has to meet as a restaurant in Zagreb or Split and if it has to pay VAT 22%, and these pay 10%. That's one universal criticism. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why for all 10% is the best option. We agree. ... There's another very interesting thing about using permits. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Namely, if you want to open your family economy under this law again now, you must have a valid permit. Now you've come to another big problem. It's very hard for you to get a valid license. I mean, it's what it is. That's what we got. But the strict application of that regulation, which will unfortunately follow from the first, will lead all together into a very invisible position. We're going to lead ourselves to the problem we don't need. That's why it's good to think about it now. The construction law is now in our second reading at the 9th month. Here, I call on you government, I've been saying that it's time to coordinate these very acts of the Construction Act, that we don't get into any trouble when this law comes to apply. It is applied somewhere in October, October 1st. That until then we have harmonised these other elements. And another very important thing. We think 16 regulations or sublegal acts must be resolved in this law. By October 1st, there isn't much time. I warned you about that. It's an election year, and the minister's busy, of course, like all ministers, and we have two things to take care of. Or we'll extend the deadline for those... I agree it's better not to extend. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I absolutely agree that it is better not to extend the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts for the adoption of those regulations that we need to adopt. But what if we do not have 16 sublegal acts by 1 October to regulate these minimum terms, rules, to determine how the law will be implemented? So I think we should try to solve what's now a burden, not just for this law, but otherwise. Inspections can only obey the law as it says. So I'm alluding to try and do that. Finally, a kind of tourism that is now in one problem, and it has many opportunities, the diving tourism that is now defined. I hope it will be included in these segments of tourism. It should also be defined that only one, one law valorises it. If it wasn't for...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89296	That there aren't 10 laws trying to put him on his feet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89297	Yeah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89298	It's very important, because it's happening right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89299	You just now... Now you'll still have a chance at the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89300	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89301	There's replicas now, and then... Honorable representative of the Slaven Letica on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89302	Listen, I feel a less valuable complex compared to the readability of tourist colleagues Markov. But he would draw attention to, that maybe the Radic brothers are turning in the grave because he's for Bukovica,... For Pak's village is talking about eco-ethnoland, so I would ask you to explain that branding closer and how you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're looking at it because it's a dangerous intellectual value from my colleague Markov, which I can't expect from you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89303	Now there's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89304	Thank you very much. I get, I'll totally agree with the Honorable Professor, Dr. Letic because he's absolutely right. But I wasn't saying that I think it's supposed to be called eco-ethnoland, but it's a name that owns the company that founded it so called it. I would like him to be called a more appropriate Croatian name. I could also very well, we could understand. I believe that even marketing success might be better built on the original name that Bukovici and our Zagora likes, than the one taken from another termology, from another time, from another world. And I believe it doesn't belong here. And those who come there, believe me, don't come because of the name. The name can be called any one. They're coming because of what's out there. And I invite you to have the Parliament, Mr. President, held there. And you don't need a microphone, Mr. President. ... Watch out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And there's an amphitheater we can all sit in. There's a special in the middle for you... And you don't need a microphone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Imagine how it was done. Acoustics is such that the one in the last row when he speaks, it's like Epidaurus in Greece to you. So there's such an acoustic that what a man did, it needs to be looked at, it should be given a reward except for a name. I agree with Dr. Letic. I would even suggest and I would suggest that the owner change his name to one acceptable Croatian name and titles that we will all share with foreigners, so that they will start using our names in their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89305	You knock on the open door. I was there on three occasions already, at that ceremony there so... And talked. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And spoke in a quiet voice. Second replica, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89306	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I think there's something to be said on this subject that my colleague Markov is talking about. Professor Letica has already highlighted or corrected something that I don't think is quite an appropriate name. But I think that Mr. Markov himself's commitment to this kind of tourism, too, I welcome all the initiatives and every contribution to better and faster development of tourism. But if we're talking about eco tourism, if we're talking about rural tourism, if we're talking about agro tourism, then I think it should be a lot more pawned in that direction, that it's an authentic environment, that it's a typical setting of a village, in this case a Dalmatian-Zagorsky or Slavonski, or I don't know which villages, because thanks to the beauty of our country, we have really extraordinary opportunities for the development of this rural or agro tourism. But I think you should say the same thing in this direction. In order for certain associations or institutions in the hospitality itself, and I mean the tourist communities, they should make a far greater contribution to human education. And I agree, i.e. I do not fully agree with Mr Markov that we should take care of standardisation and technical and hygiene conditions because one tourism in any part of Croatia is creating a total picture of tourism in Croatia. We must make sure that this tourism is at a certain level and we cannot go below certain technical and hygiene conditions or under those conditions to sell domestic or own products in the economy because there are also certain tax benefits, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89307	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89308	Thank you very much. Here, I'll agree as opposed to you who disagreed in some parts with me. I will fully agree with you. This is an open invitation to the Croatian tourist community to change its policy and focus not only on the Dubrovnik-Umag coast line but on entering our continental Croatia, to enter our villages and to implement that policy that we nominated the Croatian Tourist Community for, which is to value Croatia's tourism as a unique tourist product. On the other hand, unless we, unfortunately, have adopted our proposal to promote domestic production for Croatian tourism, we do not come to a very clear policy that we must produce domestic products that are the only ones who can and must consume in Croatian tourism because this is the only reason, because gastronomy is the Croatian motive for coming, because preserving Croatian production depends primarily on whether we will secure our own domestic market. Croatian agricultural production on the world market, gentlemen, has no chance and will not have them. If we don't secure it in Croatia, we can place our own production and if we don't brand our agricultural productions and gastronomic brands, if we don't make them so that the state not only subsidises but that it makes sure that small farms can be worn in a way that they can produce, that they can sell and that they can charge for it. Then there will be nothing from rural tourism, nothing will be from family economies and nothing will be from Croatian production, especially the production we all talk about together, which is the production from the village for the Croatian market. Therefore, I fully agree that the appeal should be made. But not an appeal. We do not appeal, we refer Croatia's demands to the tourist community to redefine its policy when it comes to new forms of tourism, when it comes to the adoption of new markets and especially when it comes to helping people who need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89309	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a few sentences I'd say directly on this topic and that's providing tourist services in the peasant economy. I think we should mention here, unfortunately, the data that is devastating. The Croatian village is empty, the depopulation is extremely large. A few figures tell us that 183 villages are completely empty, 2 thousand 408 of them have fewer than 100 inhabitants. So I would say this kind of tourism, this kind of free-saying rescue for the Croatian village is extremely important. And I definitely agree here with my colleague Markov who proposes and I think that this should be well considered to amend this Article 49(3), which speaks of the fact that the tourist services referred to in paragraph 1 of this article can be provided for up to 50 tourists at the same time. I think we need to understand what kind of tourism it is. I think the promoters came from only providing catering services here and then going to a certain limit in catering services. But look at a banal example. Children from the city of Zagreb or from some larger city who want to see something that is happening, perhaps for the first time in their life to see what animals look like domestically in the country, etc. now they come into such a family economy. And they come not with one bus where there are 50 of them but more likely with three, four. So one goes in and these three, four have to wait until these go out, etc. I think you have to understand that this is about specificities and the specificity is that here we are now trying in a very specific way to help the village and that now with any restrictions here to enter it wouldn't be good. Let's do these restrictions in a different way to standardize certain things, to help but also with the number of people I think we're making a mistake because I think we have to do everything possible to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89311	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89312	Thank you very much. I think it would be good to explain some things. No one's helping anyone. Croatian production does not help the Croatian tourism market, nor does the Croatian tourist market help Croatian production. They're, of course, mutually dependent on each other. If you want to have a good tourist brand, if you want a destination raised at the level that it is a destination then you have to meet certain preconditions that are assumed to be fulfilled everywhere in the world when it comes to the quality of accommodation services, then you know what it means, when it comes to branding a gastronomic offer then you know what it means. And in order for all of this to be adopted together, you must have one chain of values in the Croatian total economy that supports each other. This one chain of values is exactly what we're talking about, we have to have our own products that have the weight of almost certain cultural positions of that product, meaning one brand that's being sold and being involved in something called tourism experience. So, experience in tourism is one of the primary tasks of those who want to seriously create the Croatian tourist market and the Croatian tourist market is another Croatia. The potentials of the Croatian tourist market ranging from 1 million to 1.5 million visitors are the tourist market almost equal to the existing Croatian population of 4.5 million because they came to spend because they came with the intention of spending their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89313	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89314	Your Honor, Mr. President, this is exactly what Mr. Markov was saying. So, we need to make these important moves for Croatian agriculture to be in the position of Croatian tourism because the fact that we import 70% of food and food for tourism purposes is enough, I'm talking about it. But time is growing so that it is important to take timely measures regarding Croatian agriculture as well. But I will now look back on two important questions that Mr. Markov has raised. It's a matter of first-hand permits. There will be huge problems because of the facts especially in the region of Dalmatia and the Adriatic because we know that we have unsettled land books. The situation with land books is of such a nature, and in order to resolve the issue of a valid licence and all other things and minimum technical conditions, in order to obtain minimum technical conditions, it is necessary to prove the property issue or contract that you and the owner have concluded a contract to rent that part into those needs. It's gonna be a big problem, but we're not even aware of that fact. That's why I agree with this part to see and consider the Construction Act how and how to solve it. Because we will have the opposite effect of what we want to do because many will not get these conditions. Many will have to close their own, to provide their tourist services. And now, when it comes to the peasant economy, I agree with what Mr. Markov was saying. But here I must warn of the part about how much machinations were related to those parts so that, for example, under the cover of a peasant economy or rural tourism, food was sold to the neutochton, not food that was produced. Cheese was sold from Hungary, cheese from France, wine from Spain and only the name was a peasant economy. It is therefore important to enable our producers, farmers, and not to jump in to sell, to provide services of Chinese peasants, Hungarians or some third or fifths. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89315	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89316	Thank you very much. First, I agree with my colleague Kovacevic Per on the use of permits and problems especially in the Adriatic, which arise in the sense that we really have insufficiently clearly recorded property, cadastrian books that are not in line with real property, and we have in particular another major flaw, and that is not a particular trait of the public-sea goods. You know, on the islands and on the coast, it's one very important thing and one big burden for everyone who wants to do serious work and do serious business. For as long as this line is not established, until the line of public maritime good is established, you can practically not enter the system of ownership. You can't achieve the rights that you could have achieved on a spatial basis. You cannot simply start activities until there is a solution that the line of public maritime goods has been established. For what? It's simply because it limits all procedures, all procedures that have taken place. On the other side, Pero is absolutely right when it comes to machinations. However, it is not farmers and businessmen who produce domestic food who blame them for the machinations. It's too big for the machinations. It's the public authority's fault for the machinations. It is for the machinations that those who do not keep accounts and those who, instead of being put into the service of domestic production, put themselves in the service of the importer. They put themselves in the service of the stronger, serving them, raising them, and having them in all political parties. They don't just stand explicitly in one part. They organized themselves very well, and they want to prove that in Croatia nothing is worth it and nothing needs to be produced because we have everything out there anyway. Therefore, we should speak against them, and these young ones of ours who are suffering anyway, poor and have no one to sell and stand at home because we do not have organized purchases, we do not have an organised market and we do not have a preference for what we should have. So, fellow Pero, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89317	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89318	Thank you very much. Here, sir, Mr Markov said about the negative environment in which Croatian tourism operates, he emphasized only one fact, which is that the VAT rate is therefore the tax burden of Croatian tourism which is drastically higher than in our competitive countries. You know we are, the zero rate has been abolished for, on organised arrivals of tourism and has been introduced selectively, a 10% rate has been introduced for some forms of tourism. However, our competing countries have a differentiated rate between 6 and 8%, which automatically puts Croatian tourism at a disadvantage, in an unfavourable position already at the beginning. Secondly, others are present, other negative trends in the environment, in our environment, and this is the world, in which Croatian tourism operates, and this is the world recession. Then diseases such as bird flu, then terrorism, then trends, a reduction in tourist arrival, or the number of days that live, or multiple, multiple arrivals of tourists. And in all this, our Croatian tourism is still doing well. However, you did not mention the measures to be introduced. Here we have these new airlines, cheap airlines that bring tourists, and therefore some destinations that are traditionally tied to bus drivers are at stake. So here I especially think of Kvarner so where traditionally guests come by bus or bus. Also, I believe that they too need to be encouraged to do good business.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89319	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89320	Thank you very much. I would refer to that part that you asked your colleague quite justifiably, which is a matter of tax policy, above all, VAT in tourism. The fact is, when it comes to investment in tourism, that then Croatia is almost an unattractive country. I think we'll all agree. Why is that? I think tax policy and labour legislation are the biggest causes. Tax policy is simply dimming. We need to open up space and when it comes to tax gains to allow reinvestment in terms of building new capacities and in terms of raising higher standards to existing capacities. And those who reinvest to be exempt from profit tax. I mean, it's normal everywhere in the world. Because if it... No, we don't have a colleague, Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We therefore need to open the valves to make new investments in Croatia. We only have 120 thousand beds in the hotels, gentlemen. There are more of them from Venice to Trieste than there are in all of Croatia. And then they're still saying that we have rebuilding. Well, we don't have anything to do with serious hotel facilities. And if over the next four years we don't build 150, 200 grand, 200 grand, I think the Ministry is planning on some 300 grand in some period, then we can't deal with the competition. And the competition on all sides is surging. Turkey strengthens its capacities every year so that no one can track it. Therefore, we must seriously create conditions for creating new investment in tourism. Position these investments according to our space. Clearly, we won't allow space to contaminate in some way. But we need to know in spatial documentation exactly if we're going to make hotels, what hotels? In the end, even if the state interferes a little bit and structure in some way and owns these facilities, these hotels and thus create a "bum", a new "bum" in Croatia. Because the tourist "bum" in Croatia has not unfortunately occurred in the last 15 years when it comes to building buildings. It came about when it comes to popularising tourism and strengthening our activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89321	Thank you. Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89322	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The debate on this legislative proposal, this final proposal on the provision of services in tourism, certainly has a goal, i.e. the expectations of all those involved in the tourism activity, but also of the total, and of the generality of the public on the improvement and our progress on the development of tourism itself. The citizens have already been told for a good part of the years exactly and to the expense and development of other branches, let's say industry that just investing in tourism and the development of tourism is the only condition of our survival, and otherwise guaranteed a guarantee of our development. So, tourism is otherwise spoken of and separated as some deus ex machine that will solve all our problems and make us rich. However, whether this is the case and whether this law will ultimately contribute to it. Official of the Croatian hotel association Franco Palma is otherwise the head man of the Poreč Riviera, he said that in the past year Croatian hoteliers recorded less profit than even in the previous one, despite the approximately same number of guests and an increase in total traffic of approximately 4%. The salaries of Croatian tourist workers are below the average of Croatia, which is not a sure way of guaranteeing the development of the tourist branch. According to Palmi hoteliers, as many as 35% of Croatian hotel companies are at a loss, while 40% does not make a profit, and when we face such data, then it is clear that the senior state officials who were planning to visit this set of Croatian hotelers and restaurators have also cancelled the announced arrival at the last minute. There is also a question from the perspective of citizens and long-term trends to which all the settlements and local communities are exposed, i.e. the whole region with this and this, that is, with certain problems and unplanned developments, not to mention the space itself and the planning of the space that they are meeting, that is to say, in the very near future. Also, the increase in land-based fees, then the introduction of monumental rents and the constant increase of hotelers also consider one of the major problems of their growing non-profitability. Of course, it is now and from their point of view, but what all of us must be concerned about, or put in place, a normal attitude and protection of the worrying destruction of nature, an elevator of centuries-old settlements whose cultural heritage in certain cases enjoys the highest degree of monumental protection. So, it's growing somehow and that experienced belief that out of so many allegedly expected gains for the total population, especially the local population of tourism, few of which can only live, i.e. the total population, little or never, or nothing. Once part of the profits from tourism, let us remember those special measures, the redistribution was particularly invested, i.e. reinvested back into local self-government. Of course, those times have passed but nothing better has been found to substitute this something that would benefit the local community, from which the local community and its infrastructure would benefit. So, what is essentially wrong and what is the threat and why it needs to be especially careful. We are, above all, one of the few countries in the European Mediterranean that has relatively, which still has relatively preserved natural resources and very rich cultural heritage. However, Croatia's coast is experiencing an unpleasant combination of both exclusive and mass tourism that destroys local resources. So, in general, a focus on this exclusiveity, it in itself, and therefore languagefully makes it clear that such a single guest structure wants to separate the local population from these visitors, i.e. tourist. Of course, this is exactly why they are threatened to take away both cities and settlements, sometimes their space for this kind of tourism. And they get a little money back so they can compensate for that kind of damage, or disadvantages. Therefore, there is no doubt that a financial one works, or should first of all point out what financial and spatial effects of development are, i.e. tourism at all. On the other hand, the policy and construction lobby are devastating. We already see what is happening in Split, but not only in Split but also in many other cities. As an example, I will only point out that our Institute of Tourism and a consulting company established by the Institute of Tourism are such cartoons as to how little investment is made and how little comprehensively it is seen to develop this tourism, i.e. what it means to the local population, local communities. Those with financial capital, unfortunately, so painfully express low social and cultural capital. That's our biggest problem, but so is our danger. The Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the development of tourism among other things, but which has already shown itself, that is, in the future we will see if it really contributes to maintaining the existing urbanity or changing the vision of cities, settlements. Large taxpayers' funds are currently being invested where, and in these big mega-projects to dock the cruises. However, whether it is really in the interest of citizens and their improvement or in the interest of shipowners, tourist boards and construction lobbys, or in the interest and what benefits the local community will have very quickly. But what's at work is very dangerous. Just a few examples that I have pointed out several times over various debates, which fits right here in this debate, is the issue of managing not with space as some sort of imaginary air space but by having land owned by units of local self-government, and therefore by improving tourism. That's how it's given to the citizens. Example Posedarje and large mega project Posedarje Riviera d.o.o. A large public private partnership proved to be a simple purchase contract of the most valuable resource of between 2 and 3 euros, without the possibility and obligation to build any hotel complex there at all. Recently we read two days ago that exactly what is happening and what is going to happen in Hvar and in Jelsa will be sold out, 2 million land will be sold out, and in the meantime it will turn into construction land, for which we will get 250 million dollars, it will be spent quickly because it will even be invested, there is nothing to invest in because we will sell our land. Therefore, sell and sell under parol here, or buy original Croatian property. My colleague Antesic just before when a colleague talked about land books if they weren't arranged and if it were a roadblock, he said they were lucky they weren't arranged, because if we had arranged books maybe far away, far less squares would have been owned by us at all. There you go. These problems should certainly be taken into account to preserve our most valuable resource, which is land. After the painful creation of the state under its parole on their Croats must not be tenants in their own home because, especially tourist workers, they must now say better by the superiors in large foreign hotel complexes, an example in Zadar to drink Guten Morgen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89323	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89324	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct the inaccuracies that my colleague pointed out at the outset, which is that it's a disturbing destruction of nature in our country. Which is absolutely not true because nature has never been better protected than it is now. Let's remember the decisions they made in their own time, the central committees that a colleague tried to amnesty here in the Assembly yesterday compared to multinational companies that made decisions on the construction of cokers, cementers on the Adriatic, so high chimneys and the Bay of Bakar, the Gulf of Kaštelan ruined everything they could. Remember the decisions of the previous government that allowed the connection of illegally built buildings to the infrastructure where thousands and thousands of apartments were built everywhere, illegally. But they were sold neatly because they had water, sewers, anything they could do, right? So, I think this ministry is going to save everything that can be saved, thanks to your former government, and also to your predecessors you swear to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89325	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89326	You've corrected something like this that might be subdued by a replica institute, but not by correcting an incorrect quote. And he violated our Rules of Procedure, Rule 209. Well, then he's talking about some committees, I guess when he's at the party that he could be head of elementary school. But let's let it go now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89327	Thank you, dear colleague Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89328	I mean, I don't know who he's...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89329	The representative did not hurt the rules of procedure, did not hurt, please, no representative Markovanovic injured the Rules of Procedure. He was correcting an incorrect quote. But you cannot correct the correction. So this isn't your violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's your injury to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89330	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic said cities are being taken away from space for some tourist zones. No one can take away the city's space. And the other thing, cities and municipalities themselves define through their own spatial plans where their tourist zones will be. Unlike the time when the Central Committee set it up for them. As for land and land sales, so colleagues this government has made a decision that state land cannot be sold to anyone. This government has made that decision. And they're selling it, yeah, right, selling it, let's say, illegally, it's being sold by your SDP's on the Mljet where he sold over a million square meters of state land in an illegal manner. I really expect the State's Attorney's Office to take all the steps involved because it has a report. And yet another correction, counterpart Markovovic was not in the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89331	Is that what we're going to do again? Is that what the rules of procedure are about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89332	... A colleague was injured by the Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 because he re-replyed to me and did not correct it. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] That is, if there was some sort of correction in part, that is, corruption, but you treat it as a correction, he continued to replicate, and he came up, or he mentioned a fellow Commissioner from Mljet, which is absolutely incorrect, which he claims. And yet, it is true that if the state has made a decision to ban the sale it does, that is what Croatian forests do, a public ad is published, a public ad on the sale of land to which Croatian forests are available.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89333	He did not harm the Rules of Procedure, legislator Frano Matušić, but you hurt him again and again twice. He corrected the incorrect allegations and gave an explanation for correcting the incorrect allegations, as always by the MPs and you and others provide an explanation for the correcting of the incorrect allegation. And don't go under the company again, under the cover of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, correcting the correction of an incorrect assumption. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Ingrid, speaking of the difficult state of the hotel sector, she did not actually mention the biggest problem that is affecting the Croatian hotel sector, which is the unresolved issue of privatisation. In fact, as you know, 16 other companies are owned by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and to this day we are witnessing various privatization games without borders, and we could especially witness this in the abbey house of Liburni hotels where it could really be called an example, an example of the privatisation of the Croatian tourism sector just like that in the Croatian way. In fact, here, too, in a closer quarking environment here, six years already, the Rap Empire has a model of privatisation that has not been realised to this day. It's working on the dropper, and I'm afraid it'll be realised soon enough. And not to mention the Crikvenica Adriatic where there's still no way of monitoring how it's going to be privatized. And this is actually the fundamental problem of the development of the Croatian tourism sector because in this way it cannot develop until ownership relations are resolved. Then there's the problem with the Tourism Land Act. You know for a fact that the camps used by these companies aren't yet owned by them, it's unsolved. Then, unsolved concessioning of beaches, or unresolved maritime public goods. Now hotels have, using the beaches through concession approvals that last up to a year and actually have no motive to invest in the development of these activities in the long term. Therefore, it is necessary to resolve maritime public well-being as soon as possible, through long-term beach concessions, so that the hotel sector can develop in the same segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89335	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89336	Well, you've been a good colleague and you've come to understand my argument, and you've absorbed this burning problem of selling out our most valuable and non-renewable resource. The truth is that there are some legal, legal solutions that are being played, which are not applied at all, that is to say, the first law was passed by the government, that is, we have passed such a law here, so a question should be asked in which case and which square meter through the law of the first country bought. To God, they insist on some small security mechanisms, but on the other hand, the unseen isn't selling, but the sale I repeat our most valuable resource. Since '90. By 2000, we had company destruction, not to repeat that story, and now what's left. And then what?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89337	Dear Representative Walter Drandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89338	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Tourism today is certainly the best channel for the sale of Croatian products and services, tourism is the simplest and easiest way to export Croatian products and services, but at the same time unfortunately tourism is still few tourists for that, for the sale of our Croatian products and services. I'm sure it's easier to sell a product to a German, for example. from Frankfurt beach, hotel, restaurant, store, Split, Pula, Plitvice, Kopačka rit, Zagreb, rather than perform and sell the same product on the German market where this tourist comes from. Tourism essentially brings exports to the market in Croatia and thus creates a huge synergy effect on the whole economy because there is practically no product, there is no service that cannot be sold today through tourism as exports to the channel. But at the same time, tourism is a good channel to sell everything we produce in Croatia, and that is unfortunately very little. As good as it is, as good as it is, as good as we create good tourist products that we offer tourists. There is only one thing missing from Croatian tourism today, which is quality, lack of quality, lack of quality of facilities, quality of services, lack of experience, and very much progress in the past few years thanks to significant investments in increasing this quality is still insufficient in Croatia's overall tourist product. Tourism is an experience, and we will be as successful as a tourist country when in the heads of people in Europe and wider Croatia is an association of good holidays, good experiences. And instead of exhausting ourselves in the missed debates that I am listening to, and in other types of whether Croatia needs elite or mass tourism and similar inventions, it would be better to concentrate on how best Croatian product can achieve a high level of quality regardless of whether it is destinations so-called. elite or mass tourism, how Croatian tourism can achieve the quality of four stars. The quality of tourism is not dependent on its form but on what we offer tourists and often reviews of tourists from some countries are reportedly bad guests, guests who spend a little and so on, but at the same time tourists from those same countries are very welcome guests in some of our neighbouring tourist competitive destinations. So it will be that it is not a problem for tourists but is a problem in us, in our product that is still not good enough and not offering enough. A tourist can buy as much as we offer him and nothing more. Tourism without large numbers and quality-free tourism has no results and has no synergies with other activities and has no impact on the national economy. It is important for us in Croatia to move faster from that tourism, beautiful sea and bed to the tourism of various experiences. Today, tourism is crucial to what the guest experiences far more than where he sleeps. It is normal to sleep in a clean and decorated room or apartment, but it already has in all serious destinations. It's not an experience anymore. Experience is something else, and that is what attracts, what is purchased, and even at significantly higher prices than we are selling today. There are good examples, examples are successful tourism companies, for example. in Istria, a link in the development of Istria's tourist product between the private and public sectors, various types of tourism experiences from top wellness, enology and gastronomy, bulls, sport extremes, submarine sports to agrotourism and many other products. With the reduction of accommodation capacities in particular in Istria, higher revenues are made not only in tourism companies, but also in many small businesses dealing with tourism and living from tourism. I support this Law, I think it is very important as a fundamental legal basis for creating a quality tourist product that is made up of a whole series of services in tourism, but not only in tourism, but also in all accompanying activities that place their products, their services through sales channels that create and open tourism. I also support the amendment of the Committee on Tourism, which in any case improves this legislative proposal. It is also necessary to implement a series of amendments to sublegal and accompanying acts under this Act because I particularly wish to underline the rules on categorisation. It is necessary to allow modern trends to enter the tourist offer, to enter what tourists are today asking to get the minimum comfort they are taught at home. I'll just say one example. At the hotel's categorization, we still have a five-star hotel with a hot and cold tub. It's like something really big, whether or not an investor. In the bathroom he builds the most luxurious hydromassage bath he must install a bath with hot and cold water. Imagine the torments of these hotel investors who want to create a top quality product, and we, like this and some other solutions that are already overcome, are making it impossible or needlessly expensive for them to invest. It's like this shift in quality, that's exactly the shift in the hydromassage cabin, not the hot and cold bath. So we need quality. But who creates that quality? Quality is only created by humans. People who want to do this hard and demanding job have unfortunately less and less today, say, in Istria, almost no one wants to be a cook, doesn't want to be a waiter. Turns out it's kind of a shame, that it's a shame to do your job fair. And often we, we politicians, trade unionists, are the generators of such commitment. Investing in people is the most important thing. And there's a need for big changes. From a school system that needs to teach children that honest work is not a shame but a pride, that good cook, waiter or some other profession is a very decent job, to the relationship with these same workers in tourist companies for whom increasing the quality of our tourist product should absolutely result by increasing wages and better working conditions. Because otherwise, we'll only have import labour. And as good as it is for people who work in tourism to speak foreign languages, it would still be good for them to speak Croatian. Where we, the Croatian Parliament, can make the biggest contribution is in any case, these legal solutions. I would especially underline tax policy. I think that the zero VAT rate gave very good effects for Croatian tourism in the time after the war when it was due to invest and that 22% left for tourism companies at the time helped to make certain investments in tourism and to move our tourism forward and achieve these results that we have today. The differentiated VAT rate of up to 6% for which the IDS advocates would lead our tourism to be competitive compared to other surrounding destinations. Tourism looks nice, tourism is an experience but those who deal with tourism are every year, every season in the war. In a war with competitive destinations to attract guests to be as good as possible, better quality and to give more favourable conditions to people who come to us as best they can, the greater they experience. If we do not help them with our legal solutions, primarily in the tax system, then we cannot expect great results either for tourism but also for the entire Croatian economy, for which I repeat once again the best channel of sale, the best channel of exports of Croatian products and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89339	Thank you too, colleague Drandic. The word is from a colleague named Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89340	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives! We all agree that tourism is an extremely important Croatian branch and there is no dilemma in that. Unfortunately, only the town of Prague generates greater total tourist income than all of Croatia's tourism combined. On the other hand, Croatia has 6 thousand kilometers of coast, counting around each island. It is also clear that not a single economy can rest on tourism alone, thus not only the Croatian economy can rest. Istria cannot rest alone on tourism, let alone Croatia. For example. in Istria in the gross social product, the industry is absolutely in the first place represented by 33%. Unfortunately, in Croatia, in the gross social product industry means, according to the country's level, only 21.22% is represented. Shop in Istria is second with 27% and only third place is tourism with 11%. Then construction comes with about 9%. And now the question is, how do we proceed? Croatia and Istria, as Valter Drandić spoke earlier, need a top-notch tourist product and a clear year-round tourist product. Just means that top-notch tourism can also bring appropriate social status to our workers. Just so it doesn't happen to us clearly, that we have tomorrow or ten years of elite tourism and workers who will be social cases in such... It just can't go together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is certainly a greater guarantee that workers will be paid better in elite facilities than in the ones they are working on today. In the last 40 years it means or 45 years, it has been affected on the Adriatic by nearly 600, 700km of new construction. It is also true that our coastal cities lived in the 1970s and '80s economic boom. In the '90s, there was an industrial collapse. And in 2000 or after 2000, after it was definitely clear that the Balkans had been Pacificed, there was an outbreak of apartments. Unfortunately, in the last 17 years on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, let us now let the City of Zagreb, I am now talking about sea tourism, not five new hotels have been built. So there's not five new hotels built all over the coast that would have more than 150 beds. I don't think it means adaptations to that, reconstructions. A lot has been done in the meantime, not clearly enough. But let's ask ourselves, how many new hotels with over 150 beds were built on our shores? Two such new hotels were built in Umag. In Rovinj, if I knew, none. In Poreč, none. In Opatija, not a single one. Not a single one in the river. Nothing in Dubrovnik. Let's let go of the adaptations. I'll say it one more time. Half the capacity hasn't been restored there either. No such new hotel was built on Hvar. On Losinj, on Cres, nothing. Nothing on Bratsch. On Rab, nothing. Nothing in Split. And that's one huge problem to talk about, too. And why is that, among other things? Because Croatia still has not defined this status so-called tourism land that did not enter the core capital of the privatised hotel houses. First of all, the IDS managed to challenge thousands of hectares of such land in Istria, from the "Adriatics" of over 200 hectares to Agrokor some 600 hectares in Poreč. From Riviera to Blue Lagoon. From Laguna, Novigrad "Istraturist". True, our parents sold 100 acres [100 ha] in Barbariga, or Dragomer, as well. But what am I saying? Without a solution to the status of the tourist land, there will be no investment in tourism. Second. What hasn't Croatia solved yet? Well, we haven't been able to solve a single Liburnia status. We're unable to resolve entry... Holding at that company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I doubt that soon the judgment of the Trade Court when it comes to Opatija or "Liburnia" will be different from the arbitration decision of the Chamber of Commerce. And I am keenly interested in how this one situation will be resolved within 15 days of the fact that Prime Minister Sanader has promised that the city of Opatija will come to a dominant position. Not yet, gentlemen, the status of the largest hotel houses in the Adriatic has not been resolved. Podgora and Živogožje are now going to the 6th competition. For 73.17% of the Podgora hotel, the initial price is required to be one kuna. For 18.18% Liveliness is also the starting price of 1 kuna. That's 50 km from Dubrovnik. For the Crikvenica “Adriatic” initial price of 1 kuna, but the core capital of that “Adriatic” estimated at 506 million kuna on the other hand, this “Adriatic” has unsettled obligations of 360 million kuna. The “Adriatic” has been blocked for how many years, not months. Payments are paid through the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The trade unions are clearly asking for someone to go inside, even with that one kuna to make commitments to commercial banks because otherwise everything will simply collapse from itself. Here you are, gentlemen, and that's Croatian tourism this year. Let's not do it, that's what I'm trying to say to minorize, but let's not even apostrophe when it comes to tourism. Not nearly as well as many in this assembly or in the ministries or in the outside, I don't know in Croatia. Any law that corrects the status of tourism should be welcomed and so much should be welcomed clearly and this law that will not again adopt any revolutionary changes. Not to forget that elite tourism also keeps space from apartmentisation, but it also carries development even through construction. For example, a Camp "Kempenski" which now enters Savudri means an investment of 120m euros that is well-restricted. But the state budget will only bring between 25m and 30m euros through VAT. What is the biggest problem that Walter was talking about when it comes to, say, Savudrija in “Kempinski” in Istria, which simply has no workers. What's wrong with us, here's my best man looking for a chef. Starting with the price of 1,000 euros, let me see who gets back to him. I'm sure they won't find him in Istria. But what am I saying? This "Kempinski" will work 365 days. The biggest asset close to Istria with Italy, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, luxury, that brand of wolf that goes with it. The wages will be better than elsewhere, only I know that not a third of the workers will be from those Istrian spaces. I repeat, tourism is extremely important. Only from tourism and I will repeat it cannot be lived and it must be understood by the citizens of this country. I repeat, Istria, which has 7 times the profit of the total, Istrian tourism has 7 times the profit of all Croatian tourism together, is tourism as the third economic branch, and in the first place is industry. It is good that this law speaks among other things about agro tourism. Istria went the farthest way here. We have these 200 objects. But how much? That's what I'm saying because of the Istrian public, these 200 buildings of the economy? About 5 million euros. It's good to hide another 5 million, that's 10 million euros. Only “Cimos” exports 80m euros from Buzet, but it is certain that we need this agro tourism extremely because a man from that village, from that property, can use the property for himself and create a job. The stories of Croatian tourism making $7 billion in that total balance for me are simply a mirage. I don't believe that. The boaters keep calling me, asking me to have, not to pay these tolls and the rest when the ships don't drive on the roads, they need to come out and meet them. Man needs to be clearly allowed to work, so it will benefit everyone, both the individual and local self-government and the state and the national economy. Croatia will no longer be at war. God forbid it ever happens to anyone again. Croatia will no longer see lost season as well as '99 due to NATO. which led to the negative growth of gross social product that year, and in due course, tourism will be increasingly and more invested and it is certainly good. What is the basis of this tourism is that people are allowed to work, to resolve the status of tourist land. It's tax policy, VAT. I was talking about it yesterday. The tax revolution would only be achieved if VAT was paid within 60 days, and not within 30 days, and I appeal that VAT is differentiatedly introduced to this tourism. It is good to end after the time is out to talk about this Tourism Act, but once again, I am stressing only from tourism this country cannot live.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89341	Tell your colleague Cain, would you like to patent this model that ships are going down the road?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89342	They pay toll at the price of gasoline, which is inadmissible, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89343	You don't have to answer to me! But it's a strange thing for you to have ships on the roads. Thank you, dear fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89344	Let's assume that they, like the other fishermen, only pay for this blue oil or what they call it. Blue diesel. Excuse me. That's what we stand for. That's what we're asking of you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89345	Okay. He's got a replica of a fellow Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89346	Unfortunately, I have to answer because my colleague Cain said that Podgora is 50 km away from Dubrovnik, which is not true. I was born downstairs, so people would resent me. 162 km now that the bridge is built 150 km. However, I conjecturely disagree with the way he imagines the development of tourism by counterpart Cain. I think further building new capacities is the wrong strategy, Croatia should have 3 visions of tourism development. The first is the completion and reconstruction of the comforts of existing objects. Second, state secretaries should stimulate people to put roofs on, to put on facades, to paint houses and the third extension of the season. All three are fundamental and the fourth is the expansion of tourism from the Adriatic to the continental area. It's all in conflict with the concept that counterpart Cain advocates, but I'll sit down with him later, and I'll try to explain to him why he's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89347	It's a replica of a colleague of Peru. Here you go. A colleague of Cain, a colleague of Peru has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89348	We can always drink.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89349	A colleague of Caine's?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89350	What about the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89351	And there isn't, so you had to apply for an answer. ... Please, I can hardly see through my colleague's flight, but you didn't show. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] If you applied, then I believe my colleague Kramaric. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89352	There's no problem, Slavena, we can go get coffee and I think I can convince you that you're wrong. Croatia, among other things, must go to elite tourism if it wants to protect its space. It can in some ways protect existing space. We must attract the relevant capital as well. This country is simply under-represented in terms of investment, and we ourselves do not have the means to launch additional growth. The existing hotel houses, which have mostly become the property of banks at the expense of re-valorised ones, and previously paid loans before they think about how the hotel houses will sell, earn profits rather than invest in them. And on the other hand, you can see for yourself what happens when private investment funds such as the Home Group enter through the form of coupon privatisation in tourism, I don't know about SN Holding, which in 15 years almost didn't invest anything in any Opatija or in any Poreč that I don't now mention what companies are talking about. Therefore, we simply need to attract investments,... to get these contents because it will benefit the entire community, and so will we sitting next to this, in this House, because through investment, if nothing else in the state budget, 22% of VAT will be combined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89353	Replica, he's got a colleague of Peru. Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. During his debate, counterpart Cain said he was alive interested in ending the Liburni Riviera case of hotels from Opatija. Well, I think it must be clear to you how it ends. It cannot end any different downhill to possibly increase the government in a way that breaks over the back of Croatian citizens' taxpayers. Because you know that the legal work is done. On the one hand, the government, on the other hand, Mr Ostora-Jeltz, and that the eventual termination of this contract will cost 900 million kuna, somewhere almost a billion, because Mr Jelc and Ostoj are not, not living out of patriotism but out of kindness. And they got that job, that's their money. If the government wants to fulfill the promise made to the city of Opatija, which has a few days left to the City of Opatija, we have heard that the mayor is also threatening to quit, this can be done, the job is terminated because the court's decision cannot be different from the decision of the Chamber of Commerce. Because it's only logical and normal. Therefore, this guff of the government, which would have already been achieved if there had been no resistance from the local community, had there not been political parties, but not the ruling ones, because they were in it, would have ended up the way it was, and in the end it would have been beaten again on the backs of Croatian citizens, Croatian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89355	Replication response, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89356	Here's Mr. Slaven Letica telling me that there's not been a suspension of this racket maybe a lot could have been resolved in Opatija. But joke aside. To be like this, to correct myself then, Mr. Peruscoe, then I lively interest in the promise of Ivo Sanader. If not, then how will the status of Lebanon end on this basis, how will the Government resolve the entry of the House and SN Holding. But I also doubt that the verdict of the competent commercial or administrative court will be significantly different from the arbitration decision of the Chamber of Commerce. And I would also like to get rid of the status and these other Croatian houses on the Adriatic that are simply stagnating, starting with Podgorica, here I am now correcting 150 kilometers away, from Dubrovnik, Živogosce. They were at 6 competitions, the starting price of 1 kuna. No interest in Crikvenica Adriatic, one of the most prestigious destinations on the Adriatic, is also the starting price of 1 kuna. Payments are not paid from the business of the company but from the loan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I don't know how long. The unions are looking for the most urgent privatisation. At least I know the next day when someone comes that they will be welcomed by an enemy environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89357	Well, before that, he definitely owes the company. A colleague, Kramarić, on behalf of the HSLS club for five minutes. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this topic is actually more complex than if it can be at first sight and looks. And I am afraid if we are soon here in Parliament, but not only in Parliament, but in the Croatian public at all, we should open a debate about what our colleague Latica in that replica has actually made clear, he asked whether Croatia actually has a clear and long-term vision of tourism. We have to ask ourselves what tourism is to us and what we are to him. I have such a mild feeling that we see it as that cow's mazar, what we've been given to God is given. And then we put it in such a nice place and we think it's a non-consumable loan. God forbid it's like that, but it's not like that. Tourism isn't some story that I don't know lasts for centuries on the seventh, it's a matter of certain civilization, cultural change, habits. And in all of us it may not be, that is, there are normally these locations, destinations that celebrate over 100 years of tourism, such as Hvar, Opatija, or elsewhere. But it's about the same story that started there in the '70s. Now you should see what we've been doing in the 70s, or since the 70s, that's what's really changed. I'm afraid something dramatic hasn't happened. It still dominates the cult of the night. Well, then you're also reading the paper, and I don't know how many nights we've made compared to last year or last year. And I'm afraid with one such approach we won't get far. The '90s. the years have been stressful and, in fact, always, like any evil or every crisis is not evil in itself but always has, the original Greek word is just saying that after the crisis things can happen worse or better, something would be taught. And indeed some of the things that made us troubles to start acting differently, from that monotypic approach to tourism, we discovered that there were also some stories that belonged to some of our traditions that my colleague Markov was talking about. And then it turns out that we give this really old story the wrong label, the wrong attribute, and it's actually showing again that in these times of globalization or modernization, we're actually not getting the best of it. So then exactly that actually makes us think that what's called... Roma or so forth that it sounds better than these names like Wolf's Landing or I don't know the Fox's Nest or the Eagle's Nest or how it belongs to some of our traditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the same colleague Cain rightly speaks, or notices that no new hotel complex is being built. Then again, the same thing needs to be found for reasons why not, motives, why something isn't being built. but on the other hand, having one terrible apartmentisation and concreteisation of the Croatian coast doesn't know that it is back 15 years from 150km to 850km, that means almost 6 times and then you wonder what would be a more important distinction between one case of Spain, Portugal and Croatia. Is it true, if we really need to follow those bad examples right now, or is it some kind of delay or delay in history can be an advantage if we have a clear relationship. And what when the whole thing, when it's done, just like this kind of bill that must somehow be in line with the European Union, then it seems to me to be really fast again, to avoid this kind of public debate, just that the public in some way is actually taking part and that it actually creates this one of our not-one visions anyway, but let's see what's optimal for Croatia. I'm saying this is how it seems to me that we're really going to have a cult number of nights,... The tourist community of Croatia is making revenues according to the fact, and not according to someone else, then we don't know ourselves and some new offers, and then we see that some new sensations that interest us don't know the European tourist that in some way if you're doing it mechanically on our occasions then you have problems with these, on raftins, each of us, now we'll start to read how many Czech tourists have gone somewhere, so it can't go back, how many of them are stuck, how many have landed with a dragon, so they've fallen somewhere and say what's happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's go back to this one, so I don't forget this concreteization. This opens up these environmental problems that Croatia has not solved, communal problems, the Vira case. When I was a few years ago I just stopped by to see, it really came to us that the moment you ran away, that there about two months lived over... thousands of people, and actually that entire possibility of municipal infrastructure is actually for some, probably with one zero less, then normally there are then some of our politicians building without these permits, they also think they're taking everything that life gives them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And something that must also be said, I can see that, but allow me another sentence. These incidents that have been happening to other tourists lately are also actually the consequences of one of our ideologies exactly that, which very often some way... from the media and from politics, so we don't know about the Czechs, and we forget what the Czechs meant for the start of Croatian tourism, and now I don't know about Czech tourists... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They belong to that tomato, pasture tourism, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all things that will ultimately have a huge impact on our and European image, but I can guarantee that unlike some of our politicians, Czech tourists at least read.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89359	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89360	Like this, I'm really repeating and hotels protect space. Without them, everything will be affected by illegal construction. But I want to correct one false allegation. In the last 17 years, this coast hasn't been affected in these 600 kilometers. In 1960, it was built about 150km of Croatian coast affected by construction. Today, 40 and 7 years later, even 800 and a few miles [800 km]. So we've hit shores over 500 miles over the last 47 years. Why? The cities were during the '70s and so on. We developed faster, we industrialized part of the coast later in the '90s, and we ruined it all, and 80 people built those cottages, and after 2000, it started to pop up, apartments started to pop up, and today construction suddenly becomes one of the first economic branches in the Republic of Croatia, which is not very good when it destroys space.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89361	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89362	All I have to say is that my colleague Caine, whom I greatly appreciate, is I wasn't talking about industrialization. No, I wasn't talking about industrialization, I was talking about concreteization.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89363	That's what, that's the style of the boat going down the road. Okay. We're finalizing a debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89364	He's taking the boat down the road, but he's paying the toll.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89365	We're going to the next point, but not in order, but preferably. Excuse me, final. ... Thank you, dear colleague Kovacevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89366	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here is, on behalf of the ministry and on behalf of the Ministry, one thank you for the commendable words that also the clubs of the representatives, committees, especially the parent committee, and individual debates praised this Final Proposal of the Law. I think he's on to a good solution that will bring new conditions of development, especially continental tourism. We have made an emphasis this year on our activities as a ministry of support, programmes and so far in the credit lines for the development of rural economies and I think that I have proposed the law along with these amendments that we will accept will be the good solution in line with the European Union guidelines. Today a lot has been said here, I am even positively surprised that parliamentary representatives deal with such good information when it comes to tourism problems, but there are certain things that are not in place, but here we will stick to the topic. I thank you again for the debate and I'll see you at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89367	Thank you very much, dear colleague Micic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89368	Final proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism. Amendment, there are amendments tables. First we have two amendments, two amendments submitted by the government after the deadline. We should discuss and vote first whether we will debate and vote on these amendments. Please, let's get on with it. I'm asking for a result. 77 for. 12 abstentions. And six against. We'll vote on those amendments. Amendment 1. Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89369	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendment 1 to Article 22(3), point 3. In Article 22, paragraphs 3 and 3 of this Article, the following words are added: The Croatian language knows the extent to which it is sufficient to carry out the work of the Head of Business. Explanation: Since the performance of the business manager's business is to a greater extent related to the business of users of tourist agency services who are tourists and passengers need a championship in order to protect and carry out these tasks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to the extent sufficient for them to be performed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89370	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 8 abstentions, 3 against Amendment 1. Government. Amendment 2. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89371	Amendment 2 to Article 27(2) of point 4 of Article 27(2) of point 4 above is added as follows: "and knows the Croatian language to the extent sufficient to provide tourist guide services.". The same explanation as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89372	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 90 for, 7 abstentions, 3 against. Amendment accepted. Now we have 21 amendments to the MPs. Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Based on Article 238a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes to hold a vote on the remaining amendments by raising hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89374	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we'll vote hand-to-hand. Amendment 1. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89375	The HSP representative club shall be replaced by the words "these decisions" in Article 7(5): "which may be decided by a decision" and shall be replaced by the words "these decisions" shall not be adopted. The law cannot impose obligations on units of local self-government that they must set up places for the sale of goods services because it is the right unit of local self-government to manage and dispose of properties owned.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89376	Representative Tonči Tadic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89377	We still believe, Mr. President, that this amendment must enter into the law. Otherwise, the total chaos of small boaters' advertising will continue, ongoing disputes will continue between local self-government and small shipmen over where they can advertise their services. We believe that the city council, the municipal council, so local self-government should identify locations where small shipmen can be offered services. With this you can, you don't really have to. And we'll have another season full of disputes, full of conflict. After all, the Croatian Parliament adopts laws and many others that are binding on local self-government. This is not the only law where we would commit local self-government to something of general interest. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89378	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, the club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89379	The amendment to Article 15 shall not be accepted. The explanation is the term "own means of transport" includes vehicles owned by the service provider but also the one used by the service provider by the basis of the lease or lease contract and the addition of the proposed surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89380	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89381	Your Honor, Mr. President. We think it is necessary to add the possibility that the travel agency transports passengers and vehicles, i.e. by means of means of means of transport in lease or lease. In Croatia they are renting and leasing to substitute ownership in our legal system and can also be used here. There's really no reason to reject this amendment of ours. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89382	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, please, the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the SDP, let me read it first and then you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89383	The amendment to Article 22(2) shall not be accepted. Adding the conditions of good conduct of the Croatian language in speech and letter in that provision would mean introducing a restrictive condition for freedom of service, as indicated by the representatives of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89384	Who's going on behalf of the proposer? Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89385	So I don't see just any reason why they wouldn't support how those who do something in Croatia and how well they rule Croatian in speech and in letter. It is a daunting circumstance for them, especially for those who bring them to Croatia if they are engaged in bringing tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89386	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth, HSP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89387	The amendment to Article 22(3) shall not be accepted. The explanation, there is no need to further clarify the term "responsible work" since under this concept only business and the sale of tourist services by a tourist agency should be understood. Such jobs can provide knowledge and skills other than the experience required for the business of the business manager, not the auxiliary business of assistance, the business of a tourist companion, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89388	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89389	So it would be better if it was prescribed. But if it bothers you so much, I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89391	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 5. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89392	The amendment to Article 23 shall not be accepted. The applicant considers that there is no need to amend the system of passing expert examinations for the Head of Business with the current way of determining commissions, programmes and their implementation at high schools which are staffed, given the programme under examination justified by such a way of passing an expert examination for the Head of Business. Certain changes, programmes and methods of passing exams in order to improve them and... They'll get rid of the rules for the implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89393	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89394	Here you go. The essence of this amendment is that expert exams for business leaders, guides, etc. transfer to the responsibilities of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who are already working on passing these expert exams, such as in road transporters. So there's really no need to transfer it to high schools but to the competent chambers. This is the meaning of this amendment to Article 23 of the amendment to Article 29 and to Article 39. I demand the vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89395	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89396	The amendment to Article 26(4) shall not be accepted. For the purposes of the amendment to Article 22(2), the addition of the conditions of good conduct of the Croatian language in speech and letter in that provision would mean the introduction of restrictive conditions for the freedom to provide services, as indicated by the representatives of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89397	Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89398	Well, this is a very unusual explanation. In fact, we would make it difficult for a foreign entrepreneur to work in Croatia. If the Croatian entrepreneur works of course he must speak and write Croatian, but the foreign entrepreneur does not have it. So we're looking for a vote. We can't accept this argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89399	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seven. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89400	The amendment to Article 26 shall not be accepted in view of the obligation to bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, the adoption of this amendment would mean the introduction of a restriction on freedom and the provision of services, contrary to the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which has been warned by the representatives of the European Commission. We also believe that there is no need to further determine the tourist and localities relevant to the Republic of Croatia because we believe that all tourist and civilian local sites that will be covered by the list in paragraph 7 of this article will find a place on that list precisely for reasons which will be assessed of special importance for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89401	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89402	The purpose of this amendment is that a special regulation determines the critical elements on which the guide can only be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. This is not news, the Italians also have, and besides all negotiations with the European Union in all chapters recognise the protection of public interest, i.e. the protection of certain national specificities. These can therefore be national parks, localities, or world heritage on the UNESCO list, significant cultural historical monuments that are important for Croatian national identity, old Croatian... The localities, the places... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in the time of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want to let tourists lead Dubrovnik, someone who shot Dubrovnik, someone who shot Vukovar. You'll forgive me, nor do I want to let someone come to Hvar tomorrow from Italian guides and say it's theater... That's what this is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a key amendment that depends on our support for this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89403	Please vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89404	The amendment to Article 29 shall not be accepted. The promoter believes that there is no need to change the system of passing expert examinations of the tourist guide and the way so far... The Commission, the programmes and their implementation at higher universities which are staffed according to the test programme, justified this way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for tourist guide, certain changes and programs, way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in order to improve them and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89405	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89406	As with the amendments to Article 23, we believe that expert exams can be carried out in a crafts and economic chamber. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89407	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. HSS and SDP representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89408	The amendment to Article 37(3) shall not be accepted. Adding... The Croatian language in speech and letter to that provision would mean the introduction of restrictive insights for the provision of services, as indicated by the representatives of the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89409	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89410	The amendment to Article 39 is not accepted. Since the final proposal for the law does not provide that the examinations for a tourist companion can be organised by the Tourist Agency, the Professional Association, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which is also an extended round of those who can organise these tests on the proposal of professional associations, we do not feel that there is a need to change the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89411	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89412	For the same reasons as before, expert exams must be held in the crafts and economic chamber. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89413	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11. The Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89414	The amendment to Article 44 shall be adopted in the amended form by adding the word "and a ship for personal use and for economic activity" to the brackets behind the word "ship for economic activity". Since Article 46(4) provides that, inter alia, the Minister rules out the types and categories of water objects of nautical tourism do not require in particular to indicate only passenger ships and yachts intended for economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89415	The Tourism Committee. The president? Representative? There isn't. Then we must vote on this modeled amendment. ... For this part, as proposed in the amended form, a representative of the Government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Amendment accepted. 12. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89416	The amendment to Article 49 shall not be accepted. We believe that there is additional activity in the peasant economies and that the limit to 50 persons whose tourist services can be provided should remain. The limitation of the number of persons who can provide catering services in the peasant household is also subject to the Law on the catering activity of 50 persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89417	Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89418	So this is our key amendment, we all know that buses have 55 seats and means one family economy that deals with tourism in the country could not receive 55 guests. This means that 5 should stay somewhere in another guesthouse if bus capacity is common. I don't think it's acceptable, that exactly rural space and rural space in tourism we should support, in this way by refusing amendments we certainly don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89419	To vote, please, who's in favour of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th Representatives Nevenka Majdenić, Ruža Lelic and Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89420	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is estimated that it is better to delete the provision and thus leave freedom for a member of the peasant economy to use the work of persons who are not members of the same farm according to specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89421	Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89422	We accept the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89423	The amendment shall be adopted in this amended form. 14. The Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89424	The amendment to Article 54 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89425	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89426	The amendment to Article 58 shall not be accepted. As paragraph 3 of the same Article provides that economic... due... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] send the oral solution to the stranger in writing within eight days of the date of the ban by mouth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this ensures the right to appeal against individual acts adopted in the procedure before the authorised body prescribed in Article 18. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89427	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89428	We still feel that a oral solution is necessary to replace words with a written conclusion. In fact, we work in the rule of law and can only complain about the written conclusion. I don't know how a man can complain about an oral solution so he can record on a tape recorder, so he can send him a taped complaint. If it's a written solution, it's one thing. You can complain about that. So how can someone complain about an oral solution? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89429	Please vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89430	The amendment to Article 60 shall not be accepted. Given that Article 0 is. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia refers to personal and political freedoms and citizens' rights, and we believe that the amendment does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89431	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89432	However, we feel that it is necessary to delete this article here because the offence listed in this section does not contain the characteristics of a serious crime or threatens the legal order so that it could act so harshly and prohibit activity. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89433	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89434	The amendment to Article 75 shall not be accepted, given that amendments to the HSP Representatives' Club to Articles 23, 29 and 39 have not been accepted, nor shall this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89435	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89436	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89437	Amendment withdrawn. 18th Representative Irene Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89438	The amendment to Article 77, Article 77 of the word "in three months" shall be replaced by the words "in 60 days." Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89439	It becomes an integral part of the law. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89440	The amendment to Article 81 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89441	It becomes an integral part of the law. 20th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89442	The amendment to Article 82 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89443	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 23rd Amendment of Agent Irene Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89444	The amendment to Article 82 shall be adopted on amendments in the form of such an amendment as to read. "This law enters into force on 15 September 2007. "years."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-31-0.u89445	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? I believe that with 79 votes for, 17 abstentions and 6 against the adoption of the Tourism Service Act as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
