ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87590	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a draft bill of confirmation, so the ratification of Kyoto protocol after several years of trying to win one position that would equate us with all the other signatories. We did it, and now we're proposing a ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. He is part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Protection, which was adopted in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro. After trying and several years of trying to implement this Convention, the impression was that a new stronger document was needed, which is the '97 protocol. Signed in Kyoto. This Protocol concerns the mandatory period between 2008 and 2012. It is related to the basic year, the 1990 base year where it was decided to take the emission limit achieved in general in the world in 1990 as a basic year and that signatories have an obligation to reduce emissions during this accounting period from 2008 to 2012, with Croatia being tasked with reducing their emissions compared to the 1990s. For 5%. Croatia signed the protocol along with other countries. Before that, it's '96. In the year Croatia ratified the Framework Convention, however, we did not enter the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol from the ground because, according to the first report we submitted to the Convention, it was established that the position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the other signatories is not the same. In 1990, according to the basic budget of greenhouse gas emissions, Croatia was able to count as an independent state in its report only on emissions sources, so energy plants located in today's territory of the Republic of Croatia and all those thermal power plants in which Croatia invested for many years as part of the former state located in Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, so today independent states could not be considered. And one large part of the electricity, or general energy that we received from these sources, has just entered the balance sheet of Croatia. In 2001, a request was submitted in Marrakesh to allow certain flexibility under Article 4(6) of this Convention. This article allows countries in transition to determine each other's basic year, the second basic year when they prefer the greenhouse gas emission regime. Croatia is from familiar circumstances before the 1990s. She's had less emissions for years, so less electricity consumption. After the '90s. For years we entered the war practically and our entire industry and everything died so that all the activities that are tied up and especially in the energy sector were less and Croatia was the only one of these states of signatories not having the opportunity to choose one of the more favourable years. We opted for another approach, we decided to approach showing and proving that Croatia in its production of electricity, according to greenhouse gas emissions, according to all those indicators based on proving what position we have in relation to other countries we are actually at one level of small emissions and that we actually belong to another position and that we can start from another position. In the end, we showed purely diagramically that by sorting out, by coming into a position according to the permission of 31.12 million tonnes of CO2 per year we come to the level of electricity consumption in 1974. Therefore, respecting these basic provisions would have put Croatia in a practical position from 30 years ago, made it impossible for any further industrial development that we need, and this fact ultimately led to a further 3.5 million tonnes being added to the decision of the Kyoto Protocol Assembly in Nairobi in 2006 so that today we are at 34.62 million tonnes and in this way we are moving towards the Kyoto Protocol goals. There are often two basic topics in the press or in the talks in Croatia. The first irresponsibility of Croatia or the irresponsibility of all those in charge of the development of the state, why we did not ratify Kyoto protocol when it was ratified by other countries. So that's one thesis. The second thesis is that by signing and ratifying Kyoto protocol we will be placed in a position when we cannot develop industry and when we will not be able to develop our economy in general. One and the other thesis actually have its basics but also the reasons why we didn't do it. So we're aware. We as the Croatian state, especially in all our plans, act as if we ratified Kyoto protocol, we stick to, we make plans, develop our energy, develop our industry and everything that goes on is tied up as if we ratified and on the other hand we had to fight for this flexibility, we had to bring the Croatian state into the same, in an equal relationship with all the other signatories. We couldn't put ourselves in a position to be in the starting position from 30 years ago. So these were the reasons why we have fought a certain fight in the framework of the Convention over the past six years, had a series of meetings, a series of evidence, a series of agreements, conversations, a calculation of all possible ways to show that Croatia is willing to respect the Kyoto Protocol's goals. She's willing and thinking about protecting herself, making a contribution to protecting the climate, but only wanting the same starting position. So we're not by getting that flexibility brought ourselves now so we can blow up all 4 if I can say picturesquely and say: We've solved the problem. We didn't. We are only in a position where all the other countries of the world are and we are in a position and now we are going to show that we are going to make a contribution and that we have a responsibility to the climate. Because the fact is that, that today everyone became aware of it. Not only a Europe that is extremely adhering to climate protection in all its projects, especially in recent years, but also the world and the United States that are not signatories to the Kyoto Protocol have begun to implement measures. We all know what's going on in California with renewable energy sources. With reference to transport and gas cars and the use of hydrogen as fuel. We are aware that President Bush's decision to introduce 17% of renewable fuels into transport. So they less diesel, bio diesel use more bioethanol. We are aware that China is now, despite the fact that every week, a new coal-powered thermoelectric power plant begins to think about new, new indicators. And now the countries have turned to the "post of Kyoto," so after 2012. The European Union leads the entire world in a campaign in the fight for climate conservation. The melting of ice in Antarctica, the melting of tundra and all those marsh areas frozen in the north of our planet, which further emit extremely strong greenhouse gas potentials such as methane, show that the situation has become serious. We must therefore turn to the programme, the world programme, and in particular the Europe programme. Europe has decided today under the German Presidency, part of this time the German Presidency of the European Union is dedicated to energy and climate. So the ratio of energy and climate production and climate impact. A decision has been made at European Union level to do everything, today we cannot immediately stop everything that happens to make this influence of an anthropogenic effect on climate change, on greenhouse gas emissions, to limit the global rise in temperature to 2 degrees Celsius. So from some kind of core temperature if we go out there in the '90s there hasn't been such a big change right now, but to do anything to reduce to 2, increase to 2 degrees. In this regard, the European Union has adopted its programme to ensure that, in the "post of Kyoto" by 2030, all signatories of today's Climate Protection Convention decide to reduce the production of these greenhouse gases by 20% compared to the 1990s. We are now talking about 5% in Kyoto, 20%, then the European Union will reduce by 30% with its countries. If this agreement is not reached at global level, the European Union has decided to reduce the total production of greenhouse gases by 20% regardless of any total by 2030. So it's far more serious and far more complex procedure than these 5% or 8% that have developed countries today towards Kyoto. We deeply believe that, in the Kyoto Protocol period, we will enter the European Union in 2008 to 2012, and then, together with the European Union, we will enter the 20% reduction project. The European Union treats Kyoto protocol and post Kyoto as one community of countries in total energy production as well as greenhouse gases. So countries that are in a worse position are getting a change, so that is, they call it "burden sharing". Thus, burden-sharing provides specific aid in emissions from other countries that have managed to reduce their emissions through technological measures. So what can be expected of the European Union to help us in this great effort to reduce greenhouse gas production. However, we must do all we can with both our basic and our means. The funds or methods of how we will come and reach Kyoto's goals, so now we go back to Kyoto protocol to those minus 5% by looking at the current balance sheet where, now and then, secondly, the third report on greenhouse gas emissions according to the commitment, according to the United Nations, are several projects that we have to implement. First of all, it is the energy efficiency that gives the biggest savings by looking only at the work of the plant, looking at buildings, looking at the use of heat or energy for cooling, insulation and all that can contribute to a significant reduction in energy consumption and thus reducing the greenhouse gas emissions themselves. Other possible sources are renewable energy sources. Today, we have a series of windscreen projects. Croatia has one particular wind power although there is one level of wind that is beyond the possibility of being used, but there is also one particular area especially in the surrounding area where we do not have populated areas. Where there is neither the possibility of any agricultural or other activity, although these wind power plants do not interfere either. There's a series of wind-energizing projects. Using biomass is one of the most important possible sources. The use of solar energy especially in our Dalmatia, on the islands to produce so to use heat less than to produce electricity. Hydroenergy, therefore, is something that has been used to a high degree in Croatia. We have dependent on the hydrological year between 36 and 50, even 50% of the production of electricity from the hydrocenter. There are still certain potentials that are not very high. But we're gonna take advantage of you, too. The introduction of gas, the replacement of fuel especially liquid, oil, gas oil and that, and natural gas that we have in certain quantities in Croatia, the construction of future terminals, gas pipelines and everything you know about. This is one of the options where it can be reduced due to a greater share of hydrogen energy in that gas. That part can also be used. What's particularly interesting is traffic. The introduction of new renewable energy sources was therefore diesel and bioethanol. Today several factories have been built in Croatia. One already works. There are several in construction. There are several plans. There is a government regulation on the introduction of a certain replacement amount of these fuels. One of the interesting things perhaps is our waste management plan, the construction of new waste management centres where only one waste management centre in all Croatia will be one in the county alone. We recently presented these basic ideas. It's about the use and the biogas from the waste. Our estimate is about 25 to 30 megawatts of additional electricity as a renewable energy source, so there's a lot of potential. One of the potentials is forests, not as fuel, but as a CO2 sink. So Croatia has its plan to achieve the Kyoto Protocol goals, but we are already thinking about the future today. What is extremely important to us is to secure energy in sufficient quantity so that the economy can develop as well. And another maybe just a little thing. There's a lot of talk about how much getting us closer to Kyoto protocol will cost us. There are certain calculations. However, there are calculations on investments in renewable energy sources, which is not really a cost but an investment. Because it's something more expensive. However, there is already a certain rule on the so-called fine tariff, so the advantage of receiving electricity from the same generation and from renewable sources, so that this part represents practically more investment than the cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87591	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87592	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 55th session held on 20 April 2007, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Kyoto Protocol under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change with the final proposal for a law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed draft law as the home working body. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87593	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87594	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club believes it is very important that we ratify the Kyoto Agreement. In fact, climate change on our planet is a constant process. They can't be stopped, but it's possible to slow down. Climate change is mainly due to natural phenomena, and in the smaller part they have their source in modern human activities. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, human activities have changed nature to make human life better, not caring for possible consequences. The combustion of fossil fuels, industrial processes, the processing of agricultural products from waste creates greenhouse gases which are the most significant carbon dioxide, methane, freon and others. The intake of these gases into the atmosphere keeps growing. In the last 100 years, the concentration of nitrogen oxide in the atmosphere has increased 15%, carbon dioxide 32%, and methane 110%. Due to the growth of these gases in the atmosphere, the damage to the ozone layer of the atmosphere is increasing, resulting in an increase in the average earth temperature and climate change. So these changes are speeding up. The facts about global warming have been covered up for years because of the interest of large global companies in some of the most industrially developed countries, as was the case in the United States, England, France and others. The Republic of Croatia has 3 climate zones – Mediterranean, mountainous and continental, therefore it is sensitive to climate change due to the possible impact of these changes on the overall biodiversity, water resources, on the health of our population. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club maintains that the Republic of Croatia should actively participate in international efforts aimed at addressing climate change. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted at a summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, and the Republic of Croatia ratified it in 1996 when it became a party to Appendix 2 and the Convention covering 40 developed countries and countries with transition economy, which took over the obligation to keep greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 level. It was very quickly demonstrated that this was a pre-optimist commitment, that the implementation of these commitments under the Kyoto Convention would not be sufficient to protect the country's global climate system, so the Kyoto Convention Conference adopted a Kyoto Protocol for the States of the Appendix, i.e. one. for these 40 developed countries and countries whose economies are in transition and have taken the obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5% in the period from 2008 to 2012 compared to the base year 1990. The European Union has also taken on additional commitments, so it said it would lower greenhouse gas emissions by more than 5%, i.e. it has made a voluntary commitment to lower them 8%, by limiting some countries' emissions far beyond that 8%, and some less developed countries in the European Union raises that threshold even to 27%. We signed the Kyoto Protocol on 11 March 1999 but the Republic of Croatia did not ratify it because it then did not have complete data on greenhouse gas emissions and the economic cost-effective opportunities of their reduction. In addition, the Republic of Croatia could not agree to the selection of the base year in which the emissions were most per flexibility model, which was applied to countries with economies in transition. Because according to the 1990 greenhouse gas emissions budget, the base year did not reflect the real situation in the Republic of Croatia. So he's at 7. The Conference of the Parties to the 2001 Convention submitted a request to respect specificity in the determination of the base year pursuant to Article 6(4) of the Convention. The Convention and requested an increase in emissions in the base year 1992. Negotiations lasted five years. And in November 2006, the problem was resolved. Croatia has been allocated or allowed to increase emissions in the base year by 3 and a half million tonnes of CO2 and when it is financially expressed it is somewhere since 1 ton is around 14 euros, 1 ton of CO2 is considered on our European occasion to be worth 14 euros, so around 50 million euros, i.e. the situation was created that the Republic of Croatia can develop normally with its economy and respecting the commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol. We've been assigned that border of 34 and a half million tons of CO2. The objective of the Kyoto Protocol is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2012. The show, to be at least under 5% lower than the 1990 show, so the base year we accepted as everyone else for the year on which that restriction counts. How in the Republic of Croatia between 1990 and '94, i.e. During the Homeland War there was a significant decline in greenhouse gas emissions, and since 2004 growth with a trend of 3.3%, this means that the Republic of Croatia's greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced, of course I mean annual measures and quantities by 50% of these 3.5%. The draft strategy and action plan for climate change mitigation in the Republic of Croatia has therefore been drawn up. The strategy proposes measures that can achieve the objectives set out in the Kyoto Protocol. These measures will be implemented primarily in the energy sector, which according to data has been involved in greenhouse gases with 74.9%. With the use of renewable energy sources, the secretary also stressed the improvement of energy efficiency in energy production and energy consumption, the use of less carbon fuel, in particular natural gas, measures to improve industrial processes, better waste management, and the use of biofuels, biodiesel, bioethanol and other transport fuels. We can say the following, of course, for the realisation of these programmes are our Ministry of Environment, Economy, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport, Environmental Protection Agency, Fund and, of course, other professional institutions in the Republic of Croatia that are working to address these problems. It is worth noting which benefits the Republic of Croatia will benefit from ratification of this Kyoto protocol. In our view, these are reducing adverse impacts on climate change, reducing dependence on fossil fuels, primarily oil and coal, reducing the impact of the increase in oil prices, increasing energy security, opening up new opportunities for entrepreneurship and employment, reducing the emissions of harmful substances affecting health and natural ecosystems. What did we take on as an obligation to ratify this Kyoto protocol today? We are obliged to report during each year on the state of emissions in the Republic of Croatia, then two years on the implementation of measures and projections, periodically on all changes in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, then on the establishment of a national emission monitoring system, the establishment of greenhouse gas emission registers, the permitted emission transaction quotas, etc. In fact, ladies and gentlemen today, among the countries, there is a serious trade in quotas available to countries at some 14 euros per tonne of CO2. One state is free to sell to another if, in the meantime, it has achieved a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The sanctions for the parties to the Protocol, which will drop more emissions than those permitted in 2008-2012, are governed by a decision to increase the quota exceeded by 30% and subtract from the allowable quota for the parties in the period 2012 and 2020. Finally, to say that the funds of implementation of the Kyoto Protocol need to be secured in the state budget for 2007, i.e. for this year the fixed portion of the funds is already secured in the protocols. The Croatian Democratic Community's club thinks it is necessary to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. This will enable the Republic of Croatia to participate in the meetings of the Parties to the Protocol and the negotiations that have already started on defining and taking on commitments in the second binding period i.e. 2012 to 2020. In addition, we will meet the obligations of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union for the year 2007 which we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament. In addition to that, ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is a condition for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87595	Thank you very much. HNS MPs' club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87596	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is the addition of the International Climate Change Agreement and is signed with the aim of reducing carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases. The protocol was signed in Kyoto, organised by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in 97. Its entry into force required ratification by at least 55 countries and that the countries that ratified the protocol account for at least 55% of contaminants. So far it has been signed by 169 states and states and government organisations, and the countries that have ratified it so far account for 61% of polluters. What brings us Kyoto protocol? The protocol reduces the release of six types of greenhouses: carbon dioxide, methane, diluic oxide, fluorinated hydrocarbons, perfluoroated hydrogen and hexafluoride. Why is Kyoto protocol important? Looking globally for the last 10 years have been among the hottest 350 years since the time recorded in the meteorological sense of that concept. By the end of the century, Earth temperatures could have increased by 6oC. Although that doesn't seem much at first, it would really be bad news not only for snow peaks like the Alps, but for the whole one, it would be the balance of our planet. The increase from 2oC to the average, recorded in the summer of 2003, took more than 30,000 lives in Europe, only from heart attacks and strokes caused by heat. These are 2 degrees higher if it continues, enough to melt the ice cap of the island of Greenland which will lead to a temperature disturbance otherwise warm golem current that will eventually bring an extremely cold climate in the Mediterranean. A very similar scenario happened before the last ice age. If this topic is important, it is best to say that almost all European parliamentary campaigns have seen climate change and protection from these changes in recent years is the first parliamentary topic that future parliamentarians communicate with the public. Like I said in the beginning, it's really all bad news. However, it is good that this moment can be stopped if not to the end then at least as slow as possible. Kyoto protocol is one of the attempts to do something like that. The reduction of the emissions of harmful gases in the atmosphere will not restore our planet, but it is still a good start, and every man is responsible in this respect to try to leave the future generations as healthy as possible. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, emissions of harmful gases have grown exponentially every year, and all to make human life as comfortable as possible. Today, because of this way of life, we have to fight not for comfort but for human life in the future at all. There must be political will to address the issue of environmental protection, not only at local level but globally. Like many things in today's globalised world, the issue of environmental protection is not decisive on the basis of only one country, but everyone must recognize it as their own interest, but Croatia is already a significant helmet. First, the protocol is ratified only now, regardless of the fact that we signed it in '99. I know that our harmonisation of legislation with the European Union is going terribly slowly, but for seven years, it's still a big number of years. I can agree that there have been some difficulties in ratifying this agreement. First of all, I am referring to the determination of the quotas for authorised gas emissions for the Republic of Croatia. In order to determine the base year according to which the reduction will be regulated, it was the difficulty of the 1990s our production for objective reasons as we had heard earlier was so low that the reduction would be really unreal, or rather ridiculous. However, negotiating these quotas for a full five years is also funny, although it is likely that the debt has been extended in a way or better offered by agility and preparation to conduct negotiations with the European Union, I believe that a larger part of responsibility is still on our side. The question is why we needed so much time to make documentation such as a national report on climate change or data on greenhouse gas emissions. It was about objective reasons, and if so, who are they, or yet it is about the kind of ignoring of this topic. In this way, the Republic of Croatia is side by side with one Kazakhstan, although the truth is that the United States and Australia in a similar situation as regards the Kyoto Protocol, but they refused to ratify the agreement. Only Kazakhstan and we are stalling with its ratification for speaking to ourselves a lot. Whether we want to admit it or not, by signing this agreement, we are making a certain foreign policy move and we are building a picture of ourselves in the international community. Shamperaum on this issue is our picture in the world being violated, which many diplomatic experts can confirm, of course not those who are involved in careers, but those who are truly diplomatically educated. We may not be a crucial country in climate conservation, but the degree of citizenship of a nation is estimated through awareness of these climate problems. If this process is significantly slowed down because someone has not done their job properly, and it is more than four years old because the protocol was signed in the spring of 99th, then the public needs to know. What the Republic of Croatia also has is the development of an alternative energy source. If the predictions of some futorologists about the disappearance of the most common sources of energy such as oil or natural gas for 50 years seem exaggerated, new sources of oil and gas are often found, we must be aware that small countries like our own must today invest in renewable energy sources to have them tomorrow, and we are not doing it sufficiently. And every winter when the gas shortages of the main heating energy threaten us because of low temperatures, we wonder why Croatian houses do not have solar water heaters that would certainly reduce the load of gas consumption for heating. Why is almost the whole of Dalmatia heating up on the most expensive energy current, and we have not yet brought gas from Ivan's field to Split? The sun on Hvar sows annually 2,000 700 hours a year. You know what that means. Do we finally need systematic state investment and fostering the energy efficiency of end-users? Energy savings are long ago not only economically but primarily an ecological and social imperative. So far, it's still just insisting on biodiesel, and that's certainly not enough, especially if we keep in mind that it has questionable energy profitability because it produces less energy than it invests in. We need to think about the future sometime, and Kyoto protocol is a great start because it offers a great range of possibilities. If no other forest advocates will come to their own because this protocol allows each country's signatories to increase its exhaust emissions quotas through forest construction, i.e. through reforestation, as forests absorb CO2. As is often the case with international cooperation, this protocol offers really great opportunities, but it is only for us to take advantage of them as much as possible. What still bothers me here in this protocol is the fact that the quota already mentioned can be sold to other countries in case a particular country fails to meet its quotas. Although I find that solution extremely good because it is flexible and it is really better for a country to buy other people's quotas than to exceed its own, but what I fear is the application of that provision to so-called. Croatian way. The very fact that this possibility of trading quotas is not mentioned anywhere in the introduction of the proposal, and it makes me a little nervous because it seems like the government is trying to make things less important. I don't even fear the development of the black market with quotas, although that is possible, but I believe that the international community has already encountered similar problems and therefore introduced rigorous control and reporting systems. What I'm a bit afraid of is the fact that certain people who are or are in power might think that it's more cost-effective to sell their quotas to Croatia than to develop their own industry to meet those quotas. This fear of mine may seem excessive to you, but let us not forget that politics has gone countless times towards selling Croatian property in order to urgently raise money for certain burning problems. So let's say the example of a retirement debt return, and even more so to cover up the fact that they don't know how to solve these same problems in the long run. It would indeed be disastrous if trade in these quotas were to take place in the same logic, without any long-term vision. I am convinced that most MPs here will agree that Croatia is in the interest of developing an industry so much that we fully meet these quotas. The worst thing that could happen to us is that someone deliberately halts the development of certain industries so that money can move quickly. It's just a short-term solution, and we as well as the government would have to deal with exactly long-term strategies. We will, in front of the Croatian People's Party, of course, support the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of this Kyoto Agreement, certainly although in a personal debate that I will join in a little later I will also give some more personal thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87597	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87598	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In her presentation, counterpart Shajin presented a long period of 7 years from the day of signature until the date of ratification of the protocol and should have been ratified long before. That's not an exact quote. The protocol should not have been ratified until the Republic of Croatia chose to increase the amount of CO2 emissions by 3 and a half million tonnes, as big economic damage would have been done to the Croatian economy and to the Republic of Croatia, our development would have stopped at the level of 1970.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87599	The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87600	Mr. President, Secretary of State. So here's a few sentences regarding the Kyoto deal. At first, I would like to highlight the general importance of saying global warming, greenhouse effect, everything that is happening around us today. We think that mankind has become aware, however, that certain changes that occur in the climate are still under the influence of ourselves and that in that part we can make certain shifts. The Republic of Croatia signed the Kyoto Protocol on 11 March 1999, but it did not ratify it because I would say the known reasons related to the negotiations that it did here almost until 2006 when we were able to say freely, successfully finish and get certain increases related to the possibility of an additional 3 and a half million tonnes of CO2. I think it's important and that in any case this shift that has been determined, we can evaluate it as we've heard here that it should have been faster or slower, but there are always two sides in the negotiations, one that's always said I'd be in a hurry, but another that wants to meet its specific goals. When we talk about global warming I think we're all aware that what we're going to do about our environment, what we're trying to leave is not for today but for what's coming after us. In that part, I believe that there is much more we as a state can do than we have done so far. I think that thinking about renewable energy sources is extremely important, but whether or not we want to admit this question we have been dealing with for 10 years, actively for the last 7 years since we have both certain strategies and certain proposals that have been made in the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, but whether or not we want to admit here we are still in the beginning. The biodiesel as something in which I would have said so many times since this pay phone, but also at certain gatherings, and especially in the ministries, in some ways, we have to say it's pure in part of the initial projects. We have so far the plant that was built to produce, started in May 2006 through the company Mobidip. His capacity is 20,000 tons. Unfortunately, we have to say that the raw material is still being imported for it, that there were 7 thousand tonnes of production somewhere, but the fact that we exported all that biodiesel. The Witrex company also has a certain production plan, they also unfortunately plan to implement because we have not yet made all those legal and institutional frameworks, I would say a positive market environment in the part that could end up on our market. I think that this opportunity is important to us, I have listened to a really large part of the experts and those who have dealt with this topic in the past ten years that it is possible to make the area in Croatia very suitable for the production of biodiesel and it is necessary to see and to encourage that part of the problem to be exploited. What we also need to talk about is the use of wind power plants, the use of biomass to produce heat, the use of certain I would say energy in this part that would reduce CO2 emissions that would improve our environment and certainly adhere to this agreement that we ratify today. We are aware that we are not allowed to waste any more time here, aware that we will have to speed things up. But when we talk about environmental protection, when we're talking about a certain future, then we have to do this moment and tell the sources in some way to remember a moment that was 21 years ago, exactly 21 years ago, and one day a hararium disaster in Chernobyl which unfortunately is hard to hit, I would say and today we all here can say we feel certain consequences of all this. We'll never even know what happened, what impact it was. It's just that every day we notice more and more that people unfortunately get sick of those diseases too often that they haven't been, I'd say in some past few times that much. But when I mentioned this topic, I mentioned it for a very clear reason, so I'd like to point out maybe one more thing. Unfortunately, when a specific waste strategy was carried out and, in particular, radioactive waste was then accepted in some way, the initiative of individual HSS representatives to exclude certain locations from these specific proposals, especially Moslavačka gora, but unfortunately in this part I have to say that there is one location left and that is Trbovska Gora. In that part, as part of still the location defined in the radioactive waste disposal programme. I have to mention it for the reason why we really heard it, and recently, unfortunately, at the local level, the authorities have come up with such a spatial plan. We in the HSS are opposed and I must say, we will also put in the procedure a legislative proposal that will correct that mistake and confirm what he said and recently, Prime Minister Sanader mentioned that nuclear waste, radioactive waste will not be located anywhere in Croatia but will be exported. Here, we'll give an opportunity with a legal proposal to here and all of you MPs sort of confirm it. But I'm going to come back now, and here's what I've mentioned only these two topics in some way along the way, and I think it was necessary to mention them from this Chernobyl disaster, and I'd say this event that I objectively believe we share that opinion if it's possible to prevent any possibility of pollution in our space and pollution and radioactive parts. I think that's where we can make that step. But I was intrigued by an article recently published that speaks about global warming in a slightly different way. It's about one thought that certain scientists define and that bring global warming, and I'd say less of a man's influence than a full, more of an influence of something that we can't influence, which is nature, which primarily refers to the sun. Of course, these experts speak very strongly about this and especially in America where, according to some data, $4 billion per year is spent on certain research in part I would say improving certain climate conditions on research, and in any case in this part experts say some things are not influenced by man, the level of CO2 in that percentage of 0.05% is not one that would affect the envelope but what happens is changes in the sun and they most directly affect changes that occur on earth. Of course, by reading this article, I would say that by informing you and myself there is most likely a certain thing in it, but I believe that the future will bring us reflections on the subject. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club certainly support the adoption of this protocol and its ratification. We think he's extremely important. I'm going to mention his importance here in particular. Here, we're witnessing one event today. Here, when we get out and when we get to our fields, unfortunately we'll meet there very much I'd say startled our agricultural producers who don't know what to do. The seed should have started or the seed had to be almost finished, but they don't even know what to do, is to start with the seed, is to not start because such a drought that has already appeared can definitely be announced. Unfortunately, I don't know, I don't want to be an ominous prophet in that part of it, it's going to cause enormous damage. All those who have already done so a few weeks ago will almost have to sow their crops and if such a drought continues almost, we will have to say that this will be one of the hardest years related to the corn and those spring crops we have now. All of it certainly goes in favor of what we talked about earlier. Our influences, our ability to prevent the greenhouse effect from being as small as possible. To try to reduce CO2 emissions into the atmosphere, to try to order those, unfortunately Croatia was together with the United States, Australia and Kazakhstan, 4 countries that have not yet joined and we all know that the United States is almost a fifth of the pollution in this part comes from the United States. I must say I was personally pleased when I saw that former Vice President Al Gore in that documentary film that was awarded and with two Oscars in some way encouraged America to think that the time had come for these certain things to change in America too. To move America towards the adoption of the Kyoto Agreement. So all of us, as I say, would still be afraid of the way some rich people don't accept certain things because of direct interest. I think that responsibility for the future, responsibility for future generations should also include those that are the biggest contaminants to go towards this reduction in both CO2 and the total greenhouse effect, and not to make it much more aware of some poorer country. And that those who are the richest in the world still don't stick to it. In any case, on behalf of the HSS Club, we will support the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87601	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87602	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the esteemed representative Pankretic said one inaccuracies. He said it was recently local self-government. The municipality of Dvor has adopted a spatial plan in which Trska Gora is listed as a possible location of low-radio-active waste, which is incorrect. The plan was published in the official messenger and nowhere does it appear to have been recorded for low radioactive waste. He's been trying to upset the public in our county all the time. It is listed only in the explanation of the plan, so nowhere in the plan, the official document was published on the pages of Sisak-Moslavina County's Official Messenger, nowhere stands the location as such. The only reason behind the plan is that a waste management strategy is foreseen as a possible location. So possible and nowhere real. It's not in the spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87603	Representatives' club...... SDP Honored Representative [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The edge of Pancic. [[Intruder: Read...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87604	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. There are colleagues and colleagues. No, no, no. [[Intruder: Yes]] Done with I'm having a discussion. [[Intruder: They have absorbed an internal debate.]] Okay. The SDP Club means it accepts the draft Kyoto Protocol Confirmation Act. We also consider the provisions of this Protocol as an addendum... UN climate change conventions are an incentive to take additional measures to protect the environment and a great opportunity for Croatia's energy, industrial step towards renewable energy sources and new industrial technologies, which will result in the creation of new jobs and further development of our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to achieve this goal, it is primarily political will that will force existing lobbys ruling energy and individual industrial sectors to take seriously new movements in Europe and the world. And the unpleasant truth as the former vice president of the United States of America called it, Al Gore, is that the emerging climate change caused by man will have dramatic consequences on the Earth and the man himself. Man as a species. It is good, therefore, that Croatia will also accept the provisions of the reduction of greenhouse gases because it is in a group of the only 4 countries that have not yet done so is not particularly commendable now that the fact of the accelerated global warming of the Earth has become generally accepted. In global terms, the Republic of Croatia with its industrial, energy and other capacities is not a major contaminant, but it is understandable that, together with other countries of the world, it must make a contribution in trying to address the consequences of man's belief in the possibility of unlimited growth. Questions whether we could have negotiated our starting positions better in the 1990s, and possibly if we could have had negotiations run by highly qualified negotiators or whether additional permits for the transmission of greenhouse gases were later negotiated sufficient or not, are no longer current. It's behind us. The agreed commitments should be an incentive for our energy industry to move towards adapting to new circumstances. At the same time, implementation of the Kyoto Protocol can be a good basis for gradually changing the awareness of every citizen and on, in particular. Our life habits wanted me to do it or not admit it will begin to change gradually. For the climate and the earth as we have known it is disappearing and is about to strike a powerful blow to man's greed, insolence and insolence. Several extremely warm summers and extremely mild winters were sufficient for both the political and economic structures of the most developed European countries along the United States and China, the largest environmental pollutants to call for an alert. It is precisely environmental protection, with a firm demand for the greater share of renewable energy sources to become one of the key political issues of the governments of Great Britain, Germany, Sweden and the entire European Union. That's why the Kyoto Protocol also has great importance. Although very soon, it may have to be revised in terms of further tightening its provisions because looking globally for the last 10 years have been among the hottest years since the weather has been recorded in the meteorological sense of that concept. By the end of the century there are, of course, different scenarios. Earth temperature could rise from 2 to 6 degrees Celsius. The melting of ice in the Arctic and Greenland is already in effect. It is estimated that the level of world seas could rise from one metre to six metres. Raising the level of one metre, which is the most optimistic variant, will put at least 100 million people around the world at risk. As we must be aware, climate change will not pass us, even though in this century it may not be as dramatic as in some other parts of the world. However, it is good that there is hope that this trend can be stopped if not to the end, then at least as slow as possible. The Kyoto protocol is one of the attempts to do something like that. Croatian geographically favoured as a small country, industrially not overdeveloped has a great chance of being, I hope it is not too pretentious to be one of the leaders in this new industrial and energy environmental policy. Our commitment to renewable energy sources with an increase in energy efficiency, which is also very important, is not at least questionable at the verbal level. In practice, it's a little different. Lately, more and more talk about biofuel production, bio diesel, bioethanol. A certain number of facilities is either open or are scheduled to open. However, in this case without a real link between the energy, industrial and agrarian sectors, with a clear role of the state, the desired effect will not be obtained. In addition, all types of renewable energy sources should be developed according to the possibilities and comparative advantages, therefore it is surprising that in this accompanying material the Government does not mention solar energy anywhere, and this type of energy has huge potential especially in Dalmatia, Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, where there is the largest number of sundial hours. The question can also be asked why the government has not already started at least with pilot projects in the southern Dalmatian islands, which would also contribute to their revitalisation. Understandably, we will not use the energy of tides and tides, for there are no great preconditions. But the sun's energy will be more than ever, and it needs to be used as the rest of the wind's energy. It is not good for our energy policy to lead lobbys regardless of who it was, nor for people who prefer the interest of a particular lobby to sit in the structures of government. It is likely that by ratifying this protocol, experts will also appear more and more in public, which will seek to bridge the necessity of reducing fossil fuels with ecologically clean, or allegedly clean energy sources. Thus, plans for the construction of new hydro plants should be taken with a final dose of caution, as all major river flows can no longer be based on climate data and river water regimes as they were until yesterday. It is also clear to all of us that the majority of the Croatian public and against the construction of new nuclear plants, which will be increasingly highlighted from part of the policy and profession as a real solution to the reduction of greenhouse gases. Until such a possible decision, we must make maximum use of all other potentials with an increase in energy efficiency at all levels. Let's just say one of the questions that is being imposed is that we intend to force the construction lobby to use energy-saving materials to build housing facilities where they are now making exceptional profits, and this includes huge savings opportunities, and thus reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As different measures should also encourage the use of gas-powered cars and imports of hybrid cars. The importance of this protocol is, however, primarily that we all together in this country become aware that the protection of nature and the environment is a key issue of our survival. Not only do I think of us as a human race but I think of us as Croat members of a relatively few people. Our greatest value is our space bounded by three large rivers on the continent – Danube, Drava and Sava, and the Adriatic Sea in the south. We'll never build planes or cars as a nation. If we ever build them, they probably won't be more quality than German or Swedish. But what we have better than the good part of the European Union are forests, wells of drinking water, unpolluted agricultural land and still relatively clean seas. This is our main product, a product that Western Europe began to appreciate when it had already destroyed it. And therefore state institutions must no longer behave uninterestedly when there is an incident protecting not the environment or human health but by protecting the polluter. Karlovac and Sisak are the last of these examples. The air in Sisak would have been far cleaner and less gas emissions this year or next if we had started modernising INA plants three years ago as planned. But when it was giving up on this modernization, it wasn't even about protecting the environment or protecting people's health. It is precisely because of these and some other ecological incidents that numerous ecological associations will say and will not make much mistake that the environmental protection system in Croatia simply fell apart as much as the government has kept quiet about it. It is unacceptable to go into major environmental procedures such as the Lesce hydro power plant based on an environmental impact study from the 1980s or the installation of the Danube canal – Sava without all the necessary studies, with general knowledge that it is a major devastation of nature without some great economic benefit of this project. Therefore, all economic operators that directly or indirectly influence the environment must be aware that the right to a healthy environment is one of the fundamental human rights as recorded in the Croatian Constitution. We believe that the Kyoto Protocol will be an additional mechanism of pressure on those who feel that profit-making can pollute the environment uninterrupted and poison people. So, for us at the SDP Club Kyoto protocol, the protocol is an additional chance for sustainable development of Croatia based on the protection of the most valuable Croatia owns and these are its natural resources. The protection of these natural resources must be a fundamental national interest, as it will also be our greatest comparative advantage today and tomorrow when we become part of united Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87605	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87606	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Pancic presented his presentation just now at the end of the next one. The environmental protection system in the Republic of Croatia has fallen apart. Well, this is indeed an incorrect allegation and an incorrect qualification of all that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all possible authorities, and our economy in the Republic of Croatia, is doing to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87607	Second correction by respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87608	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Pancic, you said that the modernization of the refinery in Sisak was supposed to have started three years ago. No, it should have started long ago. I'll remind you only of some statements in 2000, and I have 17 signed when everyone promised to modernise the refinery in Sisak. Nothing, though. There was also an operational investment plan in the refinery from 2000 to 2003 and nothing. Only in 2004 did the ministry get involved, and only then was something seriously launched in the Sisak Refinery. And you see where it's all come from this year, i.e. At the end of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87609	Kyoto protocol needs to be ratified as soon as possible. The greenhouse gases work on both the throat and the air. For the National Minorities Club, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87610	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87611	Just please be careful with water and class, and also verbally to be careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87612	Okay, correct. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yesterday, in Strasbourg, the European Union adopted a resolution on Croatia. So now among those 16 points of faster sale of the state stake in companies, reduce state support, especially shipbuilding and steel sector, then demand among other things the rationalisation of the judiciary, which must go hand in hand with the establishment of appropriate procedures and criteria for appointing... judicial staff to become professional and effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not to add up, they're asking this House, this House, this Parliament to accept the Kyoto Protocol. So one of the conditions for Croatian entry into the European Union most likely not before 2010, 2011 is the adoption of this Kyoto Resolution. Everyone's for maximum environmental protection, that's what we agree on is one of the conditions son qan. Sustainable development will all be said to be a priority for every serious community. However, Croatia, in parallel with this, must also understand that we have no survival without industrialization. I come from the most touristic region in Croatia but in Istria, industry comes first. And it participates in the total income of that county with over 33%, second place is trade with 29%, tourism, hotels means it's about 9.6 in fact 10%, construction is right behind it 8.6%, agriculture is at the beginning of 1.6%, fishing 0.6% or 0.8%. That's the point. So without industry, clearly the industry of one sustainable development has no Croatian sustainability, no Croatian success, no child survival. Finally, in 2007, this industry is not what it was a hundred or two hundred years ago. In one Buzet, the gross social product per capital is located somewhere in 5th place in Croatia. 30 years ago, it was a city that wouldn't have been there if it hadn't been for, say, a "Cimos", meaning the heavy industry from which more than $17,000 is being exported from today. So I'm saying that you can live well from agriculture, provided you have clearly 20 hectares, just don't know who has it in Istria or Croatia, and it's especially a question of how to get to the ground if the state won't grant it to you when the Istrians are on Wednesday, you can live well on tourism, if you have a mini hotel and if we have the facilities that can keep guests all year, from golfing on which to extend the season. However, it can also be lived solidly by industry. And finally when you look at, you know, this social, union, labour rights are incomparably better protected today at these industrial facilities than anywhere else. Is anyone going to make a comparison in this country and pay for, say, industry, tourism, construction, agriculture? If you could see it's industry in the first place. Social security's there in the first place. Syndical rights are there in the first place. But I don't want to be too long about it right now. The IDS is absolutely for this protocol. If it's a country, I'd dare to cut 100 percent of the greenhouse emissions, then it's Croatia. The number of employees, for 100%, you can't, for 50%, the number of employees in the '90s. There were 2 million people somewhere. Today we have a million and 500 grand. When the number of pensioners was 600 grand today, we have a million and 80 grand. We destroyed almost all of the industry, mostly along the Adriatic, it doesn't matter, let's start with Rijeka, Torpedo, Hartera, Hemp Factory, Rickard Bencic, Lenac, come on, we can go to Zadar, Sibenik down, Split, etc. We're importing everything. Almost everything. 21 billion dollars, we're exporting 10 and a half billion dollars. And here it would also be good to do one parallel as much as we simply do in that gross product with how many units are involved. The parallel needs to be done with employment. I'll say again, industry in industry, we have the number of employees as well as the '90s. A year. In tourism, about 20 to 30% less. So let's be honest and talk about everything this Protocol really means. We must also understand how small we are, how insignificant we are when it is pollution. We are around 0.3% of the European market of various goods. We are gentlemen also in big problems, because in Croatia there is still little work, and what is done seems to be not worth it unless you are involved in real estate speculation. So Croatia cannot be focused solely on agriculture, only on tourism, services, or state services, because it is a short-term policy. What should certainly be highlighted with this Protocol is as follows. That protocol arrived here in front of the Parliament. Croatia will become 170 countries in the world that will ratify this certainly important document or agreement. According to Kyoto protocol, industrially developed countries, and these include Croatia, I don't know by what criteria, but come on, they should be counting us from 2008, which is next year, by 2012, reducing the greenhouse gas emissions by about 5% compared to the base 1990s. It's a good thing Croatia was detained this base 1990. I already said back then we had about 500 thousand jobs more than we have today. It's a good thing it's the '90s. For years because there was something of this industrial production in this country compared to today. But how Croatia will reduce the emissions of glass gases is a question that is clearly interested in many citizens who are sensitised to this problem. And as we find out off the record, I'm reading from one text, the Ministry of Environment is preparing a greenhouse gas reduction strategy with a proposal for a series of measures that the secretary of state has spoken of. For example, in the energy sector, the main measure by 2010 should be the construction of wind power plants, and it should actually be produced I don't know, about 1,100 gigabytes of electricity per year. However, look at the resistance on the ground where these wind power plants will be located. For the transport sector, the main measure by 2010 is the use of biofuels with the assumption that 5.7% of fossil fuels will be replaced. Particular attention should be paid to the household and service sector because about 40% of the greenhouse gas energy in us is generated by energy consumption in this area. So households are de facto the largest under quotes, contaminants in this country. The biggest savings should be achieved by reducing heat loss of buildings, and any renovation of the building would stimulate improvements in thermal insulation and reduction of all kinds of heat loss. As a rule, this is achieved everywhere in the world through the installation of the glass wool, however, again in the Istrian spaces some of the citizens are disinformed around the rock and the Priors against all of it. Significant savings should be achieved in electricity consumption using energy saving bulbs, household appliances of the highest quality, etc. Mr. Pancic suggested these as well, hybrid vehicles. It's all nice, it's just costing and it's asking who in this country with 4.5 thousand kuna average salary or 4.600,00 can now count on a hybrid of Nisan or Toyota. A little someone! A little someone! Then Croatia becomes a growing energy import addict, so to meet our own needs we import 100% of coal, about 75% oil, 40% gas, 15-25% electricity. An even greater dependence on the import of these fossil fuels is expected in the future. We won't do anything again. We don't want "Adriatic Society" when there's an election campaign going on. Now I have recently read that the Prime Minister Sanader has changed his mind and said in one statement that he, too, is now not sure whether or not the Government, for the "Adriatic Society". The change in renewable energy sources in this sector would be preceded by the use of clear biomass, solar energy for hot water, geothermal energy, but all of it costs and costs a lot of money, and the question is who in this country can afford it. Two sentences and a deadline, when I mentioned that glass wool that it was an ecological industry, that it was an investment of 75m euros. Exports in the first year 0.5% of Croatian exports, no pollution, no employment, etc. As we or as Croatia will better say, we will be ecologically close to this protocol, and on the other hand we will not be able to bring together waste centers or waste disposal zones, so we will not have wind power plants, so we will not be able to accumulate. It's a good thing Mr Pankretić mentioned this dry summer. Well, we don't want glass wool, so we don't want solar energy, so we don't want gas pipelines, etc. What do we want? We want to politicize, we want to have everything, but we also need to understand that living under a glass bell can't and I hope that we can't also get into a situation where we have to sell our quotas, but to our own industry, we're going to use those quotas. To the superior hard industry, we will come up with superior technology, and thus clearly to environmental protection. Therefore, the industrialisation of Croatia should also be considered. The problem is also in some ways part of the eco - association, some of which are very well funded and often in the service of politics. It's not strange for me to say because on all sides of our party you can see that my party's total income on the annual level is somewhere above 3 million kuna, like "Green Istria" has a million and a half kuna. So it's become kind of a business, too. etc. We see that in Istrian spaces we talk about everything except cigarettes, but that's another story. It is also true that Croatia wanted to impose some standards from the post-90s, war, etc. when a good part of the industry was destroyed and that is why it is at least correct that it was taken this 90th year as a starting year. But I repeat, Croatia is unfortunately a deindustrialized country, perhaps we find ourselves in trouble for a year, two or five, God forbid and with these plus 3.5 million tonnes of CO2. And for the end, it needs to be defined for one superior technology. We're not going to sell our quotas, even though we need to ask ourselves where we're going to put that piece of junk from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. When the United States, and Mr. Gore, who was vice president along with Mr. Clinton, thinks about the problem, it should be welcomed, but everything should be taken with the reserve knowing or wondering what that country has done in that area. When you drive by car to Venice in one day across that highway somewhere in that city, there are 30,000 trucks. When you're looking down the river by you have... But that's why you have in that section $50,000 of gross social product per capital. [[You don't understand.]] We're less polluted than the Verona-Pada-Venice-Udine highway. And it would be good if Croatia could take over under quotes, and the problem of melting ice in Antarctica and falling I don't know Venice and dry summers and returning to the country again in winter so that we don't fail to spray. Everything would be fine, but gentlemen we are small, although we all agree that the greatest value of Croatia is people, space, sea, forest, good food, but in order to survive we must also work. ... And good wine, that's right, Mr. Capricorn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's why we're bringing back those 0.5 proms. Here's Kramaric finally had a little bit of life. And finally, says Mr. Pancic, the protection system has fallen apart, the gentlemen's industry has fallen apart in this country and the system has de facto not even had one. It needs to be created, and perhaps the ratification of this Kyoto Protocol along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will be the first step in this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87613	Thank you. At 11.23, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87614	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr Cain mentioned that individual parties in order to politicise for pre-election purposes are against individual projects. Yes, we are against the "Adriatic Society" project and we were and we remain, and what we are now offering is actually a modification of the project that excludes the transport of oil to the sea and predicts the transport of oil from Siberia only by land to Trieste. We were always against transporting oil to the sea, and we were in favour of making Croatia a profit on oil transit, but this is actually a complete twisting of thesis. It is now said of "Adriatic Society", but only in that part of it that oil should reach Croatia and across Croatia to Trieste. So, please let us be more specific both in the Parliament and Mr. President of the Republic and Prime Minister when they speak to the public when they talk about what project is actually supported and against which they oppose. In addition, Mr. President, I must remind you that more than two years ago, a debate was held on that proposal of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87615	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do, not through the correction of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87616	Okay. But there was no vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87617	Yeah, but not through the correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87618	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Agent Caine who said that the industry had fallen apart. This may be your home, but in Croatia the industry is not, because the Croatian industry is constantly growing year after year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87619	For National Minority Representative Zdenka Chuhil's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87620	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club supports the Kyoto Protocol Confirmation Act with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which Croatia has ratified, but right now we are opening the question whether it is not too soon to ratify or even better whether we are ready to implement it because sanctions in the form of penalties are not small. The greenhouse gases affecting planet Earth's temperature are only a small part from industrialization and human activity. Most of them are natural sources and yet the last two centuries of synergy and cumulative action of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen oxide and other gases, the greenhouse effect expressed by CO2 equivalent, has grown uncontrollably. In order to reduce greenhouse gases and protect climate change, the Kyoto Protocol committed to reduce emissions, i.e. to reduce emissions compared to 1990. Croatia has used specific circumstances in the selection of the base year for the calculation because our economy and economy in transition and with an additional 3 and a half million tonnes of CO2 equivalent cannot be satisfied with 34.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in the equation. But can we and can we be ready to cut this base year emissions in 2008-2012 by at least 5% knowing that greenhouse gas emissions are in a solid correlation with gross domestic product, and therefore we also know that in recent years we have had a 3 and a half percent increase each year. Since the largest air pollution or 75% is just coming from the energy sector, what we've done so far. Of course, we must first of all turn to renewable energy sources. When it comes to wind power plants, it's good that we've started, that we've created the first wind farm on Pag and Sibenik, but it's really too little to look at compared to Germany that produces, or whose wind power products are 17 million kilowatt hours, or if we look at the triangle of Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia where more than a thousand power plants are now spinning in that triangle. When it comes to the use of solar energy even though we know that the Adriatic has almost 2,000 600 hours of sunshine per year and that all 7 counties could be supplied for almost 70% of the energy, the total energy from these sources unfortunately we haven't even started. It's the same situation with geothermal energy that we can say in a trap or almost no use. The use of biomass to produce heat and cogeneration is just the same at the beginning, and tons of biomass fail. From biomass including wood waste, straw, corn as agricultural waste could not only produce energy but also save tonnes of CO2 equivalent and market them while creating thousands of jobs. Let me just say that one of Finland's biomass meets 25% of total energy needs. The use of less carbon fuel or better to say by emission, with less greenhouse gas emissions such as biodiesel, bioethanol in transport is at the beginning. Without the raw materials base, even though farmers cry out for market and market cultures, it is also a poor incentive policy, and perhaps not including in the European programmes that we talked about yesterday. Not only would we reduce emissions and damage to climate change, we would reduce, as is said here today, the dependence on fossil fuels and imports, increase the security of energy supply, but most importantly we would open up the possibility of new employment with less unprocessed surfaces. At the same time, we would meet the obligation to, as an accession member of the Union in 2010 in the total fuel consumption, stressing that transport will be at least 5.75% of the fuel as biodiesel, bioethanol and biogas, i.e. we would be more prepared in 2020 to meet that share in transport with 20% of which the recent Berlin deal or I don't know how to call it a contract. How is it possible that in a country where oil rapes, soybeans, sunflowers, we import tons and tons of oil, even for human consumption, and we could produce at least 100,000 tons of biodiesel. Plants for the production of biodiesel are on the move, built in Ozli capacity of 30 thousand tonnes, and only for that factory would it take 30 thousand hectares of rape oil. It's about building near Vukovar, it's about Agrokor and its capacities, Chepin with 40,000 tons, etc., and we have sown no less than 15 thousand acres of rape oil, and that's the end of the story. And it would be really comical if it weren't tragic, or if it weren't for the situation in agriculture because unfortunately it turns out that all these raw materials for these factories and if we build them we're going to import them. My colleagues and colleagues, I will still repeat the story of the Czech Republic once again. With 110 thousand acres of them in the 90's today, they're shining oil tails at 350 thousand acres with more than a million tons of production. Technically and technologically, it was brought from 3 tonnes to almost 5 tonnes and we today reach barely 2 tonnes per hectare. Today it is the most profitable war culture in the Czech Republic that the state no longer encourages but therefore encourages these means of consumption of biodiesel by keeping the price of biodiesel below the price of oil products, less polluting the environment because less greenhouse gases are produced and could without fear ratify the Kyoto Protocol. And I want to point out once again that both biodiesel and bioethanol and biogas are primarily the problem of agriculture. It could and can make the most profit on this problem, or on the production of these energy products, from those sown surfaces, employees of people, not to repeat everything that would happen positively in our agriculture. Only another problem is energy because Croatia will never be able to produce more than 10% of total bioenergys, and only 3. we can say that this is the problem of the Ministry of Environment or the environmental problem of pollution, etc. The movement of goods and people is a global and difficult stopping trend. Transport is increasing from day to day, increasing the number of vehicles on the roads, air traffic, traffic in the marinas. Most power plants for oil derivatives, directly burden the environment with combustion products and generate additional greenhouse gas emissions. Motor fuel consumption in road transport is constantly increasing, which is caused by an increase in the number of vehicles and Croatia must be concerned, I am talking about greenhouse gas emissions already because we have an increase of 40% of cars in the last three years or increased fuel consumption, I am talking again in transport by 33%. According to the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, a special environmental compensation has been introduced for motor-powered vehicles, thus fulfilling the principle of pay pollutants and the possibility of financing clean transport projects in part of the revenue from that compensation. We are interested in how much resources are being collected and how many are being directed back into the production of clean fuels and smaller pollutants that I was talking about. How many cities use such fuel in urban traffic, so-called the concept of sustainable development or sustainable urban transport as it has been in the strategy for more than two years. Is there even a city that put that into practice? Or to ask further, how many cities follow the state of the environment, above all I think about air and air pollution and how many are controlled by the impact of traffic or the impact of transport on the environment. This is hard to get an answer for. How we reduce and who guarantees the providence of the scenarios, the more we plan to increase the growth of gross domestic product as a reflection of economic activity, which inevitably increases greenhouse gas emissions and does not decrease. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol provides for the establishment of a greenhouse gas emission register in order to monitor emissions movements means both reducing or increasing emissions trading opportunities under the Kyoto Protocol and the EU emissions trading system, but also sanctioning cases of non-restraints. Can we commit to meeting 2008, 2012 that we will reduce gas emissions by 5% and are willing to pay the price, even if we are willing to pay that 14 euros per tonne of CO2 equivalent that we have to pay for the reduction, even if this was also a new investment or an E investment in energy efficiency and renewable sources. It means that we should know more to make it easier to raise our hands for ratification even though we are aware that it is a condition for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87621	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87622	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Parliament ratifies here, it is ready to ratify Kyoto protocol just this year after the winter which was extremely mild and which we believe broke and the last skepticism among those who believed that we were actually not dealing with global warming or that we should not engage in any reductions in greenhouse gases. So it's obvious from this year that unfortunately this worst-case scenario is already in place. Croatia, however, is late with ratification, the protocol was signed in 1997. December 11th in Kyoto and we ratify it nine and a half years later. It is interesting that Article 3 provides that countries that have ratified it show first results by 2005, be careful in 2005, and we are already in 2007 and not only have we not ratified or made any accompanying documents, decision strategies, laws, regulations that would show that we really care about all this together. Part of the reason for the delay in ratification was that the Croatian delegation agreed to an unreasonablely high degree of reduction in greenhouse gases as if Croatia had developed a country. So, they acted as if we were in the ranks of the development of one Italy or England, so we're very interested in how the thing went further, that is, with which the starting line actually Croatia enters this whole story. We are still an undeveloped country and it is not clear why our delegation accepted the degree of reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as for developed countries when it was signed. Of course, adopting Kyoto protocol, its ratification is not just an act of mere rank. This should result in a whole series of very clear strategies, laws, regulations and plans that will show that we really care about it and that we are really doing something. In fact, it is crystal clear that the growth of standards, the growth of GDP per capita, always entails an increase in energy consumption, i.e. a country that has higher energy consumption per capita, are generally countries with a larger gross social product per capita. So, if we want to strengthen Croatia's development, if we want its rapid development, if we want to re-industrize it, if we want to reduce the share of service activities, so trade and construction in our economy must go to greater energy consumption. But of course, things won't be easy. Croatia imports in 2005. 52% of our energy needs, which means that we really depend on what the price of oil will be, what gas supply will be, if we are really going to be properly supplied with electricity. If we want to stick tightly to Kyoto protocol, that means we need to encourage all energy sources that shut down greenhouse gas emissions, which means we need to encourage hydro power plants, that we need to encourage the use of bio-mass, bio-gas and generally all bio-fuels. This means that we need to review perhaps plans that prohibit the setting of wind power plants on islands, i.e. we need to significantly encourage the installation of wind power plants in suitable places in the Dalmatian Zagora or in Lika. It says equally that we need to stimulate and use solar panels as much as possible, but of course, for the first time, maybe some solar power plant. Secondly, we must get to the source of energy that we have invested outside the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible and that is nothing embarrassing and nothing strange. Sorry, Austria plans to invest about half a billion euros in energy sources in BiH territory. They have already bought part of Macedonia's electricity economy and there is really no reason why Croatia should not move part of its greenhouse gas emissions to other countries. That's what people do. But we belong to half of Obrenovac's thermal power plant in Serbia. But despite the fact that we have ratified the Treaty on the Energy Community here in Parliament, gentlemen do not give us electricity. I also warned of that fact recently at a meeting of parliamentarians of the Central European Initiative in Bulgaria. It also relates to the power plants that we have invested in BiH territory. Also, Croatia is co-owner of the nuclear power plant in Krško. Even from the ranks of individual Green Peace members, it is said that if the world really wants to increase energy consumption, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that nuclear energy may be our only option. In this case Croatia is co-owner of Krškoga, but nothing really prevents us from investing in nukes in Ukraine or Bulgaria or in the Czech Republic or who knows where, if it will provide electricity. Of course, not on the condition that we sign the agreements afterwards, forgive me, Mr. President, who are as idiotic as the one signed by Goran Granic with Roman Note who obliged us to take half of the waste from Krško, although we were not obliged to do so under the original construction agreement. This protocol also obliges us to look at the structure of our greenhouse gas emissions. It's not just carbon dioxide that greenhouse gases. Glass gases are both methane and it's from unsettled, wild waste dumps and it's on the show. The greenhouse gases are hydrocarbon emissions from our unmodernized refineries in Sisak and Urinj. But watch out, we'll also be shut up with pollution from the Bosnian ship from the refinery bought by the Russians and in which they'll refine the benzene and sulfur naphtha as it is already done in Sisak, which I warned yesterday about the press in Brod. We also need to take care of the fact that 30% of the energy consumption in this country is transporting us. If we are really going to stick to what we accept with this Kyoto protocol then we must encourage as much transport as possible with the railway, then we must encourage the accommodation of the tow truck on the Split-Zagreb or Zagreb-Vinkovci route. Then we must encourage a ship's transit on the river-Split route. By the way, there is not a single shipping line and no concession for Pula-Zadar connection. None, but he's driving around on that route. So if we really want to respect what we're sworn to by ratifying Kyoto protocol then we have to encourage those forms of transport that consume less energy and less emit greenhouse gases. However, only road cars are built in this country. There's no way we could possibly modernise a railroad. There's no way we could have introduced more shipping lines to unload our coast from a car, or our transit route from a truck. Because that's what emits greenhouse gases, too. So the HSP club absolutely supports this protocol. However, we are particularly interested in what the Croatian Government will do, both this and the next, come before this Parliament and the Croatian public. So with what laws, rules, decisions that will really mean that we care about what we have ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87623	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87624	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Tadic said in his debate that no strategies were made, rules on environmental protection. Well, that's really false and incorrect, because in this period of three and a half years, the Waste Strategy has been adopted, the Regulation on the collection of packaging waste envied by many more developed European desires has been adopted. The draft strategy and action plan for climate change has also been adopted. A series of measures and actions have been adopted, not to mention the recovery of a waste dump that is truly revolutionary in this period and it would be when environmental protection is correct to admit that in the last 4 years it has been the most done in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87625	HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87626	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must first of all say that today I speak as a concerned citizen, a concerned man who is aware that the world has neither begun with me nor with this generation nor will end with us even though it can't be no matter what we leave behind for those generations to come. And especially when we sit in such an important place and we can still make some decisions that can in some way affect this future life, if we have not already been able to influence what happened in the near or distant past. In this place, we were already very often talking about this national energy policy, that is, whether or not we were referring to the fact that we were, that we were co-owners of Brenovac, that we were building Djerdap, that we were building the largest number of energy facilities in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these are the things that have been here since the end of the '90s, so in the early 2000s, every time they appear again. We remember those tumultuous debates and about the nuke "smack" and everything that happened then. And whether or not we are, I have to be as honest with myself that we should always talk about it the same way. And then it was whether we belonged to the position or to the opposition among some MPs exactly the same attitude that we really were if nothing else was responsible. And we also didn't simply accept all those obligations stemming from that nuclear power plant agreement in Krško. I can indeed confirm that my colleague Tadic and I, although we did not belong to the same political positions in Parliament, said the same thing, and we very much advocated to see what these are, what positions might be to ensure that we do not really sign everything that comes to our table and that there is no need for each time in an inferior position. Also when it was a debate on transport, on transport, in a way, every honor to build roads, highways, they are very important and indeed bring a new picture of Croatia as a modern European country where roads are also important. But precisely because, bearing in mind some other elements and we have very much advocated, I have advocated that what really matters is returned to Croatia and that in some way we try to balance investment in road traffic or rail traffic or each other. Also, regardless of what I don't know, I come in some way as a liberal who's assuming we're okay, that we're in similar positions to these civilian associations, and that these things should also be demystified and that all these, and that all the actors on that civil scene are also someone's lobbyists and that for some times we really need to be careful not to sell us a horn for a candle. Because also some lobbies are very strong behind these associations, and sometimes really some of their actions are not really in the function of what, modernization, industrialization of Croatia, but should simply be demystified, I say, their role. The same thing when it comes to Croatia as a whole then I can, I have, I understand and respect those colleagues who in some way defend the environment I do not know on the Adriatic. But you also know I don't care if someone lets the pipelines, let's say, freely pass my Slavonia and Baranja. And as if there could also not be these accidents and also there are damages, they can be quite large. And especially I don't know those stories about production, I don't know the biodiesel that are also very often in the function of certain lobbyist circles. And it is forgotten that the input could be more expensive than the exit. The energy you need to get that way so you have to invest a lot more than you're going to get. I remember some lectures, Professor Davide 20 years ago and over when he's just talking about that I don't know the entropicity that touch much more units will have to invest than what he did, that really occurs this reverse effect. 20 or more years ago. In the end, this ecological ethics becomes the same, it has full citizenship in our colleges. This is what is given, written, and we can really say that this Croatia is not unsensitized, unwitting and that there is no literature and that there are no people and groups who constantly and promote it. That's why I'm saying I'm speaking here from the position of a concerned man. You know, watching these pictures in Sunday's journals that I don't know half of Greenland or Antarctica already melts it off, so watch the droughts in Africa, some other places. And in the end, we see for ourselves that the climate has changed dramatically for 10 years. In a way, you have to react and you can't care. And that is why this proposal of this Law on the confirmation of this Protocol is very important indeed. I say we shouldn't be some big expert so notice that these climate change that's been happening all these years, and it's not possible... or by chance on natural samples i.e. changes in solar activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The control of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere is certainly one of mankind's most important issues today. And I say, it's very important that there is such a protocol that represents this first global step in the plan to preserve the Earth's atmosphere, or the impact on climate change. In that very sense, this globalisation is actually the same thing that when we spoke to her yesterday, we must not have the exact effect that is precisely in that we love or do not love for some narrow political reasons. But obviously these are the things that happen and you have to have answers, not to say that you don't like something. And just because you don't like it, then you just don't want to accept it. That's what's happening to us, and we can't get away from these things. Although the fact that Croatia is very little contributes to global gas emissions at this global level is certainly a fact and we, as serious people, must make our modest contribution to this. We signed that protocol in March of '99. years, but we haven't ratified it until today. And normally what was the problem and we are now facing is that the signing of this Protocol did not pay attention to the energy structure in which Croatia received energy from other republics of the former Yugoslavia, and the fact that there was a major drop in greenhouse gases during the war, which is again for the positive that Croatia, that Croatia was determined to be too low in the level of pollution. And just for those reasons right there at 7. In 2001, we submitted a request for respect and specificity in determining that base year and requested an increase in the emission allowed. And these negotiations are over last year. A decision has been adopted which recognises the very specificities of the Republic of Croatia. Circumstances... gas before and after the 1990s and allow for an increase in emissions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And right now, so this is the beginning exactly which, we must be aware that it did not really happen we would question further development of the industrialisation of the Republic of Croatia. And now that that's happened, we have to have a strategy. And see what actually, which we of that, now of that fact that we want to do. So it was all going well now, if it hadn't happened it would have been, we'd be in big trouble but now let's see if there's a strategy? What we've observed here a few times is exactly that light... It's not really possible that we can't be subjects to our present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And mine on mine, too, yeah. [[Intruder: Yours on yours.]] It's, it belongs to an even paradigm of the 19th century... But, of course, it sort of defines us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now what we're actually expecting any compositions, the Assembly's call to see what we can do? And to agree to that, and not to have some lobbyists through then, who then hide themselves as pure microcry through some political parties, push their interests, and then actually you have one moment I don't know, the roads are in the first place, so I don't know then some alternative energy is in the first place. Well, in fact, you forget to look at the whole thing, so I don't know if we're really mad at the Adria Society. Well, then the Adria Society, I don't know, should, should be interested in seeing a presidential campaign so now, now, now, then, for a very long, long time nothing and now some new, new moments again. And I don't know, then we should have Janaf or already as they are called, these pipelines should go through again and tell our continental part of Croatia. It's all actually things that we don't have the right answers to. Although we must be aware that some, that some things are not possible and that we want to escape. I hope, on behalf of the Club, that this signature from the late 1990s or more precisely in 1999, which made Croatia a commitment to something that was very difficult to respect because of the too low allowed greenhouse gas emissions, will serve as a good example that these things no longer happen. And we can ask the question, though, why, before 2001, we didn't apply for... specific circumstances relating to the base year and the permitted gas emission level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then we'd probably have this bill on confirming this protocol before. Because you know it's not nice to see on the web pages of world environmental associations as one of several countries that we haven't ratified this protocol, and on the other, and at the same time we advertise ourselves as a country of pure nature and ecological tourism... You see how exactly, how very quickly we're actually bringing ourselves into a position of hypocrisy, a hypocrisis that is revealed very quickly or too quickly, and that doesn't work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And right the whole time, I've had this feeling of our incompleteness and, like, double criteria. You want... One face and then it's very fast for you when you catch it, you say it with your hands in the jam and it turns out we're not exactly like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we will welcome the success of the competent ministries that have managed to agree these new quotas for these gas emissions to the Republic of Croatia. And that's what I'd like to say, I mean, I wish we'd done it as soon as possible but to ratify this document but it's said, "Better ever than never." And in the end, being honest isn't at all, it's clear to us that it's not easy to negotiate an increase in the quota after almost all the countries of the signatories have ratified the agreement. It's, it's always really awkward. That's why this timing and the right time to react isn't bad. So we as the Club will support this ratification and hopefully, we hope that, apart from limiting the emission of these plans, this ratification will be one of the guidelines of the future development of the Croatian industry according to these new, cleaner technologies, but there should be clear that some things should not be mystified and the development of Croatian energy towards renewable sources. Nothing more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87627	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, [[The intruders don't understand.]] Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87628	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The greenhouse gases in the atmosphere mainly originate from natural sources. Water steam, but also a small part, is the result of modern human activities. It's the price of an industrial revolution in the last 200 years. The input of greenhouse gases from the most significant carbon dioxide among them and other methane... Nitric oxide, florad hydrocarbon compounds, sulphur hexafluoride is constantly and safely growing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sources are the burning of special fuels, agricultural activities, waste and of course industrial processes. Their concentrations in the atmosphere have increased since the beginning of industrialization. CO2, say 32%, methane even 110%. In order to contribute differently to the greenhouse effect of certain greenhouse gases, the total greenhouse gas emissions shall be shown to be equivalent to CO2 mass. Climate change, according to experts, is a non-refundable process, so any delay in measures and activities requires more drastic measures. The Republic of Croatia as a country certainly sensitive to climate change due to the Adriatic coast, for the sake of agriculture and forestry, water wealth must finally and the health of the inhabitants be actively involved in international efforts to address climate change. In 1992, Rio de Janeiro adopted the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has since been ratified by 189 countries including the Republic of Croatia in 1996, with the Republic of Croatia party to Appendix 1. Convention covering 40 more developed countries and countries with transition economies. I think this is particularly important because let's say that the Republic of Croatia has somehow entered an elite society here. The same countries, even though Monaco is there, which is insignificant on the surface, probably on that show. The same countries took over the obligation to keep greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 level as the base year by the end of 2000 and quickly proved insufficient to protect the climate system. At the 3rd Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Convention in December 1997, a Kyoto Protocol was adopted which provides for an average of 5% reduction of emissions for the countries of Appendix 1 to the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 in relation to the base year. For the Republic of Croatia, a reduction of 5% from 1990 base year is difficult to achieve. The Republic of Croatia has requested an increase in emissions in the base year of 1990, with a requirement to respect specificity in determining the base year. For all these, there were solid reasons for the new conditions in relation to the former state and all the consequences of the facts. Finally, in 2006, a decision adopted by the Republic of Croatia recognises specific circumstances regarding greenhouse gas emissions, resulting in a total emissions of 34.62 million CO2tonnes. Kyoto Protcol aims to maintain the increase in greenhouse gas emissions for future periods. The draft strategy and action plan for climate change mitigation in the Republic of Croatia proposes measures mostly in the energy sector through the use of renewable energy sources, wind power plants, bio-mass, rational energy consumption, less carbon fuel use, use of biofuels in transport. The emphasis is therefore on reducing dependence on fossil fuels. The significance of the Kyoto Protocol is that it also respects the amount of CO2 that plants absorb by photosynthesis, so they implant it into biomass, remove it from the atmosphere. This gives special importance to forest management, very significant activities in and for the Republic of Croatia. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is a condition for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and, therefore, not only do I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87629	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since 1992, when the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in Rio de Janeiro, the Republic of Croatia was actively involved and, together with 186 other countries, ratified this Framework Convention and took over the actual obligation to keep greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 level. The Kyoto Protocol, which is in fact the next step in the effort to reduce greenhouse gases, which was adopted in 97, prescribed the obligation to reduce emissions by 5% in the period from 2008 to 2012. Base year, and that's 1990. As this base year was very unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia in 1990, Mr. Secretary of State presented the reasons for not repeating them now, which is why in 2001 an increase in emissions was requested, which was accepted in 2006 in Nairobi, and I calculated that it was an additional 11.6%, which is indeed a good achievement and every commendation to the negotiating teams. Of course, the adoption of this Kyoto Protocol Act provides us with multiple obligations that we are obliged to make. The draft strategy and action plan for climate change mitigation define measures to reduce emissions. These measures will mostly be implemented in the energy sector, which means using renewable energy sources. We already have two such sections of the wind power plant, we hope that they will continue to be built. Using biomass to produce heat, improve energy efficiency in the production and consumption of energy, so in the construction of buildings, I would refer to it with one personal example. It is known and it is said that 40% of the energy is consumed in the household. I was personally in my house that the older construction wanted to introduce central heating. For 150 square squares of living space, I gave myself a cost for three energys, so electricity, lye oil and solar energy, I couldn't get gas for spatial reasons, and I came up with such data that today it's really impossible for a family house to make solar heating because the calculation for 150 squares is cca 90 thousand kuna for the introduction of solar heating while there are cca 50 thousand kuna on the vine and on the electricity of 25 thousand kuna. So the differences are huge and the introduction of solar heating, and so I wanted to do it, but it's not worth it, and my whole life would go by while I'd pay off the entire plant, and that's why I'm appealing both from this place and to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to the Government, and to the Energy Efficiency Fund to take certain measures because the apparatus, or the solar heating material, is completely imported. Could our country be free of customs duties from these necessary solar heating devices or could banks, of course, provide subsidized, less interest on credits for the introduction of solar heating because it's really a shame that so many sunny days we don't use to produce energy. Here are some questions that I hope this government will certainly consider, that the Ministry of Environment will surely find a way to resolve this and I am convinced that it will also be in the next four-year period. Because the later measures and actions are being taken, the more drastic measures are also needed, and I hope that these measures will be taken quickly. It is therefore to welcome the active participation of the Republic of Croatia in international efforts to address climate change unlike developed countries such as the United States we see are taking certain measures, but they still do not want to sign the Kyoto Agreement. All the measures we are obliged to take ultimately mean that we also protect our water resources that are immeasurable and that we really must take everything to protect them, to protect the overall biodiversity and finally the health of people. So I'm glad we're all thinking the same way and voting to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87631	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87632	Dear Mr. President, let me refer briefly to this law. So I support this law, I support everything that it says in this law, so the Kyoto Agreement and, unfortunately, I can conclude, so I think we are among the last countries in the world to accept this agreement. But it is also saddened to conclude that some important, much more important countries than Croatia, a much more developed country did not sign the agreement. First of all, these are the United States and Australia, which is still dropping large quantities of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere causing further pollution. These days in the media we could read that even one news, which was so quite bombistically announced, said a new planet was discovered, a new country was discovered, a planet that is supposed to be, possibly as well, a planet in the future where humans could live, even if it's over 20 light years away. It turns out that we human beings are actually looking for some back-up position in the universe as if we've already written this country off. All of this in some way and in the spirit of disasterers who speak of climates in a country that will be disrupted in the coming decades in such a way that the survival of the human race on planet Earth will be questioned. They say, therefore, that three horsemen of the apocalypse who have been riding the earth for centuries now are war, poverty and hunger and disease, so to join them the fourth horseman of the apocalypse that is pollution and therefore that will significantly affect the future of the human race. I hope, therefore, that this will not happen even though warnings and serious scientists, air-conditioned and recently businessmen are such as to warn that human species still has a future on this planet. That is why I support, therefore, because of these global issues, this agreement, and I also support this agreement for our own reasons, specifically for example. Health in the Republic of Croatia, e.g. sulphur dioxide is one of the greenhouse gases planned to reduce emissions both in the world and in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is such that it is just sulfur dioxide in some of our regions, so here we have debated the state of health, the state of air in the city of Sisak. It is very warning there that large amounts of sulfur dioxide in the air of our Sishken, for example. It is thus noted that the amount of sulfur dioxide in one day according to data from the competent measuring cell that within 6 to 9 hours that has jumped from 6 to 38 units of measurement, and it is known that the sulphur dioxide is a chemical compound directly toxic to humans and animals. So what concerns Croatia about broadcasting emissions, so the descent of this sulphur dioxide compound is that it came again in 2005 for example. compared to 2004 to the increase and descent, and 15.5% after certain years when it went towards smaller certain values, it has now begun to grow again, and I think for these reasons, therefore, because of the possibility of saving the health and lives of our people, we must accept this agreement. What everyone has warned to date, so today I agree that we must change the structure of the fuel source used in the Republic of Croatia because unfortunately today the Republic of Croatia uses most of its energy from specific fuels or hydropower plants, which I think is not good, while we are in the use of renewable or some alternative forms of energy from their sources at the very bottom of not only Europe, but also the world, so the data tells us that only 0.6% of the energy in the Republic of Croatia is energy produced under the influence of the wind. This is all, therefore, the use of thermal power plants on coal, gas, nuclear power plants Krško or hydropower plants. So what we need to do in Croatia is to make a new plan, to have a strategy, but unfortunately we have heard that we lack investments that would help us move to renewable energy sources as soon as possible. These are biothermal energy, Croatia is rich precisely with these therefore geothermal forms of energy, unfortunately they are unused. Croatia is actually lying on large hot water sites, but few have been used. Not to mention the energy of tides and tides or wave energy. Croatia is therefore a country that has a large seashore, so it has large surfaces under the sea, and unfortunately none of these are used for the time being. The only way I know how to use wave energy is to use sea organ in the city of Zadar, but it's not to get energy, it's to get sound. Also, as for biomass, we do not have any information about the use of biomass energy in the Republic of Croatia, and otherwise it is a very interesting way of obtaining energy outside and it is progressively growing year after year. It should also be pointed out that the main advantage of biomass compared to fossil fuels is the lower emissions of harmful gases and waste water, as well as the additional advantages of waste management and exploitation of waste and residues from agriculture, forestry and wood industry, the reduction of energy imports, investments in agriculture and underdeveloped areas and the increase in the security of electricity supply. So there were not just many, many words here today. Unfortunately, we can say that there was little, little really done. On the one hand, in Croatia we have over 300 thousand unprocessed, 300 thousand hectares of unprocessed land, on the other hand we may come to a situation where we have to export the oil tail to produce, produce biodiesel fuel, and also today we are in a situation where, when that biodiesel fuel is produced, we simply have to export it because there is no way to sell it. It was also about solar energy. Here I have one statement from our same scientist from the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, Mr. Natko Uru, who talks about it, i.e. points out that if we covered only 3% of Croatia's territory with solar transducers in heat and electricity, we would get about 8 times as much as today's total energy consumption in Croatia. Normally we can't do that, but it's vividly showing us how we can use solar energy, but here we are, too, and there's a colleague talking about the difficulties that people have to build on that solar energy precisely because of the price of cells and materials. Just to end, so we still have the potential of reserves to reduce energy consumption from fossil fuels, many also point out that one of the more important resources is also a rational consumption of electricity. That is why it is necessary to make sure that we ourselves use energy rationally, so that we turn off a light bulb that is unnecessary for us and that light bulb that shines every day for 10 or 15 minutes longer so that it consumes electricity, that the pollution may be much greater. There were also words here so we could turn traffic off the road onto our railroads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87633	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87634	Thank you very much. Here, although most of my views have already been debated on behalf of the club I would still refer to some aspects that I did not speak in the context of a club debate and this is mainly related to controversy over renewable or alternative forms of energy. In fact, speaking of this, it does not need to be fooled that all of this together comes down to noble purposes only. In fact, this is also about the input revenues of all manufacturers from the equipment needed for that production. So, although we certainly support and support the signing and ratification of this Kyoto Agreement but it should not be forgotten that Croatia's need will not be settled only with alternative energy sources and that, in fact, in order to say, there are also special interests of lobbys that earn and make good money by selling various equipment necessary for the production of alternative forms of energy. However, Croatia's growing energy needs will also make Croatia needed some more serious forms of energy, and I think that we here have to ask ourselves well which are more stable and significant sources of energy because, as I have already pointed out earlier, a large part of Croatia, let's say, Dalmatia is not gasified and this is one very concrete project that stands before us and that could certainly also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions because Croatia has Ivan's field, which has an opportunity to reach natural gas and the only question is that gasification is carried out, or that gas pipeline is carried out to Dalmatia, Split and that gasification of our cities along the Dalmatian coast. Also, the question is whether a gas thermopower plant that would then supply energy to the entire area of Dalmatia does not need to be operated. Of course that's the question I'm not going to say sustainable but sustainable development. Okay, long-term development. So it's one project ahead of us that is certainly worth considering and I think it would be good if this or the next government took the project as a priority. As for the savings, I would certainly like to mention that the important savings are certainly in construction or construction, and last summer a rule on heat protection was adopted also in front of your ministry. What I would like to mention is that special attention should be paid to implementing the measures laid down in this Regulation or to go with all possible positive measures that it does not only apply to new construction but also to encourage the owners of objects that are not currently going into some specific reconstructions or have no need for any other reason for reconstruction to go to the reconstruction of objects precisely from the title of better façade insulation or less energy loss from existing objects. This relationship, or this approach, could be stimulated by various state incentives, so that the state should be the one who encourages it. As you know, we don't have a facade on many buildings today, I'm talking about family facilities that end up in brick construction and never get a facade. So these are enormous energy losses and we're not saying they don't get a thermally isolated facade. Therefore, it should be the state that will provide programmes to encourage the facilities especially in private ownership to be reconstructed or thermally isolated in order to stimulate as little energy loss as possible. Speaking of serious energy needs in Croatia, it is certainly not necessary to ignore hydropotentials even though the colleague said that we cannot rely entirely on this for reasons of changing climate conditions, but I think that Croatia still needs to rely on hydro potentials. Four reversible power plants are planned around Zagreb on the Sava. And there are also other waterways on which it is possible to build it. And certainly a common market on this part, in this area of the Balkans where cheaper energy sources can be found through the common market. And in the end maybe just one more note that there is no industrialization without energy and it is certainly one of the things that we will have to think about in the future if we want to develop and I think it is necessary for Croatia to develop and not be able to base everything on services and trade, to encourage industrial development in its own way, in a sustainable way and in this context it will certainly need to be thought about using nuclear energy whether it was done through the Krško power plant or in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87635	Replica is a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87636	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. No one normal should be against Kyoto because it's necessary, just what we know about it. We're a drop in the sea. As for energy, Croatia is already introducing 2.5 billion to 3 billion kilowatt hours. This second production is about half and half from, or 45%, 40% from the thermopower plant. We have a growth of about 5% a year. So it's very simple to count where we're going to be in 2012, where we're going to be in 2020 because regardless of I would say poor industrialization but energy consumption is growing, Commodity is growing. You need to warm up, you need to cool down, and you should think about it the same way, especially since I repeat, we're a drop in the sea again. Those who pollute the most, and those who produce the most CO2 and other pollutants, I don't think they take this problem seriously, still believe that it has no impact on global warming, and I'm not sure we're not going to tie our hands to this. And trust me one day that's a very quick question is you want to buy that energy and you can buy it? With one more thing I have to point out. Our energy is about 50% cheaper. So it's 100% more expensive in Italy than it is with us. And you need to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87637	The reply to the replica of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87638	Thank you very much. Here, I'd just like to add something to my colleague. The fact that the issue of savings is, of course, a reduction is a matter of the conscience itself or of the personal conscience of every citizen of course. However, what should be thought about is that the state should encourage its measures to go towards the public in a way that motivates it financially, as Mrs. Brnaric or someone or a colleague of Marasovic said. So, that there are state programs that will act stimulatingly on the population that it only cares about how to spend as low as possible, how to save as much as possible. So to prepare that comfort does not go to the expense of new consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87639	Thank you. Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State first of all, I'm going to vote for this bill because I think it deserves our support. But I would like to tell this brief discussion of my experiences regarding the environmental problem and everything that is related to the environment. As a statisticist by profession, I'm happy to say that our national statistics when it comes to the environment, but generally it fits into the European matrix. And perhaps, according to this statistics, Croatia is closest to the European Union because it is simply some methodological things that must be defined, which must be indicated because they facilitate a lot of professional analyses but also international compatibility. And if you look at environmental statistics, you'll see that many concepts are very clearly indicated. Without that clear definition, no more serious analysis can be done. But there is one detail that personally intrigues me to what extent is it really real or less real? In statistics, the most important part is that if we share certain stages of work, the one called data collection. I'm not sure if the data we're getting from the sources of who's giving them is the most credible. Let me just say this one of the freshest examples. We're probably all aware that what happened with the Karlovac brewery hasn't happened since yesterday. And if it hadn't been for that ecological accident in the environment, we wouldn't have known it was happening. So obviously, the question to what extent do other countries in our environment give us quality information regarding this problem? To what extent do we give quality data? I don't know. We should simply take a little care of these matters so that we can address the whole situation, and that is what we want to protect both this country and everything that is going on. One particular question that we can in some ways affect this whole problem is investment. I remember well that somewhere in the last decade of the 20th century the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has given a large tranche for investment to the Republic of Croatia and in some ways said: You can invest this money for a small and medium economy. But they were shocked when they realized that there were no eco criteria in those criteria for granting these loans at all. And I'll be very brief. That bank really opened that job. And somewhere if I'm not being deceived by about 500 credits, it's been allocated to various users with respect to that elemental criterion that we're talking about today. Environmental criteria. And that's what's important to us right now. Investments and investors, if clearly and loudly define these ecological criteria, can also have the strongest impact on everything that will happen in the future. Once again so much from me with a clear indication that I will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87641	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We got one amendment, so I'd say the Legislative Committee. It's a technical correction, and I can say that we accept the amendment so that it's perfectly clear. I would like to thank all of you who took part in the debate first for your support. I would also like to thank you for your comments, ideas that are related and that show that this problem, the problem of protecting the environment related to energy and global warming is indeed extremely seriously accepted in this Assembly and shows that the Croatian Parliament is also aware of the situation that is happening in climate change. Of course I... here words, this is what Mr. Tadic's esteemed representative said that he read, I'm sorry I might have wrongly said, that he read that in some media there are also doubts about whether the man who affects climate change is relevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are different opinions in scientific circles, there are great debates about it. However, there is this obvious likelihood that if it is in a small, small percentage, it may be that man’s activity tab on the scale. But we can't risk these things. We have to act the way we behave. And what I'd like to say in general was, on several occasions, that it's actually our shame to be among the last countries to ratify Kyoto protocol. If you look at the list of countries that are party to the Kyoto Protocol, if you count that list of states then you see that we are in an elite society, that we are in a small society of countries that are signatories and bonds of Annex 1. So we are one of the last signatories of that small number of countries that have decided to sign Kyoto protocol. And the other thing, why, is the question of why we even signed it, whether we should have signed it and whether we should have guessed differently when we signed it. We signed it because we thought it was necessary to sign it and we still feel it was necessary to sign it. It wasn't our choice whether we agreed to 5% or not. It was not our choice to assess the amount of greenhouse gases that Croatia emits in the atmosphere, but rather the result of a very, very detailed analysis, very extensive reviews by experts and officials of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Protection. So that's not what we chose, and that's not what we set ourselves up for. It's in line with all these laws. There's a lot, a lot of things you mentioned. I'd just look back on some. Maybe if you're looking around, say, the esteemed representative of Chichin-Shain's basket, I don't see her right now, this moment here she said she's afraid that because of that provision in Kyoto's show trading protocol, we're going to find someone and start selling our shows. The price of 14 euros mentioned here are the costs foreseen. Today, however, the price of trading is about 20 euros, 20 dollars per tonne. But the penalty for that default is somewhere the size of a hundred dollars. Therefore, there is no danger, there is no possibility that anyone can start trading our shows. There are different investment mechanisms in this. So there is the possibility that some of the countries invest in Croatia, in energy efficiency, in reducing emissions, and then share those quotas that have been achieved by the reduction. We have several demands, several countries. Even someone once signed a contract between Croatia and another country. I'm not going to mention them now that they're going to go together, they're so-called. ... in joint investments, in reduction. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] We didn't allow it to develop. Today we have a delegation from Japan who wants to invest in certain parts. However, all of what is related to public property will not be these options if a private-owned one of the industries goes into such a single joint must be given permission from the government. Therefore, there is still no such possibility. But there's no danger of trading in shows. I'd look back on these fuels that, first of all, were diesel that was mentioned as one possibility. We're on our way and you mentioned a few factories already built. The extremely high demand for biofuels is emerging in Europe and there is one possibility even of export potential. However, according to today's analysis of our obligation, we have adopted a regulation that 5.7% of the fuel will be replaced by biofuels in transport, primarily because it is too expensive to produce electricity but there are opportunities there as well. So in order to carry out that obligation only in diesel fuels, we need about 70,000 tons of bio diesel annually. That's why we need about 210 000 ha of surface. We heard here today someone mentioned that we have 300,000 potentials. It's just potential. It is clear that today the price of the oily turnip on the market is about 4.6 kuna per kilogram, in order to be paid according to our contribution today, that is what you said that our offering is not special and we cannot boast of it. Then the price should be three which could be resolved by subsidies. So, all that's done is become a government programme, a Ministry of Agriculture programme in a subsidization of rape oil. It should be kept in mind, however, that this is not the most unfavourable solution because it is necessary, as it is used every third year in fertility. So we can grow corn in two years, so we produce bioethanol. So there's a possibility, because there are plans. We have a strategy that was recently mentioned at the end. She is now in the debate and will be made public and we will say how it will be done. There were even questions here, so I have to look back on the esteemed MP Pankretic, who mentioned that radioactive waste, although it was answered. So there are no plans for the disposal of radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia and everything is exactly what is said. There's been a lot of talk about hydrocentrals. We have hydrothermia, we have our production of electricity as I said somewhere at the beginning is somewhere near 40 even sometimes when they're more favourable in the year 50%. We have a plan, so our system, the energy system has a plan to build large hydrocenters and small hydrocenters. Therefore, small hydrocarbons should be the least used by streams and various small words for local needs as well as for the possibility of being given into a public network. According to all estimates, the overall potential of these hydroelectrics on Savi and the hydrocenters on the Drava that we are still talking to the Hungarian side and we got their negative response moving with the reconstruction of certain plants, moving everything at a level of maybe 250 megawatts. So we've got them planned, but we don't have that much potential here anymore. What appeared was the story of the “Adrie Society, ” about returning back to that one project that fell to the environmental impact assessment. I say, therefore, the public opinion of the NGO, government associations, professionals were concerned about the situation, possible situation in the Adriatic Sea, and the project gave up on the project. However, the signing of a new pan-European pipeline contract that should continue to pass through Croatia through Slovenia to Trieste opens the possibility that the oil from the former project "Adria" will also be connected to the pipeline and not coming to the bay in Kvarner, but by going on a land road to Trieste. It was also what Mr. Prime Minister said at the speech, so there is no resuscitation of the future association, the future company of Adrie, that is, this project. What I have to say here, which surprised me, but I think I have the right to say that when it is said that the environment system in Croatia has fallen apart, regardless of what Mr Cain said that the environmental protection system did not generally exist, I must say that it has been, it appears recently and in the daily press, it is the slogan of an NGO where the president of that NGO was a few days ago when there was a debate in the European Parliament on the state report in the Republic of Croatia there and sued us with the same that the system was distributed with certain data. That representative's trip was financed by an foreign trust fund. Therefore, it was all in the means of public communication. And that's the thing that can't really be said today when we've clearly cleaned up the environment. This government has brought in a series of projects and programs starting with what we have heard, from packaging waste, tires, oil, old cars, we have closed over a thousand new jobs and shifts in quality and environmental protection are obvious, at least what we get and what the public admits to us, which the European Commission has recognised in screening. I am the head of this group of environmental negotiations, the most complex system we will have to negotiate. We also got a special confession for packaging waste. At the same time, we were sued again for a car-related rule. It's the European Commission again, she came back again and said no, the rules are fine. So we have along with everything we have and this is some of these ecological associations, unfortunately, that don't think in a way to improve the state system in the environment rather than question it. So the protection of the environment that is extremely sensitized in the European Union is used for these things. That's what I had to say, though it had nothing to do with what we just said. There's been a lot of talk about wind power plants. Quite often, here is the last thing that has been said is that individual lobbys or individual manufacturers of these equipment are involved in the race. It's clear they're on. Clearly, the situation with the production of equipment is particularly complex. And we're trying to do what we can. Today to build a wind power plant on a pillar of the so-called pillar. A column on one, one power plant of 2, 2 and a half megawatts today in Europe must wait between 2 and 2 and a half years. With some co-financing of the project, the first of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, after which from the fund, started production of wind power plants in Croatia. Our home company Končar will soon start with the first pilot project to be installed above Klis. I must also say that in the regulation brought by the Ministry of Economy it is indicated that the advantage in construction will be those entrepreneurs who will use for wind power plants, but not only for wind power plants but also for other things, at least 70% of domestic equipment. There are several of these producers who have visited and watched and are looking for the possibility of construction and pillars and a good part of the bar as far as wind power plants are concerned but are related to other things. A special story is with solar, using solar energy. We've heard that investment in such a heating system is at stake, I believe it was a Pag or an object like that, but already at sea where we have an extremely large number of hours that can be used by the sun and that investment is huge. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has launched several production projects. Production of equipment. And just yesterday, I had a chance to talk to one of our companies that's changing the system of cell production to convert sunlight into heat. This whole process in the world, unfortunately, is slow. So the point is, these cells are pretty small and the investments are big, but we're going to make and we're going to get involved in that part to boost this production with us and to increase. And what I have to answer about which rules, which laws, how we're going to implement. We've brought a whole series of laws, I'm sorry there's no honourable representative of Tonci Tadic here, but I'll start, I'll just list some. Here, in the process right now, there will be a new Environmental Protection Act in a few days. The construction law is in the works. It was mentioned here just now that the regulation on thermal insulation of buildings. We're just finishing up the so-called. The rules on labelling, eco-labelling, it's called the Eco-labelled Directive where certain products we didn't talk about today, which are electric appliances, TVs, computers, all have a special label that they're environmentally acceptable. That means they're wasting less energy than the rest of them are. The Ministry of Economy also adopted a special Regulation on tariffs for, from renewable sources of energy, etc. fidim tariffs. These fidim tariffs mean that all renewable energy sources, which means wind, biomass, etc. including those having a cogeneration in their energy use, have a preferential tariff and have the right to a direct connection. That applies to both small hydropower plants and other things. The environment ministry has made a decision to introduce 5.7% biofuels. This year, 2007, was determined by 0.9% according to the possibilities, which means the equivalent of 20 thousand tonnes of biodiesel that all fuel vendors must have, so these 0.9% must have in their sales system. Unfortunately, we don't have all that amount yet, we can't, we don't have it produced. But I'm saying there are several projects and several projects that even count on that import component. But it is one of the projects mentioned here of biodiesel production is based on the recycling of edible oil, so another special contribution which is also achieved thanks to our Waste Oil Management Regulation. So you use waste oils to produce biofuels. Because these waste oils are not suitable for refinement and human reuse. They are not suitable for what is used most today, and that is a feed additive. We are also thinking about investments outside Croatia in energy. But we must be aware that if we invest in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina which recently opened a major competition to co-finance projects that our meeting our formal condition has not fulfilled our obligation to Kyoto. So I wouldn't particularly boast about it. However, it is an emergency, it is necessary that we have to invest where possible, but provided that it is produced in a way that is possible. Methane, dumps, unsettled dumps that's the same thing we're aware of, and that's why our fund is going through this period of recovery of over 200 unsettled dumps. So all these dumps are now in the stage of the arrangement and we're going to stop by special regulations so that where you can use bio gas in the existing ones, and where you're not turning methane into CO2 which again isn't the best solution but is 17 times better than it is today. I also mentioned that future waste management centres would have the use of biogas and its conversion into electricity. When we talk about other projects, so projects that are related to farms, pigs' farms, which are related to, say, I was recently at the opening of a new job, the processing of waste water in one of our companies that deals with the processing of meat production, so finally the disposal of waste is planned in the way of production of biogas. So there's a series of projects that we're doing, we couldn't have all these projects listed here in this bill of law, so it's really not a place. However, since it has been such an interest in this, I think it was my duty to inform you of all this which is, at least in a few words. And maybe to look back, I'm not going quite consistently, but towards your intervention. Dear Representative Kramaric mentioned why we had not ratified earlier. Why haven't we ratified before, I've tried to explain here, but I'll tell you only one of the basics. This point of flexibility, point 4, of Article 4(6) of the Convention, says exactly that it is possible for transition countries to choose the second year. So there was no legal basis. We fought over the legal basis and what we did was this other state you mentioned in Kazakhstan said gentlemen give us help us solve our problem, it's not the same as yours, it's different again doesn't fit. We really, here we are, when I've taken over the duty that I'm on right now, the first thing that's been waiting for me is the ratification of Kyoto protocol, and all this time we've been trying to organize somehow so we can do it. So I wouldn't be longer. I hope I've answered everything. I thank you once again for your support, because I believe we will receive support for ratification. We'll let you know about everything, about the strategy, we'll have conversations about it. We will do everything, but we think and believe and hope that the signing of this Kyoto protocol except that it represents a great burden not only for us but also for all countries, will go in one direction to encourage new production and not to say what it will do to protect our climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87643	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the next point. ... It's true, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87644	Mr. Secretary of State said that it cannot be said that the environmental protection system has collapsed, or that it does not exist. Of course, I find that incorrect. We can argue about the assessment, but that the system does not work shows examples of Sisak air pollution, show examples of Karlovac where the unfortunate man died, show examples of what I do not know when I ask the question of what about the construction of the Lesce hydropower plant where the environmental impact study is appropriate to me from the Ministry that the study is located in the professional service of the community assembly of the Municipality of Karlovac. It may have been Communism, but one system that functions cannot answer that question to one parliamentary representative in this way. The environmental impact study must also be in your ministry if you want to monitor how this project is implemented. And that is why people come to the assessment that this environmental protection system is not exactly at the level at which it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87645	What's unusual is that it is in the community of the Municipality of Karlovac? ... It's the only thing that's gone, but it's the only flaw. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87646	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Following what has already been corrected by counterpart Pancic, it is a fact that the ministry does not work with its unhappiness or slowness. I'm going to give an example, which is with a waste management plan that's late because the ministry just doesn't respect the deadlines of the law that just proposed to this House of Commons. When the late ministry is late for the pyramid, the county's pyramid system. So obviously you're talking one way, and reality and reality is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87647	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes for and 1 abstentioned, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87650	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Very short. On 17 August 2006, a new Law on Security Intelligence in Croatia entered into force in the system, and that law fully regulated the area of security intelligence, but it also specifically sought to achieve a basic goal through this law, which is to create security conditions throughout Croatia and protect everything that is of national interest to us. However, it has been taken into account that the highest standards for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms have been incorporated into this law in order to ensure that, through the work of security and intelligence agencies and services, any minor violation of these fundamental human rights and freedoms. There is therefore a particularly elaborated issue in this law, which is the jurisdiction of the supervision of security services and the legality of work. And through that law, three levels of supervision are envisaged and they are also in practice realized. It is an executive professional part, and that means the Office of the National Security Council, parliamentaryly it is the Assembly and the Committee, and it includes citizen-civil oversight, it is the Civil Surveillance Council. We must say that in this little over 3 years' work, the Civil Intelligence and Intelligence Council in this Law, which has now entered into force in the last year, has not significantly deviated from the provision that this Law and the competences they had and in the first law when they were informed. It is also important to note that so far, the Civil Watch Council has held 111 separate sessions, which together with the board and have handled 105 services so far. In principle, it is envisaged that the Civil, Civil-Citizenal, Civil Watch Council be a service to which citizens will address with their observations. Therefore, pursuant to Article 110. The Security Services Act provides that everything that is not fully worked out and detailed in the Council's Labour Act is then governed by the act adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee, which means that this decision is taken which, then, on the work of the Civil Supervisory Council which is then used for more detailed regulation of the work of the Council. Accordingly, the Committee drawn up a proposal for that act, which is here today, the Committee and the Council jointly discussed it, and at the meeting on 23 March 2007, the committee and the members of the council concluded that they were proposing to the Parliament the decision that is now here before you. So I have already said that it is not different from what was previously in the law, so we can say that the common text of the draft decision and committee and the Council does not prescribe a new way of handling the council, but only the names of the Security and Intelligence Agency prescribed by the new Security and Intelligence Act in the Republic of Croatia are harmonised. The proposed decision regulates the issue such as, the procedure for determining, proposing candidates... the President and 6 members of the Council, issues relating to the rights and responsibilities of the President and members of the Council are addressed, the position of the board shall be determined, the way the council works, the decision-making process and the handling of data and materials shall be governed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, other technical issues related to the work of the council are being settled. So, this proposal we want to achieve the following, that the Croatian Parliament is now calling for a public call for appointment of new members of the council, that this public call is being processed and that we propose to the Croatian Parliament by the end of the summer session and to appoint a new president and new members of the Council in order not to enter the autumn part of the meeting when there will be practically no more possible to do something similar, that we do not do so in a hurry, we have proposed that we do so for now. Mr. President, I suggest you adopt it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87651	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87652	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will briefly and clearly on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. The club will normally support the proposal for a decision on a Council for Civil Intelligence Oversight and certainly support what we had on the board to appoint a president and members of the Council during this period before the parliamentary elections were held, because we know that the current Council has been working without a president since 2005 when Mr Vlatko Cvrtila resigned because he left for advisor in the Office of Presidents. Also, as we talk about this part, it has been good so far that Croatia has a Council of Civil Intelligence Oversight and the results of the work show that this is good in terms of protecting human and other rights and freedom of Croatian citizens. Here I also use the opportunity to show the satisfaction of the Croatian Party club that the appointment of Mr. Karamark to the Director of the Intelligence Agency and Mr. Cacic has led to an important shift in the professional work of the Security Intelligence Service and what took place long ago in Croatia, which is that services are now engaged in what they have been paid for, which is their basic purpose and tasks, and not to deal with themselves as before, given everything that was before for various affairs when one affair inherited the other. So this is how and how the perception of the public has changed about the work of the security and intelligence community, and it still needs to be strengthened so that all Croatian citizens have full confidence in the work. And I must also finally say that here I am repeating the request that I made on behalf of my club both Mr Ante Markov and Srecko Ferenčak to Mr and President of the Parliament and the chairman of the board to hold an emergency session, an extraordinary committee on the published video of the Brijuni Military and Political Summit of July 31st, '95. A year. Namely, according to our findings, there has been a breach of the Data Protection Act because the video has been publicly shown on HTV several times, and we have no idea that a public secrecy declaration has been carried out, we only know that a declaration has been made for the purposes of the Hague Prosecutor's Office, and there are even thorough doubts that even in one part of the video has been forged in terms of covering those counterfeit transcripts that had already been sent to the Hague Prosecutor's Office. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87653	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87654	Well, Mr. Pero Kovacevic literally said that it came through the release of that video of a breach of legality. I consider it exactly the opposite. Croatia had the right to the truth or to hear the truth, I as a citizen wanted to know what was going on and how it was spoken on Brijuni and I believe that Croatian radiotelevision had to publish that video at the moment someone sent it and that it was good that they made it. Absolutely, the Hague court should neither be mystified, nor ignored. And the fact that there was probably a little bit of a game of prosecution here with the Croatian public through that media doesn't need to be doubted as well as that in some way they wanted to give us back the ball because we simply don't want to admit on the other hand that this court has done some things for us. Because if nothing else, there's all the political leadership out of Serbia or whether or not it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87655	Thank you. Final review? The chairman of the board, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87656	I thank you for supporting this motion decision. That's actually important. This second part I would just like to say that a few days ago I asked the Office of the National Security and Security Intelligence Agency, SOA and others to prepare an analysis of the occurrence and publication of documents with the designation of secrecy and the application of the Data Protection Act, protected data. So I think it's important that the board is prepared, and so it will be prepared, the committee will be prepared to talk about the principle, to talk about the phenomenon and not just about one particular case. Thank you very much. And I recommend that you vote for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-27-0.u87657	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on a Civil Intelligence Council. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
