ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you the final proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. So the bill of law in the second reading. Therefore, I will not repeat the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been forced as a proposing to propose the adoption of this new law or the whole set of laws relating to the security or prevention of the threat of national interest on the one hand. And on the other hand, the protection of human rights, which includes, of course, the right to access information. You know that the existing law, the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Information, is indeed an old 1996 law that no longer meets the needs of modern society or international residents. This law, unlike the existing law, makes no difference compared to the data that are classified, not according to the content of the information, so according to the type of secrecy, we no longer have the concepts of state secrets, military secrets, official secrets or business secrets which are otherwise proposed by law not to be subject to the content of this law but rather to degrees of secrecy, therefore very secret, secret, confidential and limited, the procedure of classification and the bodies responsible for the classification of the data is determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And of course what's most important is monitoring and protecting that data. In relation to the debate in the first draft of this law and after the public debate and further consultation and discussion in public has been held, and in particular with representatives of NGOs, this Final Proposal of the Law has been drawn up. The government believes that it contains really important improvements to the text of the law that was before you in the first reading. In the first instance, this refers to the determination of the actual degree of confidentiality of data, or which information can be declared secret information. I've listed degrees of secrecy here. These are: very secret, secret, confidential and limited. I just remind you because you know this well that, at the first reading, the most remarks and criticism suffered the provision of this article, at the time, Article 9, which referred to the definition of the concept of that information that can be marked by the degree of secrecy "limited". Therefore, this proposal narrows down the possibility of both data content as regards the one who could have determined it. So what data can be determined by the degree of secrecy "limited"? These are data relating to the work of the authorities of the state administration or of the state administration but can no longer be identified by such degrees of secrecy as data relating to the work of the bodies of units of local and regional or regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. If this provision is therefore to be made concerning the general data which may be... The degree of secrecy connects "limited" to the previous provisions of the laws relating to the determination of the degree of secrecy "very secret", "secretly" and "confidentially", which relate to tasks from, to strictly specific tasks of the department of state bodies, which are defence, security and intelligence affairs, external affairs, public security, criminal proceedings and science, technology, public finances and the economy only if they are of security interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these data can also be marked by a degree of secrecy limited. And here we are talking about data which are of the security interest, therefore of national security and not more as it was in the bill of law of scientific interest for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the level of data that can be marked by any degree of secrecy, in particular by the degree of secrecy "limited" in substance, is narrowed down. With regard to the circle of persons who can declare the degree of secrecy to any one, and I say, in particular, "limited" we narrowed it down because several leaders of the body of the local administration and self-government cannot mark any information with a degree "limited". Only the head of the body in which the part is normally controlled by the work of those bodies may be marked by any specific information. As regards periodic verification of the data already marked by some degree of secrecy, this procedure is maintained because there is no point in keeping some data too long secret and on the other hand... To also check the need to keep the degree of secrecy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it can be reduced or possibly even increased in case of need. Here they are in line with the recommendations in relation to this periodic check. The deadline for information marked by the level of secrecy "confidential" reduces from 4 to 3 years because it is a lower level of secrecy and should be carried out more frequently. We also believe that this is a contribution to one of the greater transparency of this law. As long as we're making a difference between classified and unclassified data. Classified are those marked by some degree of secrecy. Now it is clearly stated here in the law that unclassified data are not information that is classified in its contents. They cannot be marked by any degree of secrecy and are explicitly prescribed that these are data where the public, any person who has a legal interest can seek information, access in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information. In addition, as regards the certification procedure, the establishment of a circle of persons who can therefore have the right to access such classified information by means of a certificate issued by the Office of the National Security Council is now subject to the provisions of this law, or to the safety criteria of the obstacle for which the competent authority may refuse to grant, issue a certificate. These are the reasons for the continual responsibility, the possible crime committed and the like. With the fact that the person who has been denied the certificate is now allowed judicial protection by this proposal of the law because that person can seek judicial protection by means of an administrative dispute before the Administrative Court. However, as regards the issue of certificates or access to classified information, some MPs who were presented during the first reading debate have been respected, so the exemption is except for the highest government officials, so the President of the State, the Parliament and the Government. It is laid down that parliamentary representatives, ministers, State Secretarys and Heads of the Central Authorities and certifications shall not be issued if they seek access to data within the framework of the part-rounding performance of their affairs, so that they must sign a declaration that they are familiar and will respect the provisions on secret disposing and availability of what they will learn from such data. Also, in the first debate on first reading, there was a lot to talk about, in fact, the proportion between the one part of the need to keep the information secret and on the other hand the public's interests to know now, starting with these criteria and also some discussions and round tables that were conducted in the High House in this final draft of the law, i.e. it introduces a test of public interest on the proposal of the law. So, what body that some data declared secret can, starting with a test of public interest, check actually, so make an additional... the need for this information to remain secret and to assess the proportionality between the need for secrecy and the right of the public to know, in addition to the previous opinion of the Office of the National Security Council, the final decision on the further status of that data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also prescribed in this proposal that the Office of the National Security Council implements, or has a register of all certificates issued, as well as solutions on the refusal to issue certificates and signed declarations of familiarity with the rules on the handling of classified data. This bill, as I have already said, does not contain data, i.e. does not include information which is a business secret according to its content. But starting from that, some of the objections that the trade unions have made in particular to create a possible legal gap if these provisions of the law were put in place for the force of the applicable law now to protect the confidentiality of data, this bill provides that these provisions of the law, the old one. Therefore, the still applicable law remains in force for so long as the other law lays down the rules on competition that do not provide for a way in which data which, according to its content, are a business secret. Therefore, which economic operator, companies can declare in their work a business secret. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is a brief and important matter of what the differences between this truly important law, the law on the confidentiality of information in the first reading and its final proposal is now before you. Some remarks were not adopted by the applicant. For example, it refers to the business secret, to the data, to the public publication of these sublaws but not because the motionor would not adopt it as such, but because all the rules are public data to be published as all other sublegal acts and they will be made available to the public. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that is all that concerns, by the government's assessment, the improvement of this final bill. Of course, probably from this debate and your contribution, there may be improvements in making it even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93942	The committees. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93943	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 87th session held on 12 July 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Secrecy of Information submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 9 July 2007. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee found that in the final draft of the law, the Proposer put in place a series of remarks made in the debate on the draft law, and supported the final draft decision accordingly. After the debate, the committee proposed, by a majority of votes, 6 votes in favour and one vote against, to the Croatian Parliament, to pass a law on the confidentiality of information in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93944	Other committees relevant? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93945	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. We must say that in relation to the first reading, the text of the final proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data is corrected, that one part of the remarks we had on behalf of the Croatian party of rights club, which also had other clubs or parliamentary representatives was accepted and included. Unfortunately, however, we do not have the full satisfaction of the text which will address all the issues of contentious and controversial nature that need to be resolved by law in order to protect on the one hand what is rightly marked by a certain type and degree of secrecy, which means now the following degrees of secrecy are foreseen: very secret, secret, confidential and limited. Because we've had so many cases today that something that should've been graduated like that should've been classified like that. Unfortunately, it came out in public but there were no conjectures from it, no appropriate procedure has been carried out, and that is what should have been further regulated by this law. Let's say the question of publishing the tone records of the Brijuni transcripts to this day was not resolved even though it was said and unfortunately it was given to the State's attorney to determine it, although the government could immediately state who it was and whose needs it had declassified. There's a lot of situations like that. Let's say this situation also needs to be answered. Let's say in whose capacity as an authority Mr. Sasa Perkovic went to negotiate with Zagorca. Is that classified with the type and degree of secrecy? Obviously, it was supposed to be classified who did it, because he was still the adviser to the president of the state for security, and he went to negotiate in the area of another state. And especially who authorized him to negotiate. Whether he had the authority to make promises to end the warrant and other things like that that appear in the media and that we expect the relevant bodies to manifest themselves and finally establish that this affair means Mesic – Zagorac would also not end up under the carpet and see how and how the institutions of the system function. On the other hand, we have a problem that the legal provisions are still not fully defined, so there will still be the possibility that a particular information which cannot be classified as such can unfortunately be classified as grouped and marked by a certain type and degree of secrecy, in order to cover up a situation, i.e. some illegal act or something that does not belong to this category of classified information, and that as such should be classified as classified information. In fact, it must be acknowledged that a degree has been made, so it is done by the principle of irreparable damage, the principle of heavy damage and, in principle, damaged it, but it is not sufficiently regulated. In Article 6 you have placed a degree of secrecy very secretly classifying data which would cause irreparable damage to national security and vital interests of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the following values, the basis of the Constitution, the classic of independence and integrity, international relations, etc. But unfortunately these criteria you have set for a very secret say can also be for cases of determining the degree of secrecy secretly and confidentially. That's not how you do it. It is so not done because the law as such, as a basic regulation, it must have basic criteria and say what would be globally very secretive from this point of view of these values that you have stated here, which would be classified, which would be classified. After that comes a government regulation that is as normal as in other countries outside that have passed and have regulations in line with both the legal gains of the European Union and NATO standards, but unfortunately you have not again put the sublaw of the Government that is Article 17, so the law goes, so it should be a government regulation, you have put only the way to mark degrees of secrecy. It's not the same as setting criteria. Therefore, the Government must establish additional criteria on the basis of the law, and these criteria should be developed by the head of the body from whose territory or part-time work such data arises. Because there is no such degree in the way the degree must be done, which means the basis, must be determined by law, the processing must be carried out by sublegal regulations means a government regulation and then the leaders who adopt such sublaws come. Furthermore, we do not have a secure surveillance system means that something that does not constitute the type and degree of secrecy is left to these leaders and sublegal regulations which can thus classify certain data with a certain type and degree of secrecy. It should be possible, for example, to enable the National Security Council or any other body to carry out surveillance, but when it comes to surveillance, it may automatically indicate to someone that it is as such a certain type and degree of secrecy, but does not contain and must not be defined as a data with a certain type and degree of secrecy, that it may be automatically declassified by an inspection order. This is the problem that this law has not solved, and then it will really be able to happen to these situations that something like this will be, although there is no need, even though there is no stasis or may be, it will be determined to refer to this degree of secrecy the lowest that is laid down by law, which is classified. Furthermore, it was obviously a huge mistake when our negotiating teams negotiated with the European Union, when they negotiated with NATO an alliance concerning who and under what conditions they could handle, or enter into the content of data that are as such defined by the type and degree of secrecy either from the competence of the NATO Alliance, or from the competence of the European Union. We have these international agreements, which mean above the laws here in the Parliament, so that they have confirmed, ratified and happened to us what other countries have been following, that both the President of the State and the President of the Government and the President of the Croatian Parliament so that they can handle the data that are classified as such as secrets from the NATO Alliance or the European Union should receive this special certificate which is provided for by these international contracts. Unfortunately, we now regulate this by law and this is a question of how much it is in accordance with the law can be derivated by an international contract that is legally above the law. The second is that the situation is now what I have proposed on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights and I think that Mr Arlović, we were the first to be the only one on this problem and pointed out, you put that part but only for the domestic certificate this first national certificate will not need it means having representatives, meaning certain ministers and state secretaries. I think that's where the attorney general is put, that they won't have to have it, but according to Article 22, they're going to have to have access to these international organisations, which means the NATO Alliance and the European Union, and that's not a good solution. That's not a good solution, let's just say, you're looking out for the Chief of Staff so he can't have that special certificate, he can't have a defence minister. Now that we're moving forward, there's going to be a lot of different situations and it's obvious that the government has made a big mistake in the negotiation process. It's also important here to say these other parts, the people who did this obviously don't know the system enough. Take care of certain documents from the defence plan for the sake of the county, the companies also work of special importance for the defence of the state and now you can experience the situation of holders of, say, defence preparations is the head, so the mayor at the county level, i.e. the director of a public firm. But without obtaining this domestic certificate, he can't be like that at all, and the law has determined that he is the holder of defence preparations in this area. And what happens now? Let's say that the head of a public company is appointed, but will not be given a national certificate, whether it stays in that place or not. He's like that under the law or, say, the mayor, and he's not in the law here, the mayor for this situation that I'm talking about. So the mayor is elected, but let's say he doesn't pass the security check and he doesn't get a national home certificate that he can enter this part of what the classified data means from the level of Croatia, from the level of defence, from defence preparations. Whether he will remain in charge, and by law he is also the bearer of defense preparations. You see how you didn't pay attention when you were, and I said nicely that there must be both mayors and all those who were chosen as such. So both the mayors and the heads of the municipalities, because you're creating yourself, because you don't simulate regulations, you don't know what and how anyone can be like that according to the law is determined that the holders of defence preparations, and here you're looking for a certificate, and that's what it's about when it comes to counties, cities and municipalities. So it's about representatives of citizens who are as such elected. Because you see these are all countries. Let's say the case of Slovakia, the case of all these states entering the NATO alliance, which entered the European Union. As part of these negotiations, they have imposed these restrictions on international agreements, such as those of the European Union and other countries, because the Security Procedures Act, i.e. secrecy, cannot derivate the electoral system and everything else. But normally, anyone who comes to such a place as the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, has to protect those data and normally has to sign a statement and in case something happens automatically means he'll be liable. Now watch how the same doesn't look out enough. He says that criminal proceedings can also determine to threaten that some data as such will be defined by a degree of secrecy and then it only states that the main state attorney or person authorised by him is authorized to do so. What about judges when you talk about punishment? Well, I guess it's the investigative judge who's going to determine, then, the attorney general won't determine. He may suggest, but he's not running the state's attorney-general, he's running an investigative judge. Be careful when you do something simulate all situations that may arise as such, since you have obviously not simulated them enough, and therefore you will have a lot of difficulty in applying and implementing this Law. So I'm going to speak more individually. I think before voting all these situations that I was talking about, about which I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Law and at first reading and which I am talking about now. These are all the situations that will happen and which are current and where you will have the first obstacles to the application and implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93946	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93947	Dear President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First, something about the way this Law is adopted in its final form. A meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media was held this morning. As part of the agenda, this Law should also be discussed. The government has appointed its representatives, Anna Lovrin, Justice Minister Snjezana Bagic, State Secretary of the Justice Ministry and Mr Velimir Colovic, assistant justice minister. None of the representatives of the government showed up at the Committee's session to explain this legislative proposal, and here is the debate at the plenary session. This Regulation shall enter into force The Constitution of the Government is responsible for its work to the Assembly, but apparently this Article 114. The constitution of this government is not too interested, neither the Government nor its representatives who allow themselves to be in the Parliament building and not to attend the meeting of the Committee to which they are invited. Mr. President of the Parliament, this in itself represents an inadmissible procedure. This is so much ignoring of the parliamentary committees by the government that it would actually constitute a sufficient reason for you to stop discussing this item of the agenda and to instruct the representatives of the Government to read the Constitutional Provisions, to read the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and to act in accordance with it and to suspend this debate until the representatives of the Government are entitled to attend the meetings of the Assembly committees to which they are invited. If we keep doing this then there's no point in the board meeting at all. What committees will meet if the government calls for these committee meetings to be completely ignored. Therefore, under such conditions and in such circumstances with this government's relationship with the Parliament and with the parliamentary committees, the question is how much does it make sense to discuss this legislative proposal in the first place? Therefore, my debate on behalf of the SDP club will be quite short in content. The law treats slightly illogically classified and unclassified data, and the law is called the Privacy Act. So what will unclassified data in the Data Securitisation Act when this Law is to be treated by those classified information and which are marked by some degree of secrecy. And what are they unclassified? And all those who aren't marked. They're unclassified. Therefore, they deal with some other laws, the Information Security Act, the Law on the right to access information, but certainly not this Act. Because if we're bringing weapons, I don't know what we're going to do about putting tractors in there when the tractor isn't a weapon. Never mind. It is therefore a principled remark that can create a confusion entirely unnecessary here. These unclassified data should be ejected. And secondly, the principle note is to Article 16. Therefore, the debate in the first reading highlighted the need to protect public interest, the public interest when one who classified a particular information would avoid this public interest, respect for this public interest and unauthorizedly retain a certain degree of secrecy even if the public interest was more important. It was proposed that an independent regulatory body be set up to evaluate this and that was a good proposal. The government didn't accept it. If they had come to the meeting of the Information, Information and Media Committee today, we might have heard an explanation about it, but there it is. Who now assesses the public's interest in this bill? Assess the one who classified the data. So what good is that? He put some kind of "restricted" mark on it. There is the public's interest to know what it says in the document "limited", and the one who put the mark "limited" says there is no public interest, because it does not want to take down the mark of secrecy, because it protects itself or protects any special particular interest that does not coincide with the public's interest. Therefore, if you had already resolved the protection of public interest this way, it would have been much fairer if you hadn't solved it at all. And that this, you didn't bring it into the law at all because you'd actually be more honest about what you're going to say. That you intend to ignore the public interest, that the public interest is none of your business at all. Because this is how it's done now in Article 16 that's exactly what it means. It cannot assess the public interest of the data classified. Only a third person can do that. But certainly not him, because then we have no decision in this matter in two degrees, nor do we have any independent regulatory body, nor do we have effective protection of public interest. This should be resolved by the government's amendment. Because if we write an amendment, the government will absolutely refuse it when it refuses to attend committee meetings, and what would the opposition's amendments in the first place do? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93948	Thank you very much. A few notes on this procedural question. A moment ago, the chairman of the Committee on Committee and Information and, information and media Mrs. Željka Antunovic sent me a letter saying. On 12 July with the beginning of 9 a.m., a meeting of the Information, Information and Media Committee was called today to discuss the Information Security Act. As the sittings were not responded by authorised representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ana Lovrin, Justice Minister Snjezana Bagic, State Secretary Velimir Colovic, the assistant minister, was not discussed. Since the Information Security Committee should have discussed it as a parent working body, I am sending you this notice and ask you to take the necessary actions and inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the irresponsible behaviour of the representatives who are authorised to represent them in the work of the parliamentary bodies. The Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed this law. The parent committee is not as the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, but as the parent committee, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The president of the Committee was obliged because the session was called 11 yesterday. The Committee on Information, Information and Media was required under Article 53(2), the President of the Working Body of the Assembly shall be obliged to inform the representatives of the body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article of the place and time of the meeting. The chairman of the Committee of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic did not, in accordance with this business obligation and did not inform any of the government's representatives of today's session, nor did she inform the minister, nor did she inform the secretary of state, nor did she inform the assistant minister, and therefore neither could they, therefore, have been, because they did not know, because the government representatives were not invited. Therefore, the Committee president Zeljke Antunovic's claims do not stand, nor that it is the parent board for information, information and media, nor that the meetings were responded by the government's authorised representatives because they were not invited to the meeting, and therefore this objection is totally unfounded. Let's move on. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93949	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to talk now after such rather vague formulations of what happened and what didn't happen on this previous topic. But I will try through this Final Proposal of the Data Secrecy Act, a bill that has caused no small debates in the Croatian public, probably equally in the interested or particular public above all that is in relation to this law, and especially those who through this law will need legitimacy for their work or for their activities. In fact, this bill between the first reading and today has seen only not so many changes that if you followed the presentations of the motionary in the first reading and the final proposal for a law that is before us, of course we can't take the impression that he is important, meaningfully different. It respects some of the proposals made on behalf of both HSS and on behalf of clearly other clubs of colleagues and colleagues and has tried to correct certain derogations at that level, introduce the standards that this bill would include on that level that we have since the very beginning claimed to be necessary. It's about what it's about. Today, of course, it is burdened by the many affairs involved in the illegal treatment of classified data, the unauthorized treatment of data which, according to the current law, is protected by a certain degree of secrecy, those data which are simply declared not only in places where the whole country should be located and simply participates in a totally strange euphoria in which the subject of this information or disinformation is not transferred only to our territory but also transferred to far outside the territory, so that the international public in some way has taken part in observing what is happening in Croatia on the basis of a completely unacceptable, harmful and I would say illegal way of communication, and the public authorities, when they are in terms of data that may or represent such importance which can be called within this degree of classification very secret or secret. What's this about? We have always had the same problem since we were left alone to this day. When it came to the data that made secrets, which today make secrets regardless of the degree level, there was always the opinion that the person who was the guardian or whose drawer they were in were not only the subject but also the object that had the right in some way to... And that he is the best protector and guardian of that information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is exactly the situation that has led to a general breakdown when it comes to monitoring that information and data. And simply one such hysteria has severely damaged the Croatian society and the Croatian state to date. The roots she has released are not only the ones that are said to be welcome and that the trail of these roots will lead to roots that are illegal but they are also harmful because some data have come to places where they should not come and today cause great damage to the Croatian society and individuals against whom this information has been directed. This manner of action, given that the legislator and the legislative framework did not fully specify, nor does this law, unfortunately, in certain segments, make it clear again that by changing the structure of the government, by changing people who are today acting the most important roles of the state in this society, we will again come into a situation where data is treated in this way as it is today, and today's behaviour can be characterized as an act in which the smallest number of documents even those classified are located where it should be. And the majority is located where they should not be and are treated in accordance with particular interests rather than in accordance with public interests as required. Therefore, those remarks that we have made regarding the regulation of these relations are unfortunately not fully respected and we continue to argue and we think it is very important that such solutions are applied in the context of this final proposal of the law. In fact, we absolutely think it is necessary to specify objects of interest for state bodies when it comes to data classification. Why? If we don't have these objects of interest, if we don't have these terms of content, which is what's going to need to be protected by a certain level of secret from those four, then we can simply cover everything and that means nothing. That's why I can't agree with the remark that I've been given here that there can't be any object of interest in state bodies such as espionage, terrorism, extremism, organised crime and the like. I think you should. I think we need to narrow down the front that's completely open right now, it's completely unselective and can serve and will serve to protect the particular interests of those they need at that moment. Therefore, clearly and precisely in the law, what is an object of interest when it comes to the classification of data. And secondly, to whom and how they serve. And in order to achieve all of this together, we have to have one place of origin where that classification will be monitored. I think that now that we are in the Security Services Act and other laws that have regulated such actions, we have come to this headquarters called the National Security Council Office, that it is quite all right, that it is perfectly acceptable and applicable that exactly the Office of the National Security Council has given total control over all classified data coming out of the public authorities. That way we won't have to look for where the data came from, so we won't be able to speculate in whose interest the classification of that data is. In this way, we will establish a total of supervision and there is no need to increase the administrative level of burden on public authorities. So you don't really have to take anybody in for the job. We have people who are already doing this job, we just need to clearly identify whether we really want to protect what needs to be protected or we want to create a framework in which there will simply be room for everyone to protect who needs it. So if we had this kind of relationship today, then this picture wouldn't have to go to Austria to look for what it might be in Austria today and it should be in Croatia. Then it wouldn't be a problem and there wouldn't be any ignorance in determining certain actual acts that are being tried or semi-memised today because we would know where the information came from and who was responsible for it. We today, when it comes to the most important classified actions, unfortunately we don't know the place or the authors, and if we do, then we can't conclude by law that it is. That's why it's very important. It is very important to establish exactly these frameworks that will be in the function of achieving the objective and the function of achieving the goal is that no classified document can be prescribed if we do not know why it is created. If he is not in a group of interests that he has public authority. Unfortunately, if this is not done precisely, we will have again requests, questions, chases, pranks, and all that follows the activities of those who are primarily meant to cloud the water behind them so that no trace can be found behind them and that it simply cannot be reached. Of course, I have also proposed what is in some way part of this Parliament's work once again insisting that supervision as a fundamental function and task of this Parliament when it comes to security services, when it comes to surveillance systems for the application of classified documents and in terms of this law, is insufficient. The supervision of the representative body must have its own, I would say, in the end, an almost executive role. Well, there is no Parliament, there is no serious country that does not have very clear mechanisms which, in the event of crisis moments and we are missing God at crisis times every little, can act and which can, on a legislative level, precisely through Parliament's authority, achieve what other authorities cannot. And that is to invite ministers and invite the Prime Minister and the President of the State and all institutions to testify in front of the parliamentary committee that is in charge of such a problem, it must give its statement and must speak what is asked of it. So the question of this law would be too simple to say that this law will fix everything that we lack. But with this law, we can take a different route. Of course, it is not good, of course, that it is not good that we have deprived ourselves of the right to enter equally into international acts that are classified, relating to NATO and the European Union. Of course, it is not good that some other agreements have made it impossible for us to do so today. And we can't do that today. We cannot do this today because we have previously brought another attitude. So this topic is so wide that you can talk about it anyway. Here's the President of the Parliament's declassified data on how much to drink in this House? I don't know if it's in accordance with this law or with the old one? But the good public interest is, probably the president calculated it was important to satisfy the public interest. But I think it's I don't want to judge the truth and the truth but you see everything can be in accordance with the law, but we don't want this law to be a cover for everything. [[Intruder: True.]] We want this law to regulate the most important and sensitive parts produced by every public authority. So he's not a blanket, he's a whip. Because if he's a blanket and then on, then the system will function just as badly as it's ever been. And we don't want him to function badly but to be stable, to be precise, and to know who's responsible for certain actions that are very important, very important to this country. Because if we had organized relationships in this part today, believe me, things wouldn't happen to me either in The Hague or in Austria at this bizarre, banal, and for Croatia at a harmful level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93950	Okay. We'll do something before correcting the incorrect allegations. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93951	Mr. President. Allow me, you've just called me and the constituency board because they're supposed not to be calling for a session of the working body. You have uttered a complete lie, and it seems tenorous to me and without arguments. You've put yourself on the side of the proposings who, for reasons unknown to me, have not sent their representatives. I just gave you proof that the call was sent directly to Minister Anne Lovrin's cabinet on her fax number 11.7 at 12 and 8 minutes. So yesterday at 12 o'clock and 8 minutes. I ask you to put yourself in because you have received my letter regarding not this but another law which is the parent working body, the Information Committee, to put yourself in the protection of the Parliament and to give the faith to the signed reasoned statements of the parliamentary representatives, in this case me as the chairman of the Committee rather than the unfounded and unargumented and nothing proven by the representatives of the Ministry. And I'm asking for a public apology because you called me without any reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93952	It's good to go in a cannosy, isn't it? Yeah. But about that after. First, when Representative Stazic objected on behalf of the SDP Club that a representative of the Government, the Ministry of Justice did not attend the meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I consulted and asked the State Secretary present here, Snježana Bagic, were you invited and informed at the meeting of this Committee today at 9:00? Mrs Bagic told me, "I am not informed and I am not invited to the meeting of the Committee." Then came your letter which came to me through the service of the assembly service in which you cited what I and read that the meetings did not respond to the representatives of the government and yes, and that the Committee as a parent working body needed to discuss it. I returned that feeling that the information I received from the secretary of state was correct and reliable that she was not informed. And that's why I made that point that you were wrong because no one was in the board session because it was not notified. Now you have just presented me with material evidence that since 12 o'clock yesterday the Justice Minister's office has been informed of the location and time of today's meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I checked immediately afterwards, asked to check with State Secretary Snježana Bagic at the justice ministry. She went and checked and claimed that she had indeed come to the cabinet of the minister, that a notice had come about holding a board meeting yesterday at 12 o'clock that she had been sent. But for who to know what reasons it was not forwarded to the Justice Minister's office, the notice was not forwarded to the Secretary of State, nor was it forwarded to the Minister's assistant, nor to the Minister himself, so it was not notified. The fact is, therefore, that in time, Committee President Zeljko Antunovic informed the Ministry of Justice that a meeting of the Committee will be held today at 9 pm and you are right from that point of view. You're wrong about the other part that it's the parent board of information, information and media. Yeah, okay. Secondly, you could have been in a good mood when there was a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system in the House yesterday at 9 a.m., and today that discussed this proposal was to be called, to see why there was no, why there were no representatives of the Ministry and you could have called them. She could've called your secretary or you could've called what's usually done. So it was of good faith that all this could have been expensive and eskicipated. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93953	Mr. President, it's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93954	Please slowly, we can't do this! Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93955	Just one little correction, so I don't answer later. I'm asking you to take a careful look at the memo. The letter refers to the Information Security Act, not the law currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93956	Information security, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93957	However, you used the debate of the MPs who had nothing to do with me as chairman of the board and the memo you received, to arm me here in the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93958	Who put you up to it? You're not armed, and why...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93959	And you're trying to do it again. I'm asking you to... our good relationships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93960	Don't. Then why is the debate on the confidentiality of the information law why this committee is then objecting to it is not yours to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93961	What does a letter from the board president have to do with the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93962	Well, I wonder what it's got to do with anything. Well, because Agent Stazic, on behalf of the SDP club, objected that this...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93963	Did I write to you on behalf of the SDP club or on behalf of the board president?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93964	You two make a deal. Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93965	Thank you very much. Well, I have to say that Madam President of the Information Committee puts total chaos and disorder into the work of that committee, that I'm not surprised that all of this happened because today she called HINA representatives to the point that was done yesterday. This is not the first time that this committee has on the agenda points that have been done long ago. It's called incompetent management of that committee, and we've been pointing to that for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93966	What? It was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not Mrs. Martincevic's breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was one comment on and commenting therefore the president on the conduct and management and schedule of the session of the chairman of the committee. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure and don't do it. Let's move on. Why do you need a break, please? You need a break? Which is why, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93967	Allow us a break for the club for consulting on the obvious violations of the Rules of Procedure during the debate in the Assembly and for allowing without any grounds, cause or reason to be inflicted on members of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93968	Order! The HDZ representative club is the respected representative of the club's president, Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93969	The exclusion of this session is intended to create a special atmosphere in the Assembly and require every opportunity to do so. On behalf of the HDZ club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break so that we can consult on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93970	Okay. HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93971	Thank you very much. The HSS Club is also concerned that we cannot participate in a good debate on these issues and we want to be clear about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93972	Okay. HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93973	The HSP club is also looking for a break, but for other reasons, because the transfer of the election campaign to the Croatian Parliament at every point, I don't think it's going to be an honor, and for that reason, we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93974	HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93975	The Croatian People's Party club also requires a break of at least ten minutes, but with one additional argument. These, both yesterday, and during today's day, and what you have announced that we will do. At the same time as at the time of the bill's delivery, we are simply prevented from studying and preparing for debates, as the committees meet about every two hours. The peace laws you put into the agenda yesterday afternoon came 15 minutes ago into the club representatives worth about a billion kuna on the annual level and I don't think this kind of continuation of work today and tomorrow makes it possible for Parliament to work normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93976	Okay. IDS representative club Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93977	And nothing, just to hear the voice of reason in this House, that's why we're looking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93978	A variety of Rotterdam votes will be heard by Parliament's representative Damir, Zlatko Kramaric HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93979	It's just one voice of IDS's mind, it's got to be heard and the voice of HSLS' sanity is going down, and we have to consult to see how we're going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93980	Okay. Ten minutes. At 10.45, it continues, and we'll be working without a break today. Without a break until the date and day when all the items of the agenda that are included in the updated agenda are completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We'll continue the session after the request for a break. SDP counseling club, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93982	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. It was really not our intention to spend these 10 minutes on a club break and an agreement on something else important and what we have been witnessing lately in the work of the Parliament. Here we are today trying to accuse us of trying to create an extraordinary atmosphere in the Parliament, and we are just normal representatives, people who are seriously accessing their work and who want to discuss every proposal that comes, discuss it in accordance with the procedure because the procedure is the basis of the guarantee of democracy. We'd like to put our comments on all the suggestions we're discussing here and we're bringing and for that, and we're looking for minimum conditions for normal work. It was not really our intention to create any extraordinary atmosphere or to waste time discussing procedures. However, the extraordinary atmosphere, and even the humiliating position of parliament and MPs, creates a government and deadlines in which the laws arrive at the Parliament, are being debated and adopted. There has been a continuing formal debate, a formal passing through these laws, and sometimes, until now, we have not directly pointed to it, but I must now say, sometimes there is also a real violation of the rules of procedure and it is a drastic violation of the rules of procedure. Instead of calling the government here in the Parliament for this reason, it is unfortunately called representatives and clubs that point to such inadmissible practice. It is clear to me that you, Mr. President of the Parliament, as representative of the HDZ majority here in the Parliament, are trying to protect the government, but someone should also protect the Parliament's dignity and the dignity of the MPs, so I would say the responsibility of the MPs. At this session, all the time from the government in piles, new laws arrive that I don't know where they've been and what's been going on this whole year and all last year. They come at the last minute before the summer break and before the end of Parliament's term. It is very important laws, laws whose content is important for Croatia's entry into the European Union, but also important for strengthening democratic relations in this country. There are no conditions to seriously address these laws. As representatives, we have serious problems with people, with citizens we communicate with and who wonder how we allowed things to go through these laws because they are totally unacceptable, and the fact is that these laws are implemented on our benches, in our hands sometimes the day before the debate at the plenary session. These are the conditions that are unacceptable, these are the conditions that we protest, these are the conditions in which the Parliament can only formally work, and the actual contribution and results cannot give. Without any special intent or intent, we want to publicly point out this fact and appeal once again that we are allowed normal conditions for working in the Assembly. We simply don't want to look back on everything else regarding lunches with SDP representatives because it's below each level.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93983	Thank you. All European Parliaments, congregations have been working at a fast pace when special laws have been passed with which domestic legislation is aligned with the acquiss of the European Union. That's what this Parliament does the same way. Ask any President of Central Europe, Western Europe or those Member States who entered to work during the summer, to work on a speedy pace, and here, the establishment has now been finalized here, following the establishment of the negotiating positions, has been finalised in agreement with the European Commission legislative solutions, and this is why indeed one huge amount of legislation comes, especially European laws coming into Parliament's agenda, is being included, entered, and I think that we should all be actually satisfied with the fact that the legislative activity of the Croatian Parliament in approaching the European Union has been dynamically dynamicd. Look, let's ask any parliament how he hastily worked from Slovakia, Bulgaria and others as he has been working hastily in harmonising legislation with the legal gains of the European Union. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93984	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague who says that the government is creating an atmosphere of humiliation to the MPs because the laws go too fast, because they don't have enough time and everything. I must say that the speed of the Parliament's work is determined by the representatives themselves by their stay in Parliament and by their reporting laws, and there are no majority of the opposition MPs travelling around instead of sitting here and reporting for what they want to say in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93985	HDZ Representatives' Club, Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93986	Your Honor, Mr. President, it started with one topic to end up on the other. It began with a correction of the allegations, i.e. a business objection to the work of the board, to move on to how the Parliament protects the government, not to protect the Parliament and parliamentary representatives. So that fact also speaks for the sake of the fact that it's an attempt to destroy the work of this body, this House to bring in the beating things, the beating laws that are in favor of our citizens. In favour of our citizens, above all, of new pensioners, because there is a law that needs to be spoken of and that needs to be solved by this great problem for over three hundred thousand people who need to be helped and found a solution to help them. And this government, in agreement with the pensioners, has found those solutions and that solution will be proposed or proposed to this Parliament. It may seem funny to you, but obviously you're not interested in it. Because if you were interested, you'd suggest something else. If it's too short a time today and tomorrow let's work next week, let's do fourteen more days. Suggest an extraordinary session so say, suggest something constructive in the sense that it is done. In the sense that problems are solved. It is of paramount importance that these laws which are access to the European Union, which comply with the legislation, be passed with the European Union's rules, because some or some have come to a stage of negotiations when they can be adopted. When such decisions can be made, such laws may be passed. So we're not in any tea note. The government didn't limit us to how long we'd be working. The government didn't say, you must be finished in 24 hours. The government has provided materials and the basis of the laws to be passed. It's decided on us what we're going to do. Suggest it to be done. But don't stop the debate. Don't put the Parliament in a position where, instead of dealing with laws that are extremely important, I repeat again, for that number of people, let us work. Let's get you involved in this. And I would especially like to say that by doing so, the Government is begging you, harassing and disdaining the Parliament for proposing legal solutions that are in favour of people. So what's that approach? [[/Intruder: That's right.]] What kind of approach is that? We can't deal with these problems in that way, because it's going to come very quickly to the expression that you're doing the obstruction of this House and that through a formal sort of thing from the board that I hear there's even been an attempt to throw out one of our MPs, from a member of that committee to get out, to leave the session, through which you're trying to get to the right topic, which is, we don't want to discuss the laws that are in the interest of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93987	Okay. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93988	It is an incorrect assumption that the SDP club is obstructing the work of the Parliament. You're obstructing him with lies and attacks...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93989	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93990	The attacks...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93991	My colleague Antunović!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93992	The attacks on the MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93993	My colleague Antunović! I'm warning you, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93994	The attacks on SDP agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93995	Pick your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93996	As for the others...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93997	Pick your words, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93998	The other blames the quote. It's not about obstructing the debate on pensioners because the government could have found a solution by now. He's been looking for him for three years. We found him a year ago, and you turned him down. And so far, it could have been discussed in peace and regularity, and the new pensioners could have received pension differences, and this is how they will only receive them as a pre-election promise. That's about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u93999	Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not turn this debate into anything but... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't throw it at me because it's basically rude. Secondly, it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. And the third isn't nice. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94000	It is not true that Jarnjak's colleague, the SDP club, is conducting an obstruction of the work of the Parliament. The fact is that the government is conducting an obstruction of Parliament's work by not sending its representatives to the board's meeting. And the obstruction is when it's tolerated in the Parliament itself, so in this case, I think the president should have been more energetic towards the government's representatives. And as for that, we're working. Well, you can't put two liters of water or wine in a bottle if you want. So we can't discuss a hundred laws in two days. We're working next week. We've been working for three weeks. We're doing a whole litto. But don't blame us for being against the law, because it occurred to you at the end of the fourth year of your term to pass two thousand laws in one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94001	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94002	So come on... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94003	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94004	It's incorrect for us from the SDP club to obstruct the debate. It is incorrect that we want to stop the adoption of laws that are in favour of citizens. We're just opposed that in one day, yesterday we discussed twenty laws, today we're going to do just as much. Therefore, it is not possible to pass 40 laws in two days to make it a quality debate. It is also incorrect that we should propose an extraordinary session. An extraordinary session can be proposed by the Government if it has an interest in this, and you can also suggest to the clubs that they are for this extraordinary session and that in peace we adopt these laws that will benefit the citizens, which will have to affect a different budget than we discussed two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94005	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94006	I am also correcting the incorrect assumption that my colleague Jarnjak said that here we are, as an opposition, obstructing the adoption of the law, as says counterpart Jarnjak, in the interest of the citizens. The interest of fellow citizens Jarnjak, has been neglected all these four years and the interest of citizens is too great to be contained in two days. You've had four years to take care of the citizens' interests, that they can count on you, but it's too late and certainly more since you didn't count on citizens, those same citizens don't count on you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94007	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Whoever's counting on it we'll see in the election, right? We can't do that with our throats in strawberries. We can either put our throats in strawberries or run in front of the ore or...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94008	I'm correcting my fellow Jarnjak that we don't care about the solution to the new pensioners' problem. That claim, such an assumption, may have been given by someone with a parachute after three and a half years of falling into the Parliament. And I ask and remind you of how many new pensioners' laws were rejected back a year by the parliamentary majority's decision? How many proposals on the agenda are waiting seven, eight months for the government's proposal of law to begin reading within 12 hours? If anyone cares, it was the one who suggested on time, the ones who didn't care and the panic was about the election, now it's going through the emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94009	Comrade Lesar, why did you recognize yourself? In no way did the representative Jarnjak say on behalf of the HDZ Club in any way, he neither directly nor directly said nor could it be concluded that he made you responsible and that something was coming to you. I don't know why you are. Injury of the Rules of Procedure MP Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94010	Dear Mr. President, Article 208, 209. ... I have to say, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Lesar is usually combing where he shouldn't be itchy, but it's itchy because I can see it because I hit the subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was talking to the exact club I was talking to, and if you didn't hear that, that's your problem. You can't fix something to me that I didn't tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94011	And a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94012	In his address to parliamentary deputies, Col. Jarnjak said, among other things, that we do not want to discuss laws that are of interest to Croatian citizens. It's just not exactly a fellow Jarnjak. 'Cause remember, if there was nothing else in the SDP bill that was about resolving pension issues because that's what you were calling for in your address, that's exactly what you're calling for, and you're giving them a smooth rejection without even discussing them. And what we don't want as a SDP club is that we don't want to be at the SDP club either, but this Parliament has been a cover for the government's inadequacy for the last three years, so now it's burying us in the last two days with a lot of bill proposals and asking us to discuss it. And by the way, I'm one of the ones he thinks we've been doing this whole summer in peace with all the bill proposals and catch that train to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94013	HSS representative club Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94014	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I apologize for this circus involving their elected representatives because they, our citizens, did not deserve it. Our citizens didn't bring us here to talk about things that don't concern them, but to talk and to work on those things and problems that concern our citizens' interests, and our citizens have their own interests and these interests are articulated in this agenda that we have today. Unfortunately, the speed when we talk about her is sometimes good, sometimes she's not. When it comes to laws, speed is not good. Quality is more important than speed, and we will not agree at the HSS Club at speed, but we will agree and propose to the President of the Parliament not to stop the work of the Parliament on the day when it is due to stop but to continue the work of the Parliament until the moment until all points are done because we have points waiting for a few years to come. Secondly, as regards those draft laws that the HSS Club referred to in this Assembly and especially regarding pensioners a year ago, we referred the proposal for a law on new pensioners as well as the new accounting system. We thought that this gave the government a good opportunity to bring what is in the interest of our citizens together with the pensioners, and we don't allow anyone to put in a basket those who aren't interested in solving these issues because it's simply not true. Secondly, the HSS club long ago gave the proposal for a road safety law in the sense that the debate on the effects of applying 0 alcohol promotions that are only justified under the current law. We believe that the time has matured and, unfortunately, by the results, negative and citizens' expectations of amending this law. And some colleagues from the ruling coalition's clubs at this point very clearly and unequivocally support these changes. Therefore, our conclusion is very simple. We're not going to engage in any infertile useless controversy that goes after who's more right, who's less right. We are interested in continuing to work on harmonisation of legislation but on one that is in the interest of Croatian citizens and in the way that it is in their interest. Gentlemen, yesterday we passed laws, three laws in 45 minutes. Every 45 minutes, three laws. That's inadmissible, that can't be good. There is no excuse even that there are not enough parliamentary representatives in this room. These laws for the sake of the quality of the debate, for the sake of the interest of the Croatian public, cannot be adopted in this way and that is not good. Therefore, the HSS Club invites you to extend the work, the session of this Parliament until the day until all the bill proposals are settled in quality, including those who wait a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94015	To all MPs and representatives of colleagues, Markov is not prevented from discussing as much as they wish in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The fact that some MPs are not answering, are not interested is their business and you can't call and now ask for MPs why they haven't discussed certain laws. There's plenty of time and there's plenty of time and there'll be enough time for those remaining laws that have been discussed to vote and to conclude this session. So there are no reasons and don't apologize for anything on behalf of Croatian citizens. This wasn't a circus in Parliament, no circus, but it was a debate, a democratic debate and a debate, and don't call it a circus yourself. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jagoda Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94016	Thank you very much. I was just about to say that today is no circus, but it's a demagogy of opposition because it opposes all the laws of common sense. He thus speaks of something that was concluded yesterday in the government well and what needs to be discussed today. This is an obstruction of good government proposals. And the circus was yesterday when we were 50 sitting there and you were four on the other side. It was a circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94017	Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94018	Mr. President, I am also correcting that we are currently participating in a circus in the Parliament. I really don't. But we've been participating in the Parliament's ongoing troublesome work for the last 10 days for the next reason. Can one answer, gentlemen, how much money has been spent on the laws that the Parliament has passed, including this proposal that comes with pensions. It's too big a number of laws we're making here that we don't know what they mean. We spent here in the last 10 days, according to my estimate, about 5 billion kuna per year, and that deficit with pension costs of 4.6% of the World Bank raises to about 6% of the deficit. Who takes care of it and whether it is really such a large number of laws, such weights that none of you even know how much money they require to bring... /The speaker has been excluded./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94019	Comrade Marks, stick to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94020	I am correcting the infringement of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Everyone corrects me in what I didn't say, including you. I would beg to be corrected in what I said and not in what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94021	You were corrected because you claimed there was a circus here in the Croatian Parliament. That's what everyone heard, and that's where they corrected your quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94022	Mr. President on A metaphorical level, you've hardened a lot. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94023	Thank you very much. You make a statement to your colleague, Markov, to the public in this House, and then you say you didn't say it. And then you challenge and object to those who said... what you've indicated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's amazing right now. That's amazing. HSP advocates' club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94024	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, which we've also asked for a break, I must say what we consider to be the most important. I think that about all that's happened today, we can most measuredly talk about the Croatian Party Club of Rights because of the following facts. Unfortunately, the election campaign started too soon. Both HDZ and SDP use in every occasion as well as today this election campaign assembly, which is contrary to both the Constitution and the laws. It means that it is contrary and certain that Croatian citizens did not choose us to follow these debates that really, let the citizens themselves evaluate Croatian about what it is. We stick to why Croatian citizens chose us. Let's discuss what needs to be discussed. We fight for the common good. It was also done by the former government in the former meeting of the Croatian Parliament, as this government does before the break, whether it is a summer stop, whether it is a winter stop then a huge number of legal texts were delivered and we have warned it before and we are warning now. Because this is the part where we create a legislative stampede where it is possible that various solutions as well as corrupt and other insertions into legal texts and then we wonder what kind of laws we have adopted in the Croatian Parliament. I therefore call on both HDZ and SDP deputies to stick to the Rules of Procedure. That they don't run an election campaign on every occasion. And I also draw attention to MPs or the Social Democratic Party Club, don't call people telephone and then send them letters pointing out that there will be room for you and everyone else at our table. You have no right to do that. It's the same campaign management. We've got 30 and some of those letters at the club. I've got over 50 people sending me home. Don't do that and use the election campaign when the election campaign hasn't started and the people are, they won't receive those letters of yours and don't send them unless they agree. You can send this if it's an election, if it's an election campaign. And the biggest problem is so please nice, so here we must, let's be responsible for Croatian voters. Let us professionally carry out our mandate until the end as representatives from the Croatian Party Club do, and we are here as you see for yourself the spine of the Croatian Parliament that we are seeking to direct the debate but in the next session this will be all a lot of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94025	Corrections to incorrect allegations were respected Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94026	Sir, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have to correct not only the false allegations, but at all the the the thesis of fellow Kovacevic, by which some parties, including the SDP, could not have, have the right to communicate with their membership and their voters. So you know parties among other things, and there's to communicate in a multiparty system with citizens and voters. Ma'am, just keep your voice down, give me a minute. [[The intruders don't understand.]] To communicate with them, to educate them, and to open up the opportunity to get acquainted with their programmes so that they can actually choose in the democratic process the authority that suits them and to which they will pass through them. That's why they don't use it. I don't know. And second correction, you know, Parliament is a legislative and representative body of citizens. And to say that there is no way to address citizens in the House, even if it is part of an election campaign or pre-election activity. It's a little unusual. [[Intruder: It's not.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94027	But it's not a colleague Arlovic's correction to an incorrect quote because what's unusual, whether something unusual is, falls into some other order of value rather than a correction of an incorrect claim. You know it well. ... Let's move on. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Marin Jurjević, a respected, correction of an incorrect quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94028	Col. Pero Kovačević incorrectly said that SDP and HDZ are using this debate for an election campaign, and this fellow who belongs to this party who appears to be "the pseudonym column vertebralis" or the spine of the Croatian Parliament, which seems to have caught a little lumbago. So HSP constantly... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94029	Come on, thank you very much. They're no longer correct. Don't. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, the correction is to use]] Yeah, but don't add it. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] So why are my people doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94030	Excuse me, did he say we're using it for an election campaign?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94031	He said that, but he didn't say for lumbago. [[Intruder: This is an incorrect quote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94032	And I'm listening... We are the smartest, we are the spine of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] I tell them, "Yes, but you have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94033	Let's go, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94034	A colleague, Kovacevic, but it was probably a lapus of lingua, but it also needed to be corrected, so it was difficult to capture and find both the subject and the forerunner and the attachments and attributes that we do not speak. But he certainly said that there, please allow the government to embody corrupt solutions with its legal proposals. Thus, the government does not embody corrupt solutions in any of its proposals. That's incorrect. We let go of the practice, but it is true that there are no corrupt solutions and colleagues eto Pero Kovacevic you often perform in the morning in such opposition, and in the afternoon you all vote with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94035	Come on, now there's comment and that. Come on when the ball is a ball!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94036	Dear Mr. President, my colleague Ingrid was normally not even read by the Rules of Procedure abused the article.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... incorrect quote, and you have your husband about corruption and discuss it with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94037	We can't do this! What is it now? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who sows, here's who sows. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94038	I'm not going to talk here about exploiting ore treasure and all that. We'll do it on another occasion, and yet I've never been accused by my wife of what you're saying. There were other false accusations, but it's not for this again. But you're hurt that's what you said, and I don't believe that you said it on purpose, and what it was was a lapus lingue that was supposed to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94039	Yes, thank you very much. Let's let the lapus lingue go. Let's get back to the lapus chalami. Let's go, Agent Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94040	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that two of the strongest parties in Parliament, HDZ and SDP, are running the campaign here, and that we do not want to discuss, come on, can I start over?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94041	So let's go while your colleague calms down!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94042	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations that HDZ and SDP are running the campaign, and against the law, I say. In fact, campaigns, election campaigns are run from election to election, so if that were true, it wouldn't be the opposite of the law. And if it is true that HSP is the spine of the Parliament, I am sure that she will remain the opposition spine of the Parliament in the next term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94043	Okay. HNS, representative of the respected Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94044	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This situation could be expected because some would say this is the result of a legislative stampede back ten days. But what seems to me to me yesterday and today in Parliament is that it is actually a kind of tsunami, a legislative tsunami that we are exposed to at the end of this session, not only because of the completion of the agenda, which is nothing new, but also a record that we achieve yesterday, as Parliament discussed 25 points of the agenda during a single day. The committees are sitting in such a way that we no longer know which committee, with which session agendas are cancelled for various reasons, and I remind you that today and tomorrow, other than these praises of the valuable laws that the government stops every day at two extraordinary sessions, we have in the Committee on the Constitution 24 candidates for 8 judges of the Constitutional Court. In the Committee on National Security, 14 candidates for 7 members of the Civil Surveillance Council. The Committee on Information and Media has 64 candidates for 6 seats in the Programme Council of Croatian Television and we have to negotiate, decide, vote in these two days. The peace laws for new pensioners were put on the agenda yesterday afternoon. They should be discussed today and tomorrow voted and now that we are negotiating quickly and by quick reading the text of the law, I see it changing and it follows the provision as it is in the existing law, so we must also review the old law with a new proposal for reasoning and interpretation, to understand what it says. We are trying to declare that we have no interest, that we are not interested in the interests of the citizens, that we have no interest and that we are only doing a political or party campaign here. But in that even those laws that bear the label P.Z.E. After the debate is concluded, and at the moment of the vote, the government comes with its amendments. We finish the debate. Remember last Friday's agriculture sector five laws, 40 amendments. Explanation. Harmonisation with the European Union directives five years old, six years old. During this debate, the government's amendments to budget rebalances have now come at the moment. The rebalancing debate is over. The government is making amendments to the budget rebalance. We have no interest. Can you be sure that the laws we are discussing tomorrow will not be changed by the government's amendments. How can we be sure of something that these extremely good laws that you are discussing will be adopted as the government comes with its amendments to each law. At this session, every proposal of government law comes to the government's amendments. You're trying to blame us for obstructing the Parliament. How? Because we want to conduct a discussion based on a study of documents. Because we insist that the pace slows down or at least adjusts the reading possibilities, and this debate in the House, Mr. President, goes more quickly than what a man can normally read. So I appeal to the laws that, about yesterday and today, 5 billion kunas the value of the law on an annual basis and all apply or most of them from 1.1.2008. Very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94045	The government can and can do so both this government and any previous government that has delivered the amendment after the final debate on certain laws or decisions after the deadline, and then we have always voted on such an amendment and then decided whether or not to argue and after that debate we voted on so that it is a very common thing. And second, I repeat. All MPs report for a word, and why someone won't discuss certain laws is his business. Now we can't call out why the MPs on some legislative proposals appear only one or two or the representatives' clubs, it's in every Assembly. Why now seems to be some regret because someone doesn't discuss the laws. Let's make a few corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Jagoda Martincevic Majska.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94046	Thank you very much. It is incorrect what counterpart Lesar said that the Information and Media Committee must select six members of the Croatian Radio and Media Council within 24 hours. Because of the public, they will not be elected until autumn, and that is after the agreement by the clubs. But it is true that the president of that committee is causing chaos by his leadership, and then accusing the President of the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Assembly. That's true, and once again, I stress, that committee is being conducted completely incompetent.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94047	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94048	Well, here's to correct a colleague that's been calling for tsunamis in the Parliament the last few days. I can say that it is actually a breeze, a pleasant breeze that is passed by these very laws on new pensions, but unfortunately that breeze has the effect of tsunamis in SDP and HNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94049	And respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94050	Mr. President. A colleague, Lesar, is not true that tsunamis bring laws to the Croatian Parliament. They are proposed by the Croatian government and sent according to its procedure. The truth is you weren't in the Parliament's last meeting, the Parliament's last meeting ended with an extraordinary session after midnight. Now the comparison, go outside, on one table are applications for the current bill proposals that you will end up wanting today, or tomorrow, unlike four years ago when there were four tables full of applications because your coalition authority brought three, not five minutes before twelve but three minutes before twelve. As you came to the tsunami, you will leave the Croatian Parliament with a small flood.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94051	IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94052	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the difference... /The speaker is not understood, because Zdenka Babić Petričević./... in this Parliament I am every day from 12 to 19 hours, not from 12 afternoons, but 12 and 19 hours. But here I agree with those that the way we work is common before each summer break and before each election. It was so 95 to 2007 and we'll also agree that it's not good. After this law is or comes this Law on the Equality of Old and New Retired. This law must be passed and must be passed as soon as possible. Why? Because he's tagging 364 thousand pensioners plus by the end of the year still about 25 thousand of our fellow citizens. But in that law I raised yesterday at 7:15 p.m., which everyone mentioned, it's a half-delivery, i.e. The new pensioners will not be evened with the old one, but I repeat only to the half. New pensioners will be somewhere on 37% of the average salary, totalling 43 when taken old and new. And I ask so much that we do this law as soon as possible or that, as some suggest, we go to an extraordinary session. I agree to pass one fair law is our moral obligation, not to go with legal solutions only to half. When in one day, I'm going to talk about it in the debate, that's right, Mr. Hrelja. When in one day as it was yesterday, we do 25 points of law, sometimes on our feet and 19 hours, which the public can expect from the MPs, or the law. We are turning Parliament into a legislator, and the government into a mechanism for sealing these laws, and it is not perspective, no matter what I repeat once again, it was a common practice both during the coalition and all those previous governments. The Croatian Parliament may have a different approach to fight for its dignity. In 2000, a semi-presidential system was replaced by a semi-parliamentary system, and the dignity of this House will be fought when we really become or when we fight for a parliamentary structure in the Republic of Croatia. It's clear that it's easy to say, but the question is what's going to happen by election. The government needs to be clearly taught how to work. What has not been brought in for, say, three or four years, is difficult to do if it is passed over the last three or four days of the session at least all the good solutions should be welcomed, all the good solutions must be supported, but let me know that these conditions in the last 15 days are almost semi-regular. I repeat, this has happened before. So let's all raise our voice together for the dignity of this House and that's the only way to help both citizens and the state as a whole because we here are not alone. The law on the equalisation of these pensions by my court must also follow the cameras, although this is less important, it is more important that pensions are really equal, and not after the adoption of that law the difference between the new pensioners and the old pensioners is -5.47% compared to these new pensioners. Mr. Jurovic, you can pour two liters of water in a liter bottle if she leaks to you. Now, that's the problem with girls working like that, and our laws, but, well, Mr. Hrelja has no rest while we're rebuilding. I am the first to attend an extraordinary session of this House, and it is not good for the Government of the Parliament to remember only before the end of our session or its term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94053	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94054	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct Mr. Cain's allegations when he said that this next law that goes into equalising the pensions of new pensioners was a camera problem. So this is what is done today in the Parliament so that individuals who came by today exclusively during television broadcasts that one such good law that was agreed yesterday at the government with a party of pensioners would not debate during direct transmission,... It's a good thing the government didn't see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's clean this whole show I've been listening to here for a couple of hours is about it, we're gonna show up on TV, we're gonna talk about anything but not one good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94055	And another voice of reason, Zlatko Kramaric, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94056	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We could very much paraphrasise Remark and say nothing new in the West, so neither in the Croatian Parliament is anything new, all of this has already been seen many times and this is politics, politics has also been affected by estrada and certainly is used every moment to try to send some political messages. That's how it was in the '90s, that's how it was after 2000, that's how it was 2007. What may always be regrettable is that we, in fact, are these two, are one of the fundamental questions that the Parliament is always asking us at the end of the term of office. Almost the entire mandate we are actually avoiding to answer, to define the role and place of the Parliament in our political life, then this is when this nervous time comes, and the pre-election times are always quite a nervous time, then we certainly open up this issue, and then we are very sensitive to the procedure and to the speed and then we ask and we open up the question and the quality of the laws that are coming, and our debates, even though we are indeed none of us, or we ourselves can actually slow Parliament's work. We can slow it down if we really want to do so if we were disciplined and if indeed everyone, or we wouldn't just realize that some points were done too quickly. Obviously these points are too fast done because in a given day, which is most often when there are no cameras, there is no greater interest in sitting here and discussing the proposed points. As we have the custom of making a cartoon out of our own Rules of Procedure, so what I have to admit is that in my liberal head we don't go to set up replicas within the same club, and then it always lasts exclusively in the morning, but when the afternoon comes, then we don't apply that practice anymore, and then we simply and really, really, the largest number of these legal proposals just goes through without the debate of clubs, and without these individual discussions. So let's not complain about that practice that, I say, has become, for years in this House, that it's always the center of power behind the new Parliament. So it was in the 1990s, it was in Pantovchak, and we actually allowed ourselves to move to the Ban's Courts after 3 January, and that's how it goes, and then we're pretty nervous just because those of us who have this legitimacy that we're a representative body, that we've been elected by the citizens, then we actually have to blame ourselves for not having enough power, or political will to check these relationships, and that right now, that the Parliament is asking itself, and not that this way we're going to be on a tail event and that we follow the pace that others impose on us and then I say when this pre-election time comes, then this is coming up that I'm saying it's totally understandable actually nervous because we're just being honest that we're just not too interested in the measurement of things, but exactly what we're going to leave it's going to be, and what messages we're going to be. Unfortunately, there must be a part of this game, and in the end I have also reported to advertise and say something in the name of my club, but although I am truly aware that this has long been seen that these are actually political demagogy in the work where I say they use only these particular details that may be standing and do not stand the seriousness of the promoters whether they come or not to the meetings. I say it's complete, it's entirely irrelevant. So we go back to what we ourselves can fight, which is that if these laws come, this set of laws on pension reform that is very important about harmonising old and new pensions that exactly the number of our applications and the quality of the debate we really try to see, and in the end it refers to a large part of our citizens, a large part of our population, then in fact, we have there, we hold some fate in our hands, and I believe that we can produce one and a good law regardless of these times. The same thing I don't run away to do, because it was a practice, it was done in July and after 15 July in Parliament, but I say it was all already seen and not to be too surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94057	The Croatian Parliament has become a legislative and representative body under the Constitution at the head of the division of power. The government is an executive government. The government runs internal and foreign policy. The President of the Republic has his constitutional... Fate power is independent, independent, and what relations in politics it decides and dictates parliamentary, parliamentary majority and minority relations, and that is the case in every parliamentary system in the entire democratic world, so nothing needs to be changed when the Constitution determines what parameters and relations between all three bodies, all three branches of government. [[You don't understand.]] The second is a matter of one application, and those who constantly complain and advocate that Parliament should give some different meaning and influence, actually the implications advocate the change of the Constitution or advocate something else. One advocates that Parliament should actually be aware of, nothing more than one talkative room and others argue again that Parliament does not act so it would like, Parliament has a prerogative executive authority what we are under the Constitution as we are designed. Now we've done well in this sacred debate for an hour and a half to lose, so we're back on topic. The club of IDS MPs, the esteemed representative Damir Cain, on the final proposal of the Privacy Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94058	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, Therefore, the basis of this Data Securitisation Act has access to classified data and the issue of certificates without the prescribed certification procedure to the President of the Republic, the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Prime Minister, which is absolutely logical. It is further said that parliamentary representatives, ministers, state secretaries of central state offices, judges, chief state attorneys have the right to access national classified data within their own section without certificates, so without carrying out a security check, but with a statement confirming their familiarity with the provisions of this law, etc. I agree, as some clubs have noted, that the mayors of the City of Zagreb, etc. should be included here. Of course, this information, those people who will be in that position, must in some way keep to themselves, which, in Croatia so far, will be extremely difficult, better said almost impossible. What does it actually do or does, what happens? There, we de facto bring some concepts into line with these European concepts. We're turning the state's secret into a very secret. Official secret very secret and military secret in secret official secret, etc., in a confidential, official secret confidential way that these markings already have limited etc. Everything else seems to me in some way normal in this law except that the law doesn't talk about declassifying such documents or not talking enough about that matter. For the first time on the other hand, I notice that a law like this that tangs the secrecy of data has not come across public criticism even though it is available to us already I don't know, for some time or at least on the government's pages we could get to it. This law is written for whom, though? It's written for officials and persons who touch that information. It's not written to the public. Okay, let's face it, Mr. Karamarko has put the leak of these secret documents, proves that Croatian time is changing, that the interest of our citizens is increasingly for some existential laws, for tax reform, but let's say those concerning these state military or not know what kind of secret. What's also good is that the government opened up to the public so-called. questionnaires to be completed by the verifiers. In these questionnaires, it is clear that these generals are also asked whether anyone cooperates with foreign services to write down their property, whether they are punished, to list among other members of the family, the household. And it's good to assume here that only with the consent of those persons who should be checked can they be checked. That's about it. And it's a good thing it is. That momentous affair between Mrs. Kosor on the one hand and not to mention the name of a former friend of hers who was checking whether, by order of the minister or on her own hand, the NGO was bearing fruit, and now we have one law or legal solution that has, in the right sense, been democratisationd. Now the question is whether or not the practice in Croatia will become democratic? That's what's left to see. Even so, our laws were often not controversial. As a rule, it was a practice. It is also new that security checks can only be carried out through the National Security Council, and they, meaning these checks or these checks can be partial, complete, and are carried out for persons who work easily in state bodies, i.e. for those persons who come in contact with these secret documents. What I think is that these checks in Croatia are too wide, that they cover too many people, I don't know why every single employee in this House has to go through such a check in the ministry. Why does a secretary at a club have to go through these checks, etc.? Although someone will tell me right away that they can receive some of those documents. But no matter what, the law is correct. What the next day's practice will be, remains to be seen. Clearly, when someone gets bit by a snake, they're afraid of a lizard, says a folk proverb. We had one painful experience until the '90s. More tragic than the '90s. until 2000. What was then done from today’s position is often comical. But those who are or are not important, we've been through this, and we know what that means. Many were actually afraid of their own shadows at the time. I guess there are other times today. That our citizens are normally not subject to any processing. Let's let one Maestro go, let's drop that drug, let's let go of that crime, etc. That's why these services are set up, why they exist, why they're being paid. Today, however, the problem is still that the country is being recut by various secret documents, counterfeits, fictions, half - truths, not from the official rooms but from various secret archives. And as the election approaches, so is their activity, silent, never-so-sad intelligence underground ever growing. And the real question is how could it have been that some guys put the entire archives somewhere safe? And the bigger question is why is this being tolerated today and why is this country not being accounted for? It's gonna be like he said, I think Pero, and it's interesting to follow that DVD we call "Zagorec's DVD" when he shows up today. Some really fell out there, suckers. Even the calling of Austrian authorities is not good, but I think Mesic was doing everything in good faith and wanted to achieve the most in Croatia's interest. Finally, this law is logical, and it may not be too useful for him and we know it. Any document or many documents will still be obtained sooner by journalists than by public authorities. I'm honestly surprised that a Maestro in secret could have operated for almost a year, a year and a half, almost a year and a half. It's almost incredible, and those who have done it and much, much longer I am truly interested in starting a trial, first of all in the part about Istria that begins 17.7. It will be extremely interesting to follow. However, one whole area that I believe should be regulated by this law does not touch it, which is the declassification of secret documents. In Article 14, the legislator speaks of this. It just seems to me that it's just not enough. It is known that some countries of their archives, that even here are literally said to change the degree of secrecy or in the declassification of data the data owner will report to all the bodies to which the data has been supplied and I think it is only there where this declaration is mentioned with this periodic assessment carried out for the degree of secrecy, it is very secret at least once every five years, for at least once every four years, for a confidential period of at least once every three years, for a limited period of at least one out of two years. I think this matter should be arranged in a different way. I said, some countries are known to open their archives in twenty-thirty, I don't know, fifty years. Whenever there's a piece of paper in The Hague, some document, some transcript and the like of us right now in this House, we jump on our feet like we did in these debates in front of the clubs a little while ago. We immediately ask ourselves how he got there as if the entire public didn't know that only through UNPROFOR in these areas knew that in one day there were seven, eight, ten, maybe eleven, twelve thousand which observers, which soldiers, etc. On the other hand, here in these areas, they've been running all kinds of secret services. It is enough to mention only this Slovenian "SOVA". Years from 90th to today, all Croatian governments, Croatian prime ministers, held a link. In particular, it seemed to me after 2004 and the arrival of Sanader regardless of his good ties with Mr. Jansa. It is good that the Slovenians have talked about it because now the Croatian authorities are likely to protect themselves. But it's not a good idea to know about some incident in Piran Bay. All in all, I think that this area that we're dealing with today should be regulated and should be regulated when this particular document can be used by the entire public. Colloquially speaking, when these archives are government, national, etc. I can open it, the rest would be acceptable. I quote Article 16 that this is a public interest. Here it is defined when there is a public interest the data owner is obliged to assess the proportionality between the right to access information and the protection of values prescribed in those articles. But I think that should be regulated in a more precise way. Who has the right to restrict this public interest? What is the public interest in this law? When are these situations or who in these situations can be found? And such situations must, in any case, be an exception. We see this law in line and it carries with these European needs of the EU, NATO, which I know and as such is generally not controversial. But I think a particular area should be dedicated or regulated by a special law to this declassification, let's call them, secret documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94059	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for the individual hearing for ten minutes. It is the turn of the HSLS club, the distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94060	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that the proposer of this law is actually in a very strange position. It almost solves... The circle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, a high degree of protection of the confidentiality of certain data should be allowed. On the other hand, this high degree should not in any way interfere with the right of citizens to access information, protection of privacy, freedom of the media and expression, and at all on public terms. And it's really not easy to solve at all, and obviously there's these certain collapsies that I think my colleague Cain is wrong about. The public was quite sensitized and certain, civil society associations warned and sent me and you and the HSLS club some particular remarks that we think should be highlighted. In the HSLS Club, we also believe that the area of protection of the confidentiality of data and the area of protection of personal data must not be seen in any way in isolation from the Law on the right to access information, since they prescribe exceptions to the right to access information and we also express serious concerns about the following sentences. The adoption of the final proposal for this law does not follow the amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information that would introduce an independent body to carry out a test of public interest and a test of proportionality. The possible test of public interest and the test of proportionality will be carried out by the same body which has also classified it, meaning that it has made it inaccessible to the public. With the agreement of the Office of the National Security Council, which, by its jurisdiction, is obliged to protect the confidentiality of data and, by its function, the appointment of officials does not fall under the category of independent bodies, yet I do not have sufficient assurance that access to information will be possible in the event of public interest. So, this particular one, what they warn about, and Croatian... society, etc. So that censorship can be introduced to a small door, that it can be an important blow to democracy, to the democracy of our society and to this transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all I'm actually saying is things that maybe even the promoter could do if they were some amendments and some of these remarks to be adopted. Also, the content of degrees of secrecy is still quite broadly prescribed in our opinion, which is why if something too wide is set up then it can enable abuse in a way that is secretly declared and information that should not be kept secret. That's why I'm saying it's kind of a fundamental thread of this law to treat secrecy as a rule while we at the club think that secrecy should be treated as an exception and not as a rule. Furthermore, there is still no single register containing data on each individual classified data. Therefore, the surveillance procedure is significantly difficult and its effectiveness is highly questionable. Furthermore, in our opinion, we believe that these deadlines of periodic assessment of the degree of secrecy are still too long. In our opinion, they should be shortened as much as possible. The text of the final draft law does not show whether the implementing rules, regulations, rules to be adopted under this law will be public or secret. I say, although we believe that the text of this law in relation to first reading is improved secrecy is still being treated I say, we said as a rule, and citizens will still have no access to a large number of information because there is no, because an independent body that would allow them in those cases where there is no public interest in publishing certain secrets. And we think that we should support those demands that have been asked by the Government to perhaps delay the entry into force of this law until the time of adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the right to access information which I say would introduce this independent body of the Commissioners of Information and which would conduct a test of public interest and test, a test... In that context, I think some basic recommendations should also be considered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we ask the Proposer to take anyway when he does, give the final word. And that is to draw closer to defining concepts relating to content and editing degrees of secrecy or classification of data. That secrecy is not required as an exception or as a rule. Thus, in our opinion, the documents should identify the parts containing classified data and treat the documents as public. Reduce the circle of the public authorities and the clearances which classify the information and which may require security checks to be carried out. Prescribe the criteria for determining the degree of secrecy in advance in a single regulation. Instead of prescribing the Regulation on scale adjustment criteria, it is given to all bodies. Prescribe a more frequent execution... an assessment of the purpose of granting a degree of secrecy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's at least once in, like, three years. Accurate liability for unauthorized persons who come into possession or receive information on the data subject to this law. It's actually something, it's that condition that we actually keep living to really become money, some secret service... The workers of those services who are really free to deal and who in some way create exactly one mess that some colleagues before me were talking about and at this very time, this time before the elections it becomes very, very obvious and this dynamic and denseness of these and such activities is increasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now they're also saying that bauk, that... that it is orbiting Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That it is located, that it does not know what, what, that the fact that it is there can indeed shake the state summit itself. And we saw for ourselves how when a particular action is launched very quickly and that goes in order for this swamp of ours about corruption to dry out. That, then, these concubines who do not care and try to prevent such activity in every way possible, are they really asking if the article is, or how to interpret Article 93, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? I think he should be interpreted the way the President himself did. Whether everything after that was very elegant was another thing, but Article 93 shows that the President of the Republic did not violate his constitutional powers. In our opinion at the Club, we believe that there should be a closer description of the modes of law enforcement by the National Security Council. Then prescribe the public publication of the implementing rules which will be adopted on the basis of the provisions of this Act as well as the public records of... insights and handling of classified data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Access to amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information i.e. to establish an Institute of Information Commissioner, a test of public interest and a test of proportionality... It's just these changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most articles of the bill also point to something we usually forget, which is the necessity of training employees, especially the head of all the bodies to which this law applies in order to reduce arbitraryness in law enforcement and misunderstandings and appeal procedures when applying this law and the Law on the right to access information. The training of employees is finally one of the recommendations in Council of Europe's recommendations adopted on 21 February 2002 by the Council of Ministers. I say we are just aware of these, I say these squares of the circle, these collegiations that are actually made between this, how to ensure something secret, and on the other hand not exactly, or to suspend democracy and the right of citizens to access information, protection of privacy, freedom of the media and expression, and even the right to a public word that also happens in this House to deny the right to a word. But we think it's, it's going to be, it's just no exception to the rules. We would support this law, but we would like to see from, the proposer to just some of our remarks and recommendations refer to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94061	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94062	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So the first thing I was saying was on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, and I'm going to do it again. So, compared to the first reading, this Final Proposal for a Privacy Policy has been improved, but we still hold that it has not been improved as we have suggested, so that one whole solution that will go on one side to protect what should have been determined as such with a certain type and degree of secrecy on the one hand, and we know that we have had enough of such problems in Croatia so far. If even a public declaration and a declaration had been made, something which, as such under the regulations of other countries, could not be declassified within such short periods. And it remains the fundamental problem, which is that under cover of secrecy, there may be some information that does not represent, which may even be a cover-up or a criminal offence or something else, that will determine a certain degree of secrecy. Unfortunately, the problem remains due to the fact that these criteria are not sufficiently defined. This means the criteria of Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9. This degree was done in a way that, introducing irreparable damage for a very secret, the concept of heavy damage for a secret, damaged the concept of confidential and damaged action in the performance of the task for a limited. But the law needs to lay down exactly the basic criteria for this, further elaborate it by the Government's regulation and after that by the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore necessary that the Office of the National Security Council also receive this supervisory inspection role so that it can enter and determine whether any information is as such, whether it is classified and not to be classified. And exactly in terms of protecting this principle of the public. Now that we're related to the principle of the public let's simulate the specific case that appeared to us, which is the case from the affair of President Mesic, Zagorec where the security adviser of the President of the State incognito went to negotiate with Zagorec in Austria and where this was done naively, amateurally and creamyly in the end that it was all recorded. To this day, and here you see it, it is obvious that the decision to refer Sasha Perkovic had to be a certain degree of secrecy because of the fact that the Security President's advisor is going without notice to another country. So it's supposed to be defined as that with a certain degree of secrecy, but to this day it's not. This is where the principle of public rule prevails over the principle of secrecy. I think that's the opinion of most Croatian citizens. No document was given either by the chief state attorney or by President Mesic to show in whose capacity Sasa Perkovic went to negotiate. Second. The answer was not given even though the lawyers of General Zagorec now say that Sasa Perkovic offered the removal of the warrant and other things that he could not have the authority of the president of the state, and it is doubtful whether he had the authority or not, whether the chief state attorney himself said that Sasa Perkovic had this thing to do with the warrant and that he could not have had his mandate. And what's about to be proved, let's say, and this part is about protecting the public principle. So it's not now, now it's about that. It doesn't matter if it's unauthorized, so to speak, it's unauthorized. So if Sasha had negotiated this which he had no right to negotiate, let's say on behalf of the President of the State that he was offering to abolish the warrant, or the status of penitents and other things. Now, it can't be hidden by the fact that it's unauthorized. Why? Because the principle of the public is stronger and it even points to that part if such a thing was done, then it is obvious that the president of the state is breaking the Constitution, breaking the law because it has nothing to do with it or it can have. And it is particularly difficult to say that he accuses Austria of protecting banks that robbed Croatia. This cannot be allowed to one president, and yet we from the Croatian Party of Rights Club when we asked specifically for a full statement, we did not speculate. We're the right party. We are speaking on the basis of facts, based on evidence that it is publicly stated in whose capacity it is that the President of the State or the President, or the Attorney General, went to Mr. Saša Perkovic. Then the president of the state insults my party, my president and us for getting involved. What kind of relationship is that in this part? Now I'd like the answer to that. Under this law, you see, if the president of the state won't take the secrecy off that document, then there can't be a document for which the public also has a greater interest, where the principle of the public prevails, because in this case it would be exactly what it would be to place a degree of secrecy to cover up certain situations. But according to Article 16, the owner, say, owns, say, the president of the state because he referred him to the document. If he won't take it off, he doesn't have to take it off. You can see that you have no answers to all the questions where the principle of the public is stronger than anything else if it's even a word, so you can speak to those but we don't argue until we get concrete, until these DVDs are finally shown that there is also a violation of the Constitution, given why the president is in charge. Surely, neither one of him is competent to offer someone an end to the warrant, to offer someone an end to, to gain the status of penitents and similar situations. Here you see, this law has no answer, and that's the principle of the public above all. Now let's move on to the other parts of what I was saying. That's the problem with the certificate. There is also a national certificate and there is a special certificate. This means persons who, only under these conditions, have a national certificate, can enter classified information that is such as those in the domain of national security, and a special certificate refers to being able to enter into data that we exchange as such under an international contract with either the NATO Alliance or the European Union. And there was this big mistake in negotiating itself that other countries that passed that part of the negotiations with both the European Union and the NATO Alliance made an exception, they made an exception. We have not even made it for the President of the State, the President of the Government, the President of the Parliament, nor for parliamentary representatives, nor for mayors, nor for persons who, in view of their electoral duties, means that, under the elections, they have no right to exercise their insight without being carried out, receive the first national certificate, and after that, a special certificate. This issue is now being introduced for MPs, but let's say, specifically, the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security without a specific certificate will still be unable to enter the data that are coming through the exchange, which is classified information related to the NATO Alliance or to the European Union. And also the one who did the law didn't simulate well. Let us only question what must be done according to the defense regulations. So, so-called. defense preparations holders. You didn't name them here again. For example, there are no mayors here who should not have this national certificate, or the mayors, or the heads of the administration, or as they are already called. public companies and now we will have a variant that may happen that some mayor, for example, has obligations in the field of defence, the development of a defence plan on some parts of a plan of protection and rescue that carries a certain degree of secrecy so as not to obtain a national certificate. What does that mean? So we're going to have, for example, a possible variant of having a mayor or mayor who, given what he's going to do, will determine that he can't get that certificate, and he's obliged to do it as such. So will we put the mayoral election before the election has to pass the security check, because it's the only way. No one can replace the mayor in these and similar affairs when it is his obligation under the law, when he is responsible under the law for the defence issue in that domain, the issue of national security does something concrete. And about this part, we also suggest that the government, meaning these things, is to consider and try to react to amendments because we are not going to get what we could get because we have been working on this law for a long time. It must be said that a significant shift has been made in the work of security services in Croatia, that there is a growing situation that secret data leaks. But we need to protect national security, and on the other hand, the principle of the public must be such in some cases where, like this case, what I was saying was the Mesic affair of Zagorec where it must be above the principle of secrecy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94063	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94064	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this final proposal of the Data Secrecy Act seems to really bring about those concerns and doubts that we, in opposition to our own from the SDP club, have pointed out already at the first reading. But they also warned and still warn many associations. Among them, the most active in this direction was Transparenci International. There is a real danger that we as a small country become a country for great secrets. It is not good, especially it is not good at a time when governments around the world are forced simply for both the public and the democratisation of societies to give an increasing number of information and an increasing number of data to people, or to their own citizens. In order to control that power at all, what is more important in a political pluralism, we are committed to those political ideas and parties that, therefore, offer something concretely. So people need to know first of all why they commit to something and when they commit to it, it's not the end of the story, so that's why they control it all the time. To give them trust or trust in others later in the next term. In this sense, our most important law and preventing the abuse of public authorities in this regard, although we have many institutions, many laws, but the preventive fundamental best law is exactly the Law on Access to Information. It is a fundamental anti-corruption law and a law that guarantees good governance. We also have other institutions and other laws, state's attorney's office, USKOK, Money Laundering Office, etc. However, they all appear later, and the fundamental role of the Law on the right to access information is precisely to prevent and prevent such situations, but also to act differently. So the openness of what we all like to say, transparency, is now an opportunity for us to develop this transparency, to clean up even more cloudy situations, and this final proposal of the Privacy Act seems to be almost completely disabling the law I say our basic law, anti-corruption law, the Law on the right to access information. In fact, the whole series of solutions that are exactly there in such a fundamental law seems to be just by application if we adopt this final proposal of the Data Secrecy Act, it will be called into question, that it will lead to further closure of the public authority towards citizens and will make it impossible for citizens to have one right to control and simply the right to access information. This public authority exists in the interests of citizens, and let us not forget that information and authority over information belongs to citizens, when the government at a certain point and a certain time only manages this information. And it is quite natural and clear that certain information for the security of the country, so that it will not be misused, etc. they must be subject to restricted access even to the level of secrecy. However, such solutions as are offered in this law pose a serious question. Namely, as already known, there are four types of secrecy, degrees of secrecy that are foreseen in the law: very secret, secret, confidential, and ultimately limited. Maybe it's just the most discriminatory thing to do as the most banignant. You see if, therefore, this bill is applied, this provision which defines what is limited and is essentially very unlimited in its application, could be applied practically to all data in the possession of the public authority and at all levels. It's about the data I quote, as the law says which data would be. Whose unauthorized detection could damage the functioning and performance of the tasks of state bodies, units of local self-government and legal persons with public authority. Practically here can indeed happen and we can thus declare any information secret and even any competition, any public competition for the needs of any city of any municipality, and that's not good. In addition to the National Security Council Office provided for in this law as a control mechanism, you are the only control mechanism provided for by this law, so that it discusses whether any information should have been classified, and if so, when and under what conditions will be declassified, or when it will be made publicly accessible. Therefore, there are no bodies that would carry out, or that would control data classification decisions, which would carry out a public test that would ultimately protect the public's interest and citizens' rights to access information. We should certainly commend this new term introduced in this law, which is this test to the public. However, the way it is conducted and how this test will be conducted makes it pointless. In fact, you can imagine one situation, perhaps not a comparison is certainly not adequate, but perhaps to the extreme to reveal to the end what it is. If you catch someone specifically in the theft, then there won't be a test of relevance for him to say I didn't do it. Some other bodies should, of course not here at the disabling application of the principle... but in any case, any other independent body should control it, not the one who did it and whose actions are suspected of being able to detect it. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, this problem could simply be solved either by introducing a control mechanism of another independent body in this law or by introducing what we specifically advocated in the SDP club, the public or the information commissioner. An absolutely identical solution has one Slovenia, so why do we need to run from it if we really have a public interest in it? Therefore, a test of public interest cannot be carried out by a body that is just suspected of being unlawfully classified by a document, i.e. it does not want to open it against the public's interest to the same public. Any regulation that regulates access to classified information in democratic countries is an exception. It's a necessary evil. With this law, I'm afraid it becomes a rule. Let us not do so that our fundamental law, which we so love to boast to the public, is really good, and has started to apply as much as possible and a growing number of bodies, so we see, however, in the annual report on the right to access information and, even though the public authorities do not always respond to a specific question, but still respond and this has been significant progress compared to that first year of its application. Let us not allow other laws to cover the good solutions of this law. From this we will suffer all the great and inconceivable damage together and there is still time to react in this sense, that such control must be carried out by an independent body. Well, it is impossible, once again, to point out, the situation set out in Article 16 that Stazic also warned about, saying on behalf of the SDP club. Therefore, when there is a public interest, the data owner is obliged to assess the proportionality between the right to access information and the protection of the value prescribed by these articles. Well, he can't decide that. So it's the same body that decides whether it's secret and decides if there's any objection to whether or not it's going to reveal it. So that's the system that's been in the judiciary for years, worth centuries, that we were proud to have knocked down the cadiya judge, the cadiya sued. So such solutions here are going through this Data Secrecy Act and then threatening to freeze completely the Information Access Act and bring us back a decade, which is certainly not good to meet in such a single darkness because then no light, nor Tesla could help there anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94065	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a 5-minute debate, the distinguished representative Kapraljevic. Correction of an incorrect quote, is it you? ... Correction of an incorrect allegation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94066	I would not insist that there is no point and justification to correct Mrs. Anticevic's incorrect allegations that she said the authority on the information belonged to the citizens to control the government. I think it still shows that it is a complete misunderstanding of the reasons why certain data are being declared secret and why there is at all a security system based on classified information and principles that say in English specifically and precisely, on which NATO and the European Union both insist on knowing, know only what you need to know. Contemporary Security System, the fight against terrorism, organised crime, etc. NATO standards, European Union standards show that you really don't understand the basics of things and that you misunderstood democracy without taking care of common security interests at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94067	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94068	The security of all citizens shows that sometimes and the time available is unfortunately misused.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94069	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94070	You injured your colleague's Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209, because if you listened a little more carefully, I elaborated further and made it quite clear that what you're talking about is no one's questionable, but it must be an exception, and this Law makes almost every piece of information a secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94071	Thank you. 5 minutes on behalf of the HNS club, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am in this very debate today, and I am also moved to say something about this Law and many others here in the House. The responsibility for Parliament's integrity is not equal with the ruling and the opposition. By ruling those who had the opportunity to make stupid bill proposals and the silly bill proposals that came from the government to say no. One of the few who said that, did and showed Mr. Florian Boras, who had taken down the urgency with several drafts of the law, who regularly gave amendments and who had removed the two laws from the agenda. If they had acted like this all the time in this term, then they wouldn't have listened to this story today that this was all already seen. To be honest, I didn't see it because this is my first term, and then we wouldn't be able to read the letter of those who are least on boards who aren't on boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94073	Dear Representative Kapraljevic, Final Proposal for the Privacy Act and on behalf of the club 5 minutes you have come forward. I'm warning you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94074	I'll be back on the subject. From the government so far, the Parliament has been ridiculed, now it has been terrorized, and we will likely receive and slap by the end of the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94075	In accordance with Article 210, I am giving you a warning and since you are done, I would take your word and you have no right to discuss this matter more, but the debate is closed. We're moving on to the next point. Finally on behalf of the government, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me after the debate on this important law, the final proposal of the Data Secrecy Act also refers to what was an unfortunate cause for the debate held in this House of Commons. It certainly does not occur to me to get involved in the content of this debate, but since the Government of the Republic of Croatia and myself in the role of State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and the Government's Authorised Proposer was called not to appear on the Committee for Information, Information and Media to establish, confirm and state and use the opportunity and to say that there was no intention of any Government, or authorised promoter on behalf of the Government... and this High House and willfully not come to this committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's really no reason for that, and I think so far we've shown it to all the committees. As President of the Parliament has said, the reasons are now difficult to determine. The truth is, and I apologize for not checking first, and then I said that, because I really didn’t get a call from myself, or a fellow assistant who was authorized to propose, unfortunately there was an oversight in the work of our services that sent it. The Minister was in the government, she was on her way, she probably didn't even see it, I didn't get it, but regardless of the reasons, it's polite to apologize for not coming and say that there was really no reason, no intention or need to do so. As far as the text of the Law itself is concerned, I am really glad that the efforts that the Government has made as a promoter have been recognized as a major consideration of all the objections and criticisms that have been sufficient on this bill's proposal and that, through the subsequent debate, and the debate that was conducted in this House of Commons, this text of the Law in the public interest and for our sake, makes us as good as possible. Dear Representative Cain said that this text of the law did not instigate so much public interest and probably some interested civil society associations that came in handy. On behalf of the Government, hope that this is because the law is now maximumly in line with all the demands of a democratic society for a good relationship between one side of the public's right to know, the rights of the public to be informed. And on the other hand, what this is now is actually the content of this law, which is that this law for the bodies of the state administration, for the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and the legal person with public authority determines those data which can be classified as classified information at any level of secrecy. And that's why this law is actually very limited, so it doesn't allow the spread of that circle, the data that can be determined by secrets. These are data from the authority, state authorities in the field of defence, security-intelligence systems, external affairs, public security, criminal proceedings and public finances, the economy but when it comes to the security interest of the Republic of Croatia. It's really hard to prescribe in detail. This law offers basic criteria, criteria as to how the degree of threat is threatened and then the degree of secrecy can be determined. On the other hand, there were comments of course welcome, and they came from respecting the objection to the text of the law in the first reading about which person, who may and should be excluded from issuing a certificate and for which the certificate should be kept. Here we are perhaps in a slightly two-value situation, of course for good reasons, that the reason for the safety and good control of those who have access to classified information therefore and by preventing possible abuses requires that the circle of persons who are to be excluded be as narrow as possible. So, to be just parliamentary deputies, the minister, the secretary of state of the central state office, he's the judge and the chief state's attorney. Also when we go from being interested in the public,... the public interest and the removal of the code of secrecy or the reduction of the level of classified information... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] it is always the Office of the National Security Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Its role and importance in this law may be too limited, because it is a body that has educated professionals who will work on further education in order to carry out an effective and effective supervision of classification procedures, data declassification, the way to access these data, the implementation of protection and access measures and, of course, the enforcement of obligations arising from laws and international contracts. I say this because, of course, we do not all share the same opinion, although some law is good he confirms his credibility in the way it applies in practice. I say this law defines and repeats, just stressing, is a law that will apply the bodies of the state, unit local, marking information that can be secreted by the criteria bounded by this law. But still connected... with the Law on the right to access information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let me just remind you of the results, some conclusions that actually came from the debate on a round table run a few months ago between the two readings, more related to the Law on the right to access information. All countries have different ways, and three are actually ways to ensure the control of the right to access information. These are the courts that Croatia now has, Commissioner or Commission or Personal Data Protection Agency, and I note that Croatia has this Personal Data Protection Agency. I'm an attorney general, and I'm a public defender, or I'm a... I'm a... I'm a... I'm a lawyer, and I'm a And now there's one question going on here, and I'm not going to bother you too much because of the weather, but one question that was to me by listening to the debate somehow, I felt the need to point out. The question is a little provocative. Does it matter who decides in the appeal process and what power he has? There's a yes and no answer offered. Why? He says pragmatic answer. So does he depend on what? About the mentality of people are they used to secrecy and do they have the courage to ask? The mentality of public government officials, the level of democracy, length and tradition play a role. And I mention that because of the joint effort of all of us citizens, education of officials, consistent control of possible abuses, we will answer and achieve a satisfactory answer to the question, whether access to information and in Croatian society is applied in this way in accordance with democratic principles, therefore in this way. And that's why I'm saying that we have in this system, our system already relatively large, a certain number of institutions that, in their term of office, have this control, I'm not going to repeat them now. But the law left the possibility if in some future, when we see whether, if not enough, it enables new institutions to be formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94077	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94078	Final proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee shall be adopted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 16 abstentions, 6 against the proposed Law in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94079	We move to the next - Final proposal of the Information Security Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 619 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Information and Information and Media. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? State Secretary Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94080	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law that somehow goes on logically to the law that we discussed online is the Information Security Act, or information security system, as was the title in the first reading. So the law on the confidentiality of data as we have now repeatedly said during this debate determines... data, a circle of data which may be classified and their classification and access to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Protection of such data in particular in the field of information... lays down the Information Security Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this is the final draft of the law and there has been a lot of objections in the first reading to improve this text of the law allow me to take this opportunity to take advantage of and just point out some of the differences that have arisen for accepting the remarks... in the first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of them, in line with the debates of the MPs, also referred to the vague terminology used by the law, and I am also an adequate name of the law, so that, from these observations, the text of the law has been amended and it is now called the Information Security Act, because we have come from the fact that it is better to make the law more understandable to the citizens themselves, and not to be in that technical clarity and in their sense they make it so clear. The comments also referred to the fact that things had moved and that this law could not provide for adoption, set some deadline for the adoption of the National Information Security Policy. And in the final text of the law, it has now given up this proposal so that it proposes the adoption of a specific National Information Security Policy already, some, two new chapters have been introduced into this text of the law. These are the measures and standards of information security and the area of information security which we also believe has contributed not only to the content of the wealth of this law, but has presented its additional clarity and development of the scope and content of the laws and concepts used in this law. Likewise, the observations were that the law and this remained in this final proposal for the law foresees the adoption of a relatively large number of sublaws. However, this is simply inevitable since this is a roof law that needs to be laid down the basic principles and criteria of information security and all bodies that implement it through their sublegal acts will prescribe a more detailed way of doing so. However, in order to allow the system to function within a somewhat shorter period of time, this proposal reduces certain deadlines so that, within a few months, in fact, six to seven months, the deadline provided for by the bill now stands at 18 months of 12 months in this final proposal. Therefore, all bodies which need to adopt sub-legislative acts relating to information security are obliged to adopt them no later than 12 months from the date of entry into force of this law. Furthermore, one of the comments was that it was not appropriate and was not in line with the principles of market business that information security should be entrusted in advance to specific legal persons owned by the State, companies established by the State, so that the final proposal of the law requires that the security of business cooperation, therefore information security matters can be carried out by legal persons, natural and legal persons who satisfy such conditions on the market. In addition, as regards only the concept of information security, where the observations made by some MPs were unacceptable that it was carried out through security services, observations were accepted and all information security authorities are now provided not only for employment but for the establishment, education of a special institute, advisers or a special place, an information security adviser who is responsible as the name speaks for the implementation and supervision of that information security in each of these bodies and will be expertly directed by the Office of the National Security Council as a central national information security authority. Also, what seems to me, what are more frequent remarks, so allow just one more little depression, and that is now to respect the comments of the Information, Information and Media Shortcuts Committee in particular... which is of foreign origin, although it has already been fully explained by its meaning in the very reason of the law, but of course it is not enough, so it is now described in the text itself as descriptively defined as a body for prevention and response to computer threats to the security of information systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how important it seems to us compared to the differences between the two readings of this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94081	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94082	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club considers that the Final Proposal for the Information Security Act in relation to first reading is corrected, improved and that it is now a legal framework that we can support as such, given that the Proposer is all of our... I put it into the final draft of the law but it's not all the way to the end. [[You can't hear it.]] So, first of all, what the public needs to know about information security is that these are five components of information security that are connected to each other and must act in accordance with each country, or all of these parts have to work in order to be able to talk about one complete information security. This is a matter of security checks, a matter of physical security, data security, security of the information system and the security of business cooperation. These are the meanings of these five areas that make up the information security of a particular country. In the first reading you did not cover all those parts and now it is good that you accepted our proposals so that two new chapters were incorporated where the issue of measures is regulated... information security and where the information system area is defined and regulated. [[You can't hear it.]] But there's only one other problem left. In order for the law as such to be ready for implementation, a number of sublegal rules must be adopted from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Regulations and other sublaws of both the Office of the National Security Council and the other national authorities to which the Information Security Act applies. In our first reading, we made this fundamental observation. According to the transitional and final provisions, the whole system would basically be regulated by the adoption of sublaws and the deadline was from eighteen months, not eighteen months, but from eighteen to twenty-four months. Now this period has been reduced to twelve months but the problem is that if the Government does not adopt a regulation within three months of the date of entry into force of the law and can automatically arrive at a chain delay in the adoption of sublegal rules which unfortunately in Croatia is a rule rather than an exception because we have a huge number of regulations and laws have been passed, it is four, five years old. If no sub-legislative regulations were adopted either from the authority of the Government, either from the authority of the Head of the Central Authorities of the State Administration or from other leaders who were authorised as statutory regulations. Namely, unless this law has legal force and can be applied until these sublaws are passed. This means that we will only have regulated all information security issues when all sublegal regulations are passed because the legal basis for implementation and implementation is then created because the first most important regulation is the regulation that the Government must adopt in Article 7 and concerns information security measures. But information security measures must be developed, so standards for implementing measures must be established and these standards are laid down by the rules of both the National Security Council Office and the central authorities of the state administration. Without all these questions, the old problem will again be with security checks, both physical security and data security. It is a good solution that every body that deals with and the law is subject to an information security adviser, and it is a good solution that an information security adviser is linked not only to the central body but is bound by the National Security Council Office, because most countries are both standards and NATO alliances and standards of the European Union have the Office of the National Security Council as a roof body that monitors and directs. It is therefore also relevant in the Government that this law could enter into force necessary for them to bring all these sublaws within 12 months because only after that will a legal framework be created for the conduct and implementation of all these forms of information security. If this is not brought forward further means there are various gaps and doubts for some of these areas such as data security, such as security checks, physical security and security of the information system itself because if we do not have everything regulated and if we do not have established rules of the game, there will be situations that are not welcome as such. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94083	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are with the Information Security Act. That's what it's called now after those interventions that were in the first reading and I'm glad it's changed and it's like this, because it's more understandable to all citizens. The fact is that a large number of objections and most of the comments from the debate were adopted and it is good and I am glad that it is and it gives some kind of framework that is acceptable and that could be supported. However, there is one question, and this is also a question raised by counterpart Kovacevic, which is a question of sublegal acts because we know how sublegal acts are brought. We know how many regulations on any law from the Road Safety Act to I don't know, the Health Protection Act that these laws are not enforceable for the simple reason that the rules are not passed on time or have not been passed at all. A large number of constitutional lawsuits are on account of this because I know that a gentleman who follows our work closely in Croatia, I think so far on our work for this one, has submitted more than 600 for this period of this term of office which constitutional interpretations of what constitutional lawsuits so we are not exactly unsupervised. There are people who follow Parliament's work, and the Constitutional Court will have a lot of work to do. And this period that has been reduced to 12 months is good but hopefully, I repeat that all these rules and regulations in any case, and a government regulation that should be adopted within 3 months that will be adopted and that these others will then be able to do as within 6 months, which, within 3 months, adopt and that this law could be revived and that both security checks and physical security and data security and the security of the information system and the security of business cooperation would be ensured in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94085	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We, like the Club, agree that the Final Proposal for a Law on Information Security, respecting a large part of the developments that were made in the first reading, among other things, and the Club of Representatives of the HSS, has experienced positive changes and can indeed be said to be a law that can perform the basic function that is set before it. Information security is certainly a guarantee of successful business whether public or private administrations. And it is unquestionable today in the world that with full certainty it can be said that the quality of the country's information system definitely affects, regulates, so we can say almost and controls the performance of the business either locally, either in the state, or in the private, or in the public sphere. And that's what actually this law is, and I have to say that this is a newspaper in Croatia, in the Croatian legal order makes it extremely important, extremely sensitive and, of course, it's good that we're all kind of equally satisfied when it comes to this final bill. Of course, what is common in lawmaking is indicated by this period of regulation in which a legal framework is to be laid down in some way and it is good that the Government has in some way decided to set deadlines in such a clear way when it comes to regulations and has also clearly specified at what time the entire regulatory framework will be adopted. We think it's also very, very important. The need to reach the level of information security is known in the world. Croatia has gone along this path and, of course, that the increase in the value of information in each business either in public or in private is constantly growing and the value of information is given to another character that has simply not been clearly highlighted enough or has not simply had a vision of this not only growing but also of the character of the value of this information. Second, as a natural matter, the need to address this as a matter of importance for the entire information system in accordance with legal and other normative obligations and norms as it is in some way regulated in the European Union or in developed countries that have set up what is very interesting is not only minimum obligations in terms of information security but also maximised certain obligations or minimum, minimum conditions, standards and criteria for information security. I am sure that in Croatia, too, further maximumisation of standards will be based on information security when it comes to citizens, when it comes to financial intermediaries like banks. I know that banks are very insensitive to raising the level of protection standards and that they are more willing to expose themselves to the risk that ATMs can come very easily and through your cards take money from banks or from you personally than invest in the level of protection of that information system and enter into the so-called system. smart cards, smart cards that just can't be manipulated like now in this, within this system. What is also very important to say in the context of the part where the applicant did not eventually accept certain opinions or suggestions that went in different directions. In particular, they were called upon to one extent of the lative legislation in the Member States of the European Union and in order to correct this proposal for a law. I'm not going to turn that saw upside down now and say that that's the reason to seriously think or open a subsequent debate about it. But I do remain with the view that with these amendments and the additions that have now come with what has been accepted, but with one let's call it a commitment that under the regulation that will take place by the regulation but also by the part that will be organised over the next 12 months. So this regulatory framework is also necessary to go in this direction to raise requests to those users such as bank financial representatives to raise information protection levels. Because you see, when today is about the Enron case in the United States, then absolutely one of the measures that the American government took was also an audit of the information protection system. In fact, it is evident that the case of this giant's immersion has been reportedly linked to insufficient audit and an insufficient system of information breakthrough. Because if it wasn't for that case, it would have been revealed sooner. So it would stop the definitive sinking of that huge energy system. Of course, Croatia has its own experiences, which can also be achieved if we want to learn from other people's experiences, and especially those worse, and Croatia has its experience in banks that have come to the collapse, collapse, and that there has been complete information protection, that there has been a warning system, that there has been this vertical and horizontal demonstration of the potential that all the countries that have developed the information system believe me this would have been revealed far before. So, the disease would be recognized in time, and then it could be with far less and less financial resources, far less encroachment experienced in the collapse of such large information economic potentials could be done. It is good in this law that just now the Office of the National Security Council is practically becoming the Central State Authority. This is also good in the context of the previous law we also discussed, and it is good to concentrate one such substance in one place. I also warned in the previous debate, that it was good to place the concentration, not the executive concentration itself, but also the concentration of control over the management of the system centralised. And I think that the Office of the National Security Council is very, very close to the nomenclature that the Member States of the European Union and NATO have, in that sense, also. and I think that these activities can be properly taught in these measures and ways that we have now assumed in this law that they can continue. There, in that sense, since this law has passed a long procedure. Since everything that one law has passed to really be both good and acceptable and applicable should be passed, and sometimes when it comes to speaking ill, it should be spoken badly. When you need to speak well, you need to speak well. It's good, there should always be reasons for that. That is why we at the HSS Club as regards the final proposal of the Information Security Act with these small above all notes to the Government to take care of those measures concerning the regulation and those measures that should follow in terms of realisation, to really be respected and to comply with all these standards with the needs of both the Croatian public and private life and the economy, and thus we think that we will get one good law and the HSS Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94087	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94088	Final proposal for a law on information security. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee shall be adopted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 94 votes for, 5 abstentions, 3 against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94089	We move on to the next one, and I suggest we bring together the debate on - the final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Pension Auguration, P.Z. No. 745 - Final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 744 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94090	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I welcome you. In front of us are the proposals of two laws that greatly improve the living standard of category so-called. New pensioners. One proposal is the Proposal to amend and supplement the existing Pension Insurance Act, and the second is the Proposal for a Law on an add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. Let me first and foremost look at the changes and complement the existing Pension Insurance Act and note that we are actually proposing three of the most important, major changes. The first change relates to the category so-called. early retirement. According to the current legal solution, anyone who retires before the age of that age is permanently reduced by certain coefficients for each month of early retirement. So it's shrinking not only until the time this pensioner gets to age, but it's permanently shrinking for the whole time he's taking a pension, or I'd say that for the rest of his life. The reduction coefficient is 0.34% each month of the previous decrease, and if we talk about early retirement, five years before the age of five means that maximum permanent reduction may be 20.4%. In the discussions, we have found that such a permanent reduction, such a high permanent reduction is actually unacceptable and therefore we have decided to propose in these amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act that the coefficient of permanent reduction can be reduced to 0.15% for each month of early retirement, and that the resulting permanent reduction may be up to 9%. So the permanent reduction institute remains but the coefficient from 0.34 decreases to 0.15 and the maximum permanent reduction from 20.4% decreases to only 9%. The second very important amendment and addition of the existing Pension Insurance Act refers therefore to the rights of persons with disabilities pensions due to the reduced working capacity of the beneficiaries to whom the pension is paid during employment. So all those who are beneficiaries of disability pensions and are employed, we change the factors for calculating their pension, which will increase the average pension of those who are in disability pension and are employed or are therefore craftsmen by about 48%. The third most important amendment and addition of the existing Pension Insurance Act is the addition, i.e. the amendment and addition, which determines the level of the minimum pension for all those who have more than 30 years of training. Under the current Pension Insurance Act, the lowest pension is determined by the gross, average gross pay of a mass of 0,825 for one more mention, all the lowest pensions with an internship of up to 30 years. For the lowest pensions for those who have more than 30 years of internships for each year above 30, the coefficient is halveable and the coefficient of 0.412 and 25 applies. We therefore propose the use of the 0,825 coefficient for all years is based on which the level of minimum pensions will significantly increase in the Republic of Croatia. For all three of these changes, amendments and additions to the existing Pension Insurance Act, it is necessary to provide a little less than 200 million kuna in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for next year. It is certain that this will have great positive echoes among the retirement population, above all among the so-called population. new pensioners, but it is also certain that even more positive will be accepted by the Retirement Act. So respecting the fact that one of the negative consequences of the 98 pension reform is the fact that the average pension of new pensioners lags behind the average retirement pension of old pensioners somewhere at the level of 539 kuna, 540 kuna, we tried to find a solution that would increase the pensions of new pensioners. But first of all, we were focused on trying to reduce the differences in pensions of those within the category of new pensioners, depending on which year they were retired. We are therefore proposing to the Proposal for a law on a pension allowance, so the payment of a special pension allowance that would be determined as a percentage depending on which year someone is retired. For example, we propose to pay an allowance to a 4% pension on an existing pension for all those retired in 1999. 8.4% pension allowance for those retired in 2000. 12.6% for those who retired in 2001 and such analogy up to 27% increase, or 27% pension allowance for all those who retired, who will be retired, I apologize, 2010 or later. In this way we will definitely improve the material status and social security of users of new pensions. I would like to point out that in the 2008 budget, therefore, it is necessary to provide for the payment of this add-on to 826 million kuna and 957 million kuna in 2009. A few words on how to establish the basis and who has the right to add to the pension. The basis for determining the pension allowance under this law is, of course, the amount of the monthly pension determined and adjusted each year to the new current value of the pension under Article 86. Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, the pension calculated under the existing law on that basis shall be paid in a percentage allowance. As pension coordination continues to be carried out in an existing formula and pensions will be increased every six months thanks to the harmonisation formula, the addition to this pension will subsequently increase. Now, the basis for determining the pension allowance to all pensioners who make pensions through the application of international social insurance contracts is, of course, their pension, their all-round part of the pension paid through the Croatian pension system. As for the basis for family pensioners, the issue was already very much related to it this morning, I would like to point out the following. So if he's a spouse, for example. A family pension, i.e. the retirement of his deceased spouse, is determined as a percentage depending on the year in which the retired spouse whose current user has taken over. I think it's very important to note, because right next to this category there was a lot of questions yesterday, and already today. What I particularly want to point out is that with the fact that we increase averages, to increase them we apologize to the lowest pensions for those who have more than 30 years of training. I also want to say that this supplement will be paid for users of the lowest pensions according to the following criteria. Therefore, once again the basis for the add-on is the pension calculated under the existing Pension Insurance Act. That's what the supplement is all about. If a pension belonging to that user with an add-on exceeds the minimum pension level, that difference above the minimum pension will be paid to the lowest pension user. If, however, the person’s minimum pensions calculated under the existing law are increased for this supplement still below the minimum pension that will now be significantly increased by amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, he will belong to the lowest guaranteed pension. I would like to point out once again that we are protecting the standard of living and promoting the standard of living of our citizens, especially the users of the so-called categories. New pensioners. Now what does that mean for specific cases? What does that mean for pensioners, so-called New pensioners? Without wanting to read all the figures in this table, allow me to read only some of the figures that will bring our citizens and pensioners closer to them and allow them to calculate and can assess what is waiting for them with this add-on. Someone who's an example. Retired or will be retired in this year and its average pension amounts to 1,000 kuna, with this add-on will receive 376, 7 kuna. So his pension will jump from a thousand and 500 kuna to a thousand 874 kuna. Someone who is retired or will be retired in this year and his pension under the current law is 2 thousand kuna, will receive an add-on of 499 kuna. Someone whose pension under the current law is 3 thousand kuna, retired in this year, will receive an allowance of 748 kuna and his pension will amount to 3 thousand 748 kuna. The amendments and additions of these two laws to the pension system provide over a billion and 50 million kuna of additional funding for the pension system in 2008. The average retirement pension of new pensioners is significantly increasing; it has a significant impact on the standard of living and on the status of a very important and respectable group of our citizens, our pensioners, and therefore I ask you to support these two laws, and for any additional questions and suggestions, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94091	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94092	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. On many occasions, people in Istria asked me why I'm ordering you wait, don't retire. Well, it's precisely because I knew the law would be passed in harmony with the old and new pensioners, so I could call it Colloquially. Unfortunately, however, this law is clearly better than nothing, but this problem is coordinated by gentlemen only half. Only some other government pensions will bring them in full, the IDS guarantees it. It's very simple. If we worked or worked a little harder elsewhere, if others worked a little harder to get into the budget, then pensions could be 75% of the average salary, and the basis of the last 10 years that are generally the most favourable people. Why do I say that pensions only line up to half? I'm to be honest, I expect this harmonisation to be 100%. This law, as the Deputy Prime Minister said in 2008, weighs everything or even 826 million kuna, 2009. Ninety-seven million kunas, and this one, in 2007, all or even 127 million kunas. I'm saying we're missing it in 2008. 520 million kunas to equalize new pensioners with an average of so-called. old pensioners. At least that much money. But let us now take an example in contrast to the examples mentioned by the Deputy Prime Minister. If you retired in 2006, if your pension was in 2290 today, you'd by any chance left in '98. Retired you would have a pension of 3 thousand 553 kuna. You're behind today, a thousand and 263 kuna. Increase 23.8%. How much do you get? You get 455 kuna. In this case, you're still 808 kuna behind. That's why I'm saying this is not the Law on the Equality of New and Old Retired, but the Facilitation of an Injustice. That injustice here will only take one day to correct. I say it's 100% possible if we just want to. Okay. Come on, so far there's little party games. Someone's gonna tell the deal the house is building. According to the people, the law de facto accepts the HSU proposal recently published in the morning where it was proposed to provide 2.2 billion kuna in the period from 2007 to 2009. It's a 2007 circus of this law. 127 million kuna, 2008. 826 million kuna, 2009. Nine hundred and fifty-seven million kunas, but for 100% harmonisation, we're short of that kind of money. Why didn't the government find that money, and tomorrow we're going to adopt a budget rebalance of five billion kuna. I say there was still room in this year for 60 million kunas with these 60 million kunas as the government proposes with its amendment. Otherwise, the average pension is March 2007 899.87 kuna, 364 thousand pensioners per new pension will have a thousand 781 kuna. There are no gentlemen 118 kuna and 87 limes or 520 million kuna at the annual level. I repeat, I don't understand why the government didn't go to one full equalization? Well, it's finally the election. The question is, will HDZ, after these elections, secure that money? But I'm saying it was good, we'll see, but I'm saying it was and there's room for full harmonisation. True, I'm not running away, something with pensions has been done in this term. Not a bit. Basically, those 100 kunas went in plus 6%. He's going to get his pension back. Unfortunately, it's only up to 50% here. Not entirely. Yesterday we discussed pensions for asbestos patients. There's a Christmas Eve. Now goes this attempt to equalize under the quotes of new and old pensioners. $12 million for disability pensions. Penals are reduced for early retirement from 20.4% to 9%. But the budget of the gentlemen in 2007 is at least 28 billion kuna higher than that of 2004. It was the first year HDZ took over the helm after defeating 2000. In 2003, the budget was €84 billion, 2004. 80.6 billion, 2005. 85.4 billion, 2006. 95.2 billion kuna, 2007. 108 billion kuna. I agree that this law that we're discussing today is not a game. This is one more time I'm going to say conformity by half. It's better than nothing. In 2006, 51,000 156 workers with an average pension of about 308 kuna and 25 limes were retired. Otherwise receiving those from before 1.1.99. is 2 thousand 92 kuna and 71 lime. That's the difference the vice-president of the 539 kuna government spoke of. 539 kuna times 364 no, that's 192 million kuna a month times 12, 2.3 billion kuna. We're providing for 2008. 800 million kuna. We have a whole series of problems in this country. There's only 1.39 workers coming to us on one pensioner. That's the real problem. Since '90. the years when we had almost 2 million employees or better said insurance companies today we have them in Croatia somewhere around a million and 500 thousand, meaning 500 thousand less. In 2007, Istria alone has more jobs in Croatia than in the '90s. And less unemployed than the '90s. The case may be about that in Zagreb. There's something else everywhere. Everyone will also agree that the best social policy, full-time employment policy, is certainly and best then pension policy. Another problem is you see, gentlemen, when the average pension will reach if not 75% of the average salary, at least 70% of what would have to become the ideal of a social community that has those provisions embedded in its Constitution and that one country in which you should start from the principle that you will first have a fair salary and the next day, because we will all grow old and a fair pension. The average salary in the country is now slightly lower than last month is around 4000 600 kuna. The average pension should be about three and a half thousand kunas, not below or about 2,000 kuna. True, with a full-time job, the average pension is not 34% of today's income for these new pensioners or under the new law will be 37.61% of the average salary, but is around 60%. But that means clearly that you work 40%, women 35% under the new law. The question is, will any of them serve their lifetime? But we all know how many are in this country that have gone into full retirement. Unfortunately, the new pension system does not provide anyone with that 60% average salary. There's a problem. Otherwise, in Austria, the full pension is 80% of the average salary, Belgium 67, in one Czech Republic 79, in France 80, Italy 89%, in Hungary as much as 102%, Luxembourg 98%, Sweden 71%, etc. In 1990, Croatia had a million 968 thousand 737 insurance companies and 655 thousand 788 pensioners. In 2005, we have a million 498 thousand 877 insurance companies. We're here about a million and a half now. And a million 80,000 571 pensioners. So in those 17 or 16 years, we have 480 thousand less insurance or workers and plus 425 thousand pensioners. It's a serious problem that needs to be taken as seriously as it is. So the goal must be how to make money because the distribution of that money is clearly relatively easy. And it should finally be admitted to something and to those areas that perhaps most per capita invests in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the question is how much is this one returning to them. I'm going to say this one more time in half to solve the problem. Vote for IDS, we'll solve this problem 100%. So that's a little bit more work elsewhere, more contributions to the budget, then we'd be in this country and far more honest pensions. We were hoping that by the end of the term of office, the average pension would reach 50% of the average salary. But here, the average pension there sometime after this harmonisation will be 43.08% but so on. New pensioners only 37.61%. That's about five, I don't know points less than old pensioners, on those average pensions. What are the other problems for Croatia to get out of poverty with a pension that for a full-time internship will one day reach, say, the 70, 75% salary? To make pensions clear from Serbia, BiH, Montenegro takes over the Croatian pension system. That's where you work. That disabled people of Homeland and World War II are treated the same way. To get rid of the systematic suspension, I'd say those loyal citizens, former officers with a wave of pensioners before the '90s. A year. Family pensions we heard, this problem is being solved and pensions grow by growth dynamics at least gross social product. It needs to be done clearly. Equally, employers should be recognised for untaxable expenditure if they are willing to pay the worker health or life insurance because they would, for example, be written off to them, and workers would one day increase their pensions significantly. Perhaps one such legal proposal will come before the MPs before this Parliament's release. This law is once again not ideal, it is partly good I said because the problem solves in half, only some future government will solve this problem entirely and until then there is no other one but support it because people have to get an average of 270 kuna more than they have now. There, with those words we will uphold the law. But I stress, the problem is that this problem is solved by half and we can't be held back or too critical because it's usually about 15% to 20% on the current amount of pension, in some cases it's a little bit more. All in all, I think that the real problem of these new pensioners will solve future policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94093	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94094	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Cain says is a new government, and IDS assures you, it will fully harmonize pensions. If he was referring to a new government in the coalition announcing IDS with the SDP, we've already seen that movie. We know that this government didn't lift a finger for the pensioners. Let me take the wrong call, I apologize if my colleague Cain was referring to the new HDZ government of Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94095	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94096	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Cain, you've said several times that this harmonisation will solve half the problem. I think it will not solve half the problem but much less because this law does not mention what Vice President Polancec pointed out. New pensioners receive 500 kuna less pensions on average every month. So every year they received 6 thousand kunas less or 4 years, even 30 thousand kunas received less. Their problem isn't solved. The HSS offered a solution a year ago to compensate those people who for years because of the bad laws we don't want to change have received fewer pensions. We're not gonna solve their problem. So from tomorrow they're going to get a supplement but what they got over five years 20 or 30 thousand kuna less, we're not going to solve it by this law. So we don't solve half the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94097	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94098	Thank you. I'd also try to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague Pacek tried to correct. So, it's not a problem, it's not a problem, it's only a half. I argue, for the sake of the public it should be said that he has been resolved much more than that, that he has almost equalised himself with Slovenia, which gives 18 years and therefore we are doing a great step forward that in the future we can pass a law that can reach the ten best years which was the dream not only of the Government when we are talking about your government and when you come to power. You claim to be equal. Well, you've shown the Labour Act how you feel about working class. By cutting your rights, you have reduced workers to slaves, made of these tycoons in slave centers, not to list everything you did when you were in power and surely... Because he didn't even admit those pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94099	Do not debate under the institute of correcting an incorrect quote. And I'm giving you a warning. ... Which is a violation of the rules of procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94100	Article 209th, Mr President. Mr. Rabbit, that's all. The IDS voted against the Labour Act and was already outside the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94101	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94102	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Terza, colleagues and colleagues. If we continue in this atmosphere then I can guarantee right now that this debate will pass at an intolerable level of ignorance of the functioning of the system and at an intolerable level of irresponsibility for the spoken word. The debate here started with my colleague, who I normally highly appreciate, by interpreting statistics, by the principle of bikinis, to discover what's interesting but to hide what's important. The fact is that these bill proposals in the pension system, therefore, are not the realized wishes and needs of Croatian pensioners, and nobody here has said and cannot say. However, more justice is introduced into the pension system, i.e. the dimension of more social justice. In that regard, the pension system returns to its original postulates that the amount of pension depends on the total contributions paid over the years and that is important to draw. And this is an important step out of the socialization of the pension system. So he got the dimension of justice and the dimension of more social justice. We won't be ungrateful. We respect all the parties that are working and who are trying to solve the problems of the pensioners and who in this high house presented their models of solving this problem. We also studied the model of the Croatian party of pensioners formed in two laws, we also studied the model of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia in the form of one bill of law. For us they were an inspiration, for us they were the subject of the most critical analysis and we based on these proposals and our knowledge made a model that we presented to the Croatian government as an inventory of damage which was done by pension reform to new pensioners. So, they certainly through their discussions here have contributed to our model that we presented to the government being more quality, and ultimately that these bill proposals that are today in the process are better at solving this problem. I'll tell my colleague on one example because his fellow citizen wrote to me who claims we've solved half the problem. This is possible on the basis of statistical averages. However, when we go down to an individual level, the problem is slightly different or the results are slightly different. Your fellow citizen lost a month due to a pension payment by law compared to her ten best years of 802 kuna. By applying this law, it will continue to be damaged by 207 kuna. That's a big difference. It's not half a solution, it's a good approach to a 10-year period. We here from the Croatian Retirement Party will certainly not say that these bills are equalising old and new pensioners. These bill proposals are an increase in the rights of new pensioners and an equalisation of the rights of them among themselves. We cannot ignore the fact that in 2001, the coalition government increased pensions of old pensioners from 0.5% to 20% and that in 2004 we increased pensions of old pensioners by adding 100 kuna and 6%. We have not agreed on any parliamentary party to which we will coordinate. Whether we're going to coordinate to the level of pensions earned by payment of contributions or we're going to coordinate to the levels of pensions that were later incurred, which they later raised. We therefore did not dare to talk about the equalization of old and new pensioners. We here today in this model are processing an increase in rights and equality. So the fluctuation between the new pensioners and that was reduced to the border plus minus 2% among them by years of retirement. What's important is to say in our calculations we had the next situation. Someone, a 40-year-old man who had to retire 5 years earlier, could, or under the current law, achieve a thousand kunas of the lowest pensions by 20.4% for, therefore, its amount comes to a thousand 370 kuna. With these solutions, the person who now has a thousand 370 kunas in terms that I spoke with 40 years of internship and 5 years of early retirement will receive a thousand 820 kuna. These are the facts that contribute to this model. You can calculate them, we can compete with everyone here in the pension calculation. I accept the challenge, but what I'm saying is true. You know my distinguished colleague Vidovic, former minister, held a press conference today on the subject of the pre-election trade agreement between HSU and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Nice. Gordo sounds like it. The Croatian party of pensioners will sit with anyone in this Parliament who has the will and desire to solve these problems that we have identified as burning problems and it does not matter when, or whether we are sooner or later. When conditions are created, one problem is decided. I would ask him who Mr. Vidovic concluded a trade agreement with in 2002. With the IMF? Maybe with the devil when the lowest pension has been reduced by 12 and a half percent and when additional penalty provisions have been introduced for the lowest pension. So the coefficient was 0.30% monthly increased to 0.34%. It didn't happen once, it happened in December 2002. So much for fair play in this House. I speak emotionally, but I think I have reason to say it. So we are from our negotiating requirements, from the model of the Croatian party of pensioners that was set in 9 points. This model realizes four and a half points, which means we got a pension supplement that eases differences, solved the question of the lowest pensions that we asked for. The question of motivation of disabled workers has been resolved as they work within the remaining working capacity to remain in the world of work and to be useful members of the community, to feel good in the community, to feel worthy and we have settled in a satisfactory way at this time the question of pensioning due to going to early retirement. You can't look at one of these elements at a time, but this is one set. It's a good thing the debate is in the package, because it's tied together. Therefore, the addition, i.e. the effects I was talking about with regard to minimum pensions and early and the effects of the supplement, intertwined. Those aren't separate stories. We have not come to our demands for 10 best years, but we are much closer to talking in the Croatian Parliament tomorrow about the equalisation of all new pensioners at 15 or 18 years as it is in Slovenia. We're definitely making assumptions now that someone who's going to retire today, and they still want to work, they don't have to freeze their pension and go back to that pension of theirs, which someone did, for example. In 2001, he fears a new bill will give him a smaller pension. So we're going out with these solutions from that zone and we're making assumptions that every month the internship is valorized for a future pension, so it contributes to an increase in pension. It's not exactly an exact law covered by what I'm saying, but we're very close to that situation in the next step it's possible to do it. It is possible to make another fairness in the pension system that not one day, not one month, not one year of paid contribution will be left without contributing to my pension. We now have one part of the people who work, pay contributions either through the contract of work, whether through the contract of work and are essentially sponsors of the pension system, and they have no use of it because if they ask for a new pension, their pension would be less. This creates assumptions that they are entitled to larger pensions. So we're not going to sing this to anyone, but behind this is work and work and study of the system. These are not ad hoc solutions, these are solutions that are long-term sustainable, these are solutions that contribute in the long term to improving the social and material status of pensioners and their families, therefore this is sufficient reason to support, i.e. everyone in this House supports this quality step in pension legislation. And what else is to be said because it brings, confuses, or in some way confuses the supplement? We could still insist that it enters the base. By investing the supplement in the basics, we have derivated the postulates of the current pension system or we are entering a pension reform, but it has therefore agreed that this supplement in the percentage amount is, of course, automatically followed by any increase or any harmonisation of pension. That's twice a year. And it automatically increases in its, in its absolute amount because it is applied as a percentage to an increased, on an increased basis. Therefore, it should be said that it is an acceptable solution. Surely it would not be an acceptable solution as we had until 2004 through the 100 kuna supplement and 6% that was constantly confused at one level. And I'm sure we from the Croatian Retirement Party wouldn't have been, we wouldn't have agreed. So what is to conclude with this Proposal 2 law is to create all assumptions for further improvement of the pension system. All assumptions and for a better understanding of the pension system. Because I'd be begging my colleague Cain if we could go out for a beer and talk a little bit about the structure of the lowest pensions. It should be said that there are more than 60,000 agricultural pensions and proportionate pensions with contributions not even close to what people receive. Which means if we were to observe only a segment of agricultural pensions then we'd be tempted to, that we had to sort of equate the agricultural pensions of old pensioners with new ones because they're new ones in a much more favourable position. So to understand the system, we have to go in, we have to go into a deep analysis of all segments of that system, and with understanding to approach it, and that's the only prerequisite that we plan where our system is going and the only prevention that we don't make future mistakes. Of course, the Croatian Party of Retirement will support the adoption of this law with all its capacities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94103	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of the Sabbath. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94104	All right, all right. It's all right. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I guess it was just a mistake when my colleague Hrelja said that they had studied the proposal, said H... /The speaker has been disabled./... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] [[HSS, excuse me, I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94105	And the correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94106	Here's to incorrect allegations, so Hrelja's colleague used what he had in mind for others, so he used "bikini" statistics but about it a little later. It is incorrect, it is incorrect that this is not an ad hoc but a long-term solution. This is an ad hoc solution. This solution is not a solution. It's an incorrect formulation. And it is even more incorrect to say that it is a just solution. Justice is based on the fact that this is closer to the pension base system. The contribution pays the pension. And you forget that this is a tax supplement, the budget and the tax is paid by everyone and that poor peasant you're talking about like this is going to be completely out of that damage and the poorest pensioners. And they pay VAT taxes every day and they have the right to some of that. So not only is that not just fair, but it is a deeply unfair solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94107	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94108	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament says Mr. Hrelja that statistics are like women in bikinis. ......... Yeah, well, I wanted to add here you see important and you don't see the most important. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't say this law didn't solve anything but solve the problem half way. Thus, our satisfaction can be at least half of it. Because the average pension after these adjustments will reach 43.08% of the average salary. The new pensioners here today are 37.61%, so the difference is 5.27%. It's better than nothing. But the gentlemen lack a good 520 million kuna or more. The average pension of new pensioners is 1552.94 kuna. The old ones I was talking about in 1899,87. New pensioners with this intervention will reach 1781 kuna. So it's missing. 118,87 kuna [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for that average. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And to some, a lot more. And just one more sentence The IDS was against choosing the Labour Act together... [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94109	The word has, I thank you, the word has a esteemed representative of the Sabbath. The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, of course, to discuss in 15 to 2 this important legal solution is not quite appropriate. If we're gonna listen from the bench, then we won't be able to argue here. It's not like that next door. I certainly should, my personal and, on behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to say a review. Get this proposal on the bench this morning and who is getting ready seriously to calculate and that can come up with quality suggestions, to praise or criticise such a solution. Of course you've been talking about it for years. But every new solution is a separate case. Well, that's how it should've been if nothing else had happened tomorrow at least put this into debate. If only we could be better prepared and better prepared. So the first and most serious observation is one of the unserious problems of Croatian pensioners. Another thing that I find attractive and should be stressed is the fact that it is very easy to compare here today the proposals that have already been in the procedure and rejected. 1.6 last year, the HSS gave two parliamentary drafts of the law that were smoothly rejected. Would you like me to read to you, Mr. Vice President, what did the government say then? The government gave a negative opinion and very easily and very quickly it can be read. Here, the proposed increase in pensions is based on the proposal that pensions of new pensioners are lower than pensions of old pensioners. A year ago, it was either my personal or HSS perception, or there's no such thing as a problem. We don't want to discuss it in 2006 because it's not time yet, it's not pre-election time. It's the right of the parliamentary majority to, of course, determine the timing and I don't blame it. But, yeah, Ivo, I'm not mad. I'm just telling the facts that stand. I'm angry that it wasn't last year that the pensioners had been able to get bigger pensions for a year. Of course it's this interesting. I'm angry that you refused so smoothly instead of saying it might not be the best solution at all. We're all going along with other problems, so that's it. Of course it's about money among other things, not just money. The money turned out to be there, and it could have been easy to move. The problem is that someone else suggested it as a possible solution instead of a ruling coalition. That's the main problem. It's good, Ivo. The proposed percentages of pension increases are set on a flat-rate basis. If my proposal is compared now, the HSS proposal does not make any difference. Try to compare even articles a little bit. A good part, and this is what the Hrelja used to say, is that something positive has also been taken over in their proposal, and it is useful. I am grateful that you have taken some solutions, but it certainly does not satisfy me that you did not at least mention agricultural pensions. A fellow representative of the Hrelja just spoke about it. That's what's really hitting us. I think that agricultural pensions or around even a little bit more agricultural pensioners who receive very low pensions should have, if not otherwise, at least in the same set to solve differently. The HSS has solutions for that, and you know it very well. It's been rejected twice already. And it's good! So that I don't turn out to be critical, there are certain solutions here that are acceptable to us because I say part of it is either taken over from us or at least as an idea, even though they don't exist and certainly we're willing to publicly praise it and it's good to do so. Because at the end of the pensioners, believe me, I don't care what we're saying here, who we're talking about before, who we're talking about later. It's important to them that they get it. But if we all sat down together and agreed within the working group, they could have had a solution a year ago, and it doesn't matter who you are... The ruling coalition for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's important that a year ago or it would have been more important if the pensioners had gotten bigger pensions a year ago. There is certainly one thing that we have proposed in our solution that has not been quite accepted or accepted, nor appreciated by any political party, which is the difference that has been achieved since the moment he began to receive less pensions, the new pensioner. For example, in 2000, to this day. He's been taking fewer pensions for seven years. And no one's gonna pay off that difference alive, and we've admitted that there's been an apparent mistake with these new pensioners. And now, regardless of these percentages, there's a representative of the Hrelja rightly, they haven't even been found to be the difference between the new pensioners, they're not the most accurate, there's still differences, let alone the old ones. I agree, Vice President, that you've managed to even something a little bit, and that's a positive. I'll point that out everywhere. It's a good thing they got, but we should at least double the funds for balancing or equating as we said. Of course I can't, I know. But we have five billion now in excess, and we're saying we don't have any money. So he's got money. I say there's money. That means even though I'm being honest, and I didn't get it right now when MP Hrelja was talking about the name supplement he kept mentioning to me. It means that you've probably been harmonising this bill with HDZ and that in some way your joint contribution to all this. Yeah, okay. I assume you thought it was still how acceptable a solution for the pensioners and that you agreed to it. So what Mr. Polancec was saying about amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act through these three points has no reason to attack it critically. I think it's useful, although we should discuss these early retirements a little more seriously. I think that after 65 years and 60 years, they should be given a full pension, not a permanent reduction. But well, that's the government's proposal, and we have a different attitude. We support this proposal for the lowest pension, for disabled pensioners. I think that's quite right. What will eventually turn out to be seen whether the pensioners will be satisfied or not. I'm just repeating that it was supposed to come up with a proposal like this before the election. I don't think there's going to be any difference corrected by this bill, she'll be relieved. I repeat, I think that there should be double the amount of funding for that, and certainly it should be considered what is wrong with pensioners who, who could not exercise their right to another pension post. We think that they should have kept their acquired rights and that they should have taken those 10 most favourable consecutive years. At the end of the day, we will explain our draft laws in certain stands. What's good is we're going to commend, but the criticism is first, that it came on the bench today. We couldn't even get ready seriously, even though we're discussing it and we know more or less what it's about. Second, there was no full equalization. Thirdly, I don't think that a retroactive difference will be paid for those pensioners who have been receiving a pension for seven, eight years, and around this early retirement, I think that perhaps the government should go along with its amendment to accept, to abolish this reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94111	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94112	Dear fellow Sabati, I'd like to correct a quote. It's not true that the new pensioners got a little closer and evened out a little bit. At the level of the average, they are almost fully equaled, at the level of personal rights because the different payment rights on a personal level have not been evened out yet. On a personal level, one who's had equal wages has a full working life, suffers less damage than one who has tried and progressed in life, and this mechanism cannot correct it. But the pensioners, in the greatest possible situation, have evened out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94113	Thank you. The word is in the name of the HNS club, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94114	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja said we need to run a deep analysis to understand this law, so I'll start with that. It's also this law, especially the whole system. Well, I'll start with that, sometimes half in a joke half in real life I said that the Croatian pension system may only understand two referents, two officials working in the ministry responsible for pensions, because it's so complicated that it's hard for us to understand, and of course it's hard to understand what's a bigger problem for people living than that system and living out of those pensions. And this bill of law is not going to make much of a contribution. For example, a minimum standard when proposing the Pensions Act should always be to provide information on the proportion of the average pensions in the average salary. If we want to understand something, if we're not going to deliberately or unintentionally engage in speculation with this or that, then some elemental data as part of a minimum standard should always be indicated. The Pension Insurance Act has changed eight times in the last seven years. We have in no case received this elemental information as to the proportion of the average pension in the Republic of Croatia on average salary. The information listed in each relevant approach and analysis of the pension system of any country and of course we do not have that information in either of these draft laws and we do not have any analysis that has been carried out here that would be available to us representatives through us somehow stronger and Croatian public. We don't have the average pension ratio of old pensioners and pensions of new pensioners to individual years. It would be nice to see how big it is, how it came to be that the 99th year supplement is 4% on pension, and the 2010 supplement. 27.0%. Based on what is calculated and what is the basis of this is the relationship between new pensioners and those who left before January 1st 1999. The peace system and the problem of new pensioners is one of the biggest injustices that has occurred in the Republic of Croatia in the last ten years and our system is so complicated that at the time of the adoption of this law, even five years after that, almost no one is aware that this problem will occur. This is because we have such a vague and complicated pension system and of course the attitude of anyone who is aware that there is this great injustice, that this injustice should be corrected as soon as possible and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and Liberal Democrats will support this law and one law and another, but our programme says that the Republic of Croatia must fully equalise pensions of old and new pensioners so that someone who has the same year of employment, the same qualification, the same year received the same salary must have the same pension on the basis of that. For several years before the Parliament, I was lucky to be a gentleman who ended up, spent his working life as a teacher of physical education, went into retirement in 2004 and his colleague left in 99 years, and it is not clear to a man how possible that if they had the same salary, the same school equipment, the same year they worked, so they both worked full-time, so someone could have a pension of 2 and a half thousand and someone a thousand and 900 kuna. And, of course, it makes sense that everyone who is aware of this difficulty, these terrible injustices, people are easier to endure poverty than injustice. It is necessary to support the adoption of these laws, but I say in the Croatian People's Party programme there is a full equalisation of the rights of new and old pensioners, and we will do so if, of course, we get the support and trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would warn here of some deformities of our pension system, and they are primarily measurable through that average pension share in average salary. Three-and-a-half years ago, that share, according to the data I have, was 44%. Today, after this harmonisation, he probably hasn't reached that level again, according to the data when I have, when the debt is included, then he was somewhere around 41-42% and with this increase he will return to 44%. So in that sense, we find ourselves where we were four years ago, and in that sense there was no significant shift. I'd like to ask why two laws? Why the supplement, and why not the pension? Why are we making our pension system so complicated again? Why this issue has not been resolved by the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, not by the adoption of a new supplement law, namely the proposal for an Appendix Act. In doing so, one category of pensioners under this law will again be treated unfairly. Under this law, family pensions will not be harmonised, i.e. this supplement will not be accompanied by an increase in pensions that are based on harmonisation but are fixed by a date and that amount will be fixed and that share of pensions, this salary allowance, to the pension for family pensions under this law remains the same despite the increase in pensions, the increase in cost of life, the increase in wages, the increase in gross social product, etc., and yet another group of pensioners will be in an unequal position compared to another, and it is not about large amounts of money and there is no need to create another injustice. If we believe that family pensioners are entitled to this pension, then they also have the right to have their pension, add to that pension, increase that pension as well as any other regular pension. As for those elements of change beyond this supplement, these are all measures to be welcomed. The increase in the lowest pension compared to existing solutions after 30 years of internships is logical in itself. And it's strange that such a provision existed in our pension system at all. The reduction rate for early retirement is logical up to 65 years, but is completely illogical after 65 years. If someone has to punish or make it harder for him, if he's gone into early retirement, then it makes sense up to 65 years, but it doesn't make any sense after 65 years, so the question is that that provision stays in this law at all. And I also think it's a good provision for employees who are in disability pensions, that they can have a higher pension because their incomes are not high anyway. However, this law is difficult in 2008 for a billion and 16 million kuna. It's big money. And that question, despite what big money it was supposed to be, had to be resolved completely and had to be resolved before. I'm just going to have to warn you, despite my absolute support for the equalization of old and new pensioners' rights in a complete, whole way, not a partial and not a flat-rate way, as is the case here. And if it were a cobweb... interpretations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's not quite easy to do, it's the fact that we're doing the items, but in this budget rebalancing, or the amendments that the government has given us, we've had to cut because of this law. First of all, for this year, the costs of these two laws are 127 million kunas according to the government's assessment, and the government's amendments only talk about the change in rebalancing, rebalancing, rebalancing for 60 million kuna. But items that are shrinking are items for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and items for our national participation in pre-accession funds. This social policy measure, if this is a measure of social policy, absolutely deserves and needs support, but it should be pointed out that it is not complete, that it is too late and that we will have to be faced with some developmental positions being at stake, and this should never happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94115	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94116	Dear counterpart Rados said that if the average pension included compensation, then it would be at 41% compared to the average salary. If 2006 compensation was included in pension income, the average pension would be 44.5%, and this would be 46% for 2007, given that the first war of compensation for, according to variant B, would also come. It's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94117	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At first, I will say, of course, that the HDZ Club will support both of these laws, meaning the Pension Insurance Act, or the pension add-on to the Pension Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Just give me a few words. So in Croatia we can look at it this way from this distance and from this pay phone, the life of the average man is not what we say or what we see, but it is a daily environment of concerns, hopes and anxiety that people in Croatia face. The pre-election promise should be fulfilled because our efforts to enter Europe as soon as possible, pension, health, social and labour reforms and to praise foreigners with these reforms and laws and our foreign policy are not sufficient. The average little man also wants to see his safe place under the sun. And to see him first, it's a matter of righteousness. The question of righteousness in the achievement of the common good can also be asked by an increasingly numerous group, and it has been asked through this time of these so-called so-called “supervision. ” new pensioners who made pensions according to the wrongly-labeled reformed pension law. But it was not reformed but a whole new law that meant reducing pension rights expenditure. Therefore, the pensions made under this law were significantly lower than the pensions previously made, whose debt was paid back to the users before these others. Therefore, these new users have the right to appeal to their right to general benefit within the pension system. And the campaign to correct the injustice against that group of pensioners is starting to be dealt with for sure. I am totally inappropriate when opposition political parties at this point offer sweetly or offer quick resolution and correction of injustice towards a group of new pensioners because this thread was neither genuine nor based on facts. In fact, it was the planting of the current government. It is always and above all necessary to go from the actual facts and circumstances that are relevant but also limiting the factor in the adoption of regulations that create the right and bring justice to most citizens. That's why it's a little bit forgotten, and in this House so many times, the Christmas message of Archbishop Bozanić about the sinful structures of government is still current. But now it refers not only to the power that then collapsed but also to those who promised to change, but when they came to power, they changed nothing significantly or showed a desire for these changes, especially when it comes to the pension system but also to the other social standard of citizens. Therefore, the unconvinced proposals of pension laws and the resolution of pension issues by the SDP as well as the HSS, which also removed their proposals from the sleeves and offered rescue solutions to correct all injustices. The HDZ, unlike them, has fulfilled its pre-election promises and therefore the government has referred these two laws to us for acceptance in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law on the addition of pensions proposes to address the problem of 364 thousand so-called. New pensioners. Thus, the new pensioners will receive more pensions in the future and they will increase from 4% to 27% depending on the year of retirement. Those who retired in 1999 will receive 4% more pensions and future pensioners who retire in 2010 can count on 27% higher pensions while, for example, the person who retired this year can count on a 25.2% pension increase. The increase will be paid as an add-on to the pension but will be subject to half-year adjustment. This law will certainly eliminate the differences between pensioners so far. The pension add-on law also covers beneficiaries of pensions made under international social insurance contracts. Of course, part of the pension achieved in the Croatian pension system as well as users of the lowest pensions. In addition to this bill, the Government sent us the Parliament and the Proposal for Amendments and the Pension Insurance Act, which should enter into force on 1 January 2008. It will limit early retirement to a maximum of 9% and not 20% as so far and 40% reduction by five years earlier. A solution to the problem of property pensions for which the coefficient is calculated from 0.3 increased to 0.5 a from 0.5 to 0.667. These pensions will be up 48% on average. For the calculation of the minimum pensions throughout the year, the internship will be scored by the same coefficient of 0.825. It is an approach the HDZ has in fulfilling its pre-election promises. And I remind you that one party's promises under parole came true: "We want to change.". Of these changes, there was almost nothing. For example, since the privatisation review, nothing has been achieved, economic crime, financial engineering and the disappearance of strong money, particularly from the diaspora. Some deadlines have been reduced from ten to five years old, which only makes it easier for taxpayers to act on a budget basis and we know that such taxes are not paid by the poor. It is only an increased social decomposition and the disappearance of the middle class of citizenship and an accelerated division of the rich and the poor. There are significant pay cuts for all state and public services to start opening, inventing and multiplying small and medium-sized, and higher bossing places with increased coefficients paying everything under the company's reform and service. All people at the age of 30 and over have been reduced by half the lowest pensions guaranteed. Workers who were out of work and had possible conditions for early retirement had their right to cash compensation abolished and forced that type of criminal retirement which was also subsequently reduced. The possibility has been abolished even by living with a small fee for unemployment meets the conditions for a slightly larger age-old peace. There was no respect for the fact that going to early retirement is an exception and actually free choice of pensioners because of his personal circumstances. By abolishing the right to cash unemployment benefits for such older workers, going to early retirement was a pure coercion for a man who had lost his job. The result of early retirement is also a permanent burden with a penalty in the form of a permanent reduction of such pensions of up to 20 percent and more. These laws, which the Government has sent to us and which we will bring to justice, are at least partially corrected, at a time when it is very convenient and well discussed in the Croatian Parliament because some of the laws that the party has brought under the "We want to change" password were passed in many later hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94119	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94120	It is entirely incorrect for the government to keep its pre-election promises, respectively. Neither pre-election nor post-election in agreement with HSU. The government has committed to changing the form of pension harmonisation so that they are in line with the increase in salaries of all employees. It has committed that on 1 January 2005, pensions will be harmonised to 50% of the average salary. They're up 39%, they're down. The average pension, the average pension rate on average, fell during this government. It has committed to improve the position of those who have made pensions in other former SFRY republics. None of it was. The HDZ simply does not keep its pre-election and post-election promises and the findings that since the privatisation review, nothing has been quite surprising. The privatisation audit was carried out without a HDZ-organised robbery in that privatisation should not have been an audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94121	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94122	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, it's all politics. So this debate and timing and debate on this Bill on the add-on to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, and therefore it is no wonder that today in one of our daily lists an open letter to Vladimir Jordan to the President of the Retired Party, and here it is incorrect that Mr. Jordan does not seem to me to be a parliamentary representative but in some way this letter is like some background of this debate and where he says in this letter that you and the Government do not respect the Constitutional Court's decision. And it's obviously some foreplay about this debate that was reported to have taken place yesterday following the completion of the agenda that it was going to happen today. And obviously we can't get away from our past, especially those, those bad pasts. Just as we are burdened with certain ideological topics that sort of burden our present and in some ways do not actually open perspectives for the future, it is the same with equal rights that we can say that some of the things that have happened in the recent past are also burdening us with some more radical and long-term reforms of our pension system. We can speak here whether something is long-term or really ad hoc, but I'm afraid that just when politics gets involved and when, when we come to certain solutions in this timing, we can't talk about long-termity, but exactly when we try to correct these injustices that are evident and that every politician here in this Parliament, every politician, every political party, every political party, has to stop at all and it's really an attempt to be certain... The population, a certain segment of our society, raises the standard of living. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is welcome, and on that side, we are giving, we must give support to every effort that in some way corrects, corrects, corrects, and certain, certain injustices. And certainly now that you'd see here already being here and talking about this when you start coming in then each of us will depend on his political orientation to find some reason so we'll... talk about privatisation and conversion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact that these processes suddenly created a large number of new pensioners. That those afterlifes were tough years. That it was just one of those populations that paid for the war and certain positions after the early 1990s and were just retired. And that something had happened, so the Constitutional Court had to react there in 1998. It's all actually facts. But I'm saying then we'll go back to this much worse history, so we'll really do what some here say about our unfortunate history, and we'll see that the good part, that somewhere almost a billion euros a year costs us this unfortunate history, or those who get some benefits not because of the fact, because of their own, because of what they've earned but precisely that it's the price and unfortunate history, and obviously that we'll have to make this price of unfortunate history quite further, rather generated, and that we'll still be until we just realize that it can't be one day's naked policy, struggle for political votes, rather than simply desire that, that our pension reform is successful and that we give real results that the pensioners expect us to do. But obviously if we take that as a social category then it's not good but it's about, it's about, that a large number of pensioners actually earned something and that what he earned to pay him in an adequate way. That he has some funds, that he paid for it, and that he has the right to withdraw from those funds, but that these funds also have to act in the way of good lords and that these funds must not, at all, be in a position to place that money there for years and, in the right way, fertilize. And I say just like us, we're going to insist on such a longer-term pension reform that won't be paliable. Which will try to, that certain negative implications extend to as much time as possible and actually forget that we are going into one, that we are constantly in some elections, and that because of some choices, we have to make these and such moves. Because that's exactly how we behave, then we're going to question our own political substance, and then it's very hard for us to, that both the political scene and the social scene will stabilize if we do something every time because of what we say about the effects that we're going to feel is whether it's 299 or not I don't know how many kunas. Well, when you multiply it, it's really impressive. But we also mustn't focus just on increasing pensions or on pensions but on what can you do? I don't know, you can raise your pension, but then take it off the list of 5 medications and you actually have the same effect or you still have a negative effect. This problem, the problem of caring about these older, older categories of our society, indeed, it shows how humane a society is, how ready it is to invest right now in the intervention of the state. She has to intervene because it's those people who are 65 years old that you can hardly expect to take care of themselves. I'm saying in that sense, in that sense, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to support exactly every effort that seems to be, it seems, that certain injustices are being done. To get coordination. To those people who worked to make what they earned, to make it enough for one normal, normal life. But I also say I have to warn until this work ethic or work category is there, there's not that weight in our society, which should have, as in some of those societies that live in Weber's spirit of perception of work, that Protestant work ethic, I'm afraid that every time we actually have this same political competition about something that we shouldn't compete about and just talk about whether it's an ad hoc or that something has a more long-term character. I say that is why, for these very reasons, we would like to go yet one, one pension reform that, which will be the subject of a public debate and consensus of all political parties, will in no way be part of any trade. Most dangerously, it's the most difficult thing in politics when you hear something about the subject of trade. I don't want to believe it, I don't want to participate in it because at the end of the day there's nothing to buy, not even the voices of people, and especially something to buy something that someone has said bloodyly earned and what by definition belongs to them. I say so that on the one hand I can show this satisfaction that, with these two laws ahead of us, there will be an improvement in the standard of living of new pensioners, but I'm also afraid that, that, if not before then, there are still other solutions coming to us, which are expecting us, because if not before then, it is on this Assembly's calling to do without haste, that without what, without any, studioy means without any hatred but just analyticalally to see what we have to do and to see that luggage of the past that we, and our unfortunate past that we are carrying, and as some processes have happened but what the English say, "The spilled milk can't go back." Some things happened there in the 1990s. And then certainly what I always say is injustice is relatively, or injustice is easy to do but it is not at all simple to correct it. And even when there is good will, then we are correcting certain injustices, creating some new things that just happened with this debt adjustment, and we have solved the old pensioners, but we have forgotten that in the meantime some new pensioners are coming into existence, and then to them, we have also made an unnecessary debt to them. I want to deeply believe that the improvement of living standards will indeed feel very strongly, but I also plead to the government first and foremost that this approach to this concern of concern over these most vulnerable segments of society will be complete, that they cannot possibly be in just one segment, and then in the second segment we take some moves that will then question this good will, noble intentions and goals that I say I do not doubt. But then some other solutions, some other laws, could be fouls that we don't need, and hopefully never again will any decision by the Constitutional Court be on this trail to determine that it's since '93. until '98. The years that the pensioners were the ones who paid for our war and all the consequences that every normal war behind them has caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94123	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94124	Ma colleague Kramarić mentions the right by definition. In the pension system, he's right under the law. One is a sense of justice, and the other is the right of the user of the pension system to belong under the law. If it wasn't for that, the old pensioners would never have been compensated. They had one right that belonged to them under the law, and the other was the right they actually consumed and the difference between those two rights gave them the right to compensation. So we have to consume rights by law, not by definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94125	Thank you. A SDP representative club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94126	Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I listened a dozen days ago to an interesting debate on Croatian Radio that discussed morality in politics. On that occasion, one of our prominent ethics experts said that in fact, politics should never question the motives of a political decision, but that what is done in politics must be evaluated, not as a motive. And that's why I'm going to avoid talking here about something that's quite evident. To adopt laws such as those we are discussing today and that should bring about a steady improvement in the lives of people about fifteen or twenty days before the election, it is really too much to talk about these motives. I would say that what happened for four years is that they've been fighting for four hours following yesterday's situation, fighting at four o'clock, and something that's been warned of for four years, and it's been four years that it can't be done or it's not time yet, and so on. as it was working in four hours procedurally as it was sent to this House yesterday at eight o'clock, as the debate was forced just a few hours behind it, etc. talks about purely political motives, exclusively pre-election motives, and no motive to facilitate or improve the life of anyone in this country. That's the first thing I have to say about these two bill proposals. Second. With great expectation and curiosity, as well as a large number of new pensioners, I was waiting for a proposal from this law, which my colleague Hrelja said was not an ad hoc solution, but was being prepared in the long term, and now I read the reply on November 2, 2006 seven, eight months ago to my colleagues, Hrelja. He said by reading the text of the answer, I learned that the Government of Croatia is not yet ready to truly approach the resolution of these issues so important for the retirement population in Croatia and says: “We are witnessing the increasingly difficult material position of this population group, so for us, an incomprehensible delay in finding the best solutions for the observed shortcomings only further worsens the situation.” 2006 is of course about new pensioners. But what I'm saying is, I guess you all know together that this is a fast-tracked solution, a solution that doesn't stand for a serious job. It will be a profession, although it is a complicated matter for ordinary citizens to consider the profession as inadmissible incursion to the pension system, an inadmissible intrusion. In serious countries, it can't even be imagined, let alone changing institutes that generally or in the long term produce effects for which no one has actually calculated what the effects will be. For example, measures to reduce the restrictions on early retirement will certainly produce the opposite effect of what should be produced in a country where a million and four hundred thousand people work, and one million and one hundred and seven thousand are pensioners. Again, by facilitating early retirement rather than stimulating longer work, the pension system will again be compromised and all the reasons why the HDZ government began to change will be questioned. For example, let us go back to the law that we have been waiting so long and which was adopted in a session of the government in a hurry yesterday. It is once again difficult for me to say this about one of the biggest pension frauds as they are systematically being deceived for so many years. I'll explain what the point of this scam is. I believe that the well-intentioned colleagues in the position do not even recognize the scale of this fraud and that they defend this proposal with a keen belief that what is declared to be happening will happen. And it is declared that something will increase the reception of new pensioners, which is basically not incorrect. However, in Article 2 of this Law, paragraph 6 states precisely that of the total of 378 000 new pensioners. These 143 thousand 337 who receive the lowest pension will get nothing, nothing or just a few kunas. I'll try to explain to you how that's gonna happen. In the second subparagraph of Article 6(2), it is also said that contrary to the interpretation of the Deputy Prime Minister, the beneficiaries of the minimum pension laid down under the Pension Insurance Act shall be determined on the basis of their total pension pension standing for the determination of pensions, their salaries, i.e. the basis of insurance and shall be paid together with that pension if the amount of pensions, together with the surcharge under paragraph 1 of this Article, exceeds the sum of the minimum pension. So we have 143 thousand 337 people who receive a pension of up to 1.200,00 kuna. Suppose we're talking about a pensioner who left in '99, to try and explain it. He's leaving in '99, and this government's gonna give them a 40-dollar raise. I'm talking about an average pension and an average internship for 28 years. These 40 kunas can only receive the one or they will only get the one whose pension is no more than 1.160,00 kuna. They all get nothing under it. They will nominally increase pensions for these 40 kunas if he had 830 will write 840 and he will continue to receive thousands and 200 kuna. That's what people need to know, that's fair to tell people. So 38%, 40% of the pensioners get zero. In the light of the bill's proposal, we had to go to that restriction because there was no money. This means that 800 million kunas are intended to be given in the following year, exclusively for those who have high, although they all have low, high or higher pensions. It's a screaming injustice to the pain. And again, she's the biggest poor girl in the world who's ever been in the waiting room, and she's going to get her fig back. People, don't play with it. At the 10th month when they get as much as they did last month, and you tell them you gave them something, they'll curse you worse than you promised them anything. Believe me, it's a dangerous job. You're not gonna get paid for that game. It won't be worth it. You know, every day I get to talk to a lot of retired people, a lot of them talk to me. Here's a notice from a pensioner about a debt return. Let me just say that as a boomerang, it's back to fraud. There is no day for Prime Minister Sanader not to say that this government recognized the debt problem and it returns it, and in a notice sent to the members here on this particular example, I deleted the name and last name, saying that this pensioner, by law passed by the coalition government to increase pensions in order to remove the difference from 1.1.2001, was returned 20 thousand 438 kuna and is said to have already received an additional 14 thousand 866 kuna. So the missus is writing, and you've got $35,000 back, and we still need to get you $75,000, 175, and she says okay. If I want it in two years, three and a half. It's a very simple story, and these pensioners know it. You've been returned 35 grand, we'll pay you back in three and a half thousand kuna. That's what these people know, you can't convince them it's not like that. Which will tell you 251,000 pensioners to whom you have sent notice that you owe them 0,00 kuna and 20 thousand more of these family about 270 thousand people. So you know what they think about such a government, not that it won't give you a voice, but you've made them more bitter, and every time the Prime Minister says we're the government that recognizes and repays the debt, it comes back like a curse in front of a TV when you hear a statement like that. Don't use it because they're not even retired fools, you might be able to convince someone, but people do. What do people know? People know that in the term of those government pensions they nominally increased by 572 kuna on average or 48%. When the cost of living, inflation, then that pension growth was real, the real one was 33%. Those pensions were still miserable and thousands of 723 kunas. And do you know how much in the term of this government's pension has grown by 182 kuna, and that turns out when the cost of living is denied that the pensions were zero, one June pensioners from this government didn't get. One lip! ... Gentlemen, one more thing, and you're good at it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What you're saying here can be certain that the pensioners know very well how much they could buy with the one and how well they know with this pension. So, gentlemen, the way we're going with this bill of law at the time we're going to go won't bring the result because it's about improvising about ad hoc solution team more and that's worse than offering a bill that showed how the problem can be solved. True, not with 800 million in next year, but 2 billion and 50 million. We can even the whole new and old pensioners and we'll do it. I only regret that this proposal has made it difficult for us to work, because this law will, once it passes, establish a model that is a new contribution to the chaos of retirement insurance that is deeply unfair, but which we will support. Why gentlemen? Yes, we will support your unfair law because we think if you can for one month, if you can be coerced for one month, even if you can afford 40 million kunas as much as you can in that month for this supplement. To write 30 billion, forgive me, so 40 million kuna is really no money. If this will also be given to more pensioners and we will support it, but the result you expect you can be quite certain you will not achieve with such a bill, because there is not a single element that could qualify it as anything more than a simple pre-election flossule that does not solve any of the only problems of new pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94127	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94128	Your Honor, Mr. President, it would be best to say everything is incorrect, but I can't say it like that, because then I'm gonna get a warning, so I'm gonna say a few things anyway. First, it's incorrect that it's a political action ahead of the elections, but it's a system that has now come to order, and you haven't even been able to do it, not even such a political action before the elections, and you could have suggested it. We'd be you, we... They're happy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, it says inadmissible entry into the pension system. Well, it's an upgrade to the pension system. The peace system is not something that is permanent and immutable, but that needs to be kept up to the people who are coming into retirement and possibly towards... And third thing, you say it's the biggest scam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's simply incorrect, and that's incorrect and you say yourself that they vote for it. And since you showed, but I don't think the SDP would vote for the biggest con, I still don't believe it. This SDP would not, and to you personally as a HDZ accession, be very concerned about HDZ. I mean, I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94129	With the access card, do you want it in party rooms or something? Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, second Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94130	First, quoting my statement or what's written there is one manipulation because the quote is not related to this topic. Secondly, this is not an inadmissible entry into the pension system, but an upgrade and a path towards equality. Third, the pensioner fraud was made in 2002 when the most endangered categories of pensioners reduced pension rights, and for that you are responsible. The SDP proposal does not include the lowest pensions, so they are excluded in your proposal and do not say that you are doing better than this model. The scam is your claim that there is no debt. Your proposal is based, i.e. not on the fact of who paid what, but is propagating a new one and of the 560 kuna increase you claim, in your term 400 kuna was calculated at the same time as the repayment of the debt, so tell me how one money can be counted for two purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94131	Third correction, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94132	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said a number of incorrect allegations that the solution is a fast-tracked solution that does not stand a serious solution and that it is an inadmissible entry into the pension system. That is absolutely not true, although their proposals have tried to make such a quick solution. The government has said exactly that in the 7th month, it will have a proposal to address the issue of new pensioners. Then, he says it's a general product and an effect that no one can predict what's going to happen. It is not true, because both laws state exactly how much money is needed in 2008, 2009, 2010 etc. Then, that the pensioners didn't get any lip. Well, I don't know who they split all that billions of money to if the pensioners didn't get a dime. Well, that's really without a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94133	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94134	Veli Mr. Vidovic is again talking about one of the biggest pensioners' frauds. Well, the pensioner scam was in 2002 when you regulated it by law, and I find it extremely inhumane today, in the pre-election year, you're all very concerned about injustice and possible fraud, and especially the SDP that forgets that in most of all the injustices was either a participant or that many of the likes of the injustices I've maimed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94135	Dear Representative Anton Perusko, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94136	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Vidovic said on behalf of the SDP club that the moment at this pre-election time when another new scam is offered to pensioners will not result. That's incorrect. The expected result will be struck because our citizens of the pensioners cannot be deceived with such fraud and they will receive this result in the upcoming elections, which you say they will not, and that the Croatian Democratic Community will send in opposition because of this and numerous other frauds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94137	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94138	Thank you very much. Well, a respected colleague is Vidovic all the time while he was talking he was smiling, so I believe he doesn't believe what he was saying, but since he said we still have to correct it, and these corrections would have been a few despite his smile. So he said it wasn't with 800 million help from the pensioners, it was with 2 billion. We would have helped with 4 billion if you hadn't made 6.4% of the government budget deficit that we had to pay for 10 months to come up with some kind of zero that we could start these reforms from. So you've eaten a four-year increase in pensions through ignorance or intentional mishandling of the state budget. If we had made a mess of pensions, we didn't, but you're in the economy, so only when we fixed that mess could we go solve the pensioners. It's not true that it's a lousy money, because whoever, and I don't know if you know whether or not you know it's honest money they'll never call it a scrawny, and our pensioners what they're getting right now is fair and bloody well earned. And in the end, you say there's an action ahead of the election. You signed so many investment contracts before the elections, and the last one worth 70 million kuna was the Ministry of Health last night before the elections. It was pre-election, and this was agreed before the previous elections with our coalition partners, but we had to solve your chaos so we could realize only now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94139	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94140	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! A few predecessors mentioned ethics and morality. Let me say that the pension reform that we are talking about has therefore begun the implementation of the pension reform since 1.1.1999. That the biggest differences in the pensions of new pensioners were made in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, etc. Today these differences are shrinking. If we talk about ethics and morality, then it would be ethical and moral that at a time when this could have been affected and that the problems that would arise had already been identified, enormous differences in the average pensions of new pensioners and that when it could have reacted and reacted, the negative consequences of the 1998 pension reform were eliminated. But it didn't seem at the time. When we talk about whether it was a systematic solution? Yes, it was systematically working on this solution. The government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed a special commission dealing with this. This commission or working group, as you will, was composed not only of representatives of the Government, but also of representatives of the Croatian Party of pensioners, pensioners' associations, the Mother of Retired, the Union of pensioners and representatives of union centres as well as representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association. So formed, so teamed up working group on this solution worked not four days, not four months, but a lot more than half a year. Work intensively and looking for solutions. Now there's something about fraud. If a fraud is admitted in the term of this government there is a debt, if fraud is what we recognise the Constitutional Court's decision and if fraud is what we found 13.8 billion kunas to compensate the pensioners, then let it be called a fraud. If it's a scam to solve new pensioners' problems this year, we'll find 130 additional million kunas and a billion and 50 million kunas in 2008. And now a few words about the increase in the pensions of the lowest pensions users because it was apostrophe as the biggest fraud. Before I look back on that with a few sentences, let me just do something. About 60,000 early retirement beneficiaries made under the Pension Insurance Act starting on January 1, 1999. and here, which will permanently increase the amount of pensions from 1 January 2008 based on the fact that we are reducing from 20.4% that you have implemented to a maximum of 9%, the result will be that, for example, the early retirement pension which now amounts to a thousand and 800 kunas will in the future amount to 2 thousand 58 kuna and will be paid on pension in the 11th month by the beneficiary of an early retirement pension which, by this time or until that time, amounted to a thousand 80 kuna. 258 kunas will be more highly appreciated. Sixty thousand are users of such pensions that will benefit from what we offer. It's about 3,000 people who are employed and users are disabled pensions because of professional incompetence. To them, for example, the average pension of these users of 650 kuna will now increase to 970 kuna. And now something about really the users of the lowest pensions. I said the change in the coefficient of 0.825 was worth up to 30 years of internship, and 0.412 was the coefficient for calculating the lowest pension for those who had more than 30 years of internship. What's that gonna bring? Well, that'll bring the next one. These figures I think very clearly show whether users of the lowest pensions will have benefits from all of this. He'll bring the next one. The current lowest pension for 35 years guards is a thousand 620 kuna. After implementation of this law, there will be a thousand 745 and 125 kuna, respectively. In 40 years' time, the lowest pension will be 250 kuna higher. And 45 years from now, the lowest pension will increase to 374 kuna. 87,000 are users of the lowest pensions that will benefit among other things. And now about another how you say fraud. The fraud that the pension allowance will be calculated on the basis of a pension that is actually calculated under the Pension Insurance Act, so that if the calculated basis increased for an add-on exceeds the lowest pension the difference to that amount will therefore be paid through pension. If such a basis is increased for an add-on, it will still be less than the lowest pension that is growing drastically by these applications that I have mentioned then the lowest pension will be paid to man. And there are hardly any users of the lowest pension that will not benefit from this. And now that you say it's unfair! When you say it's a scam! Then I must remind you, then I must remind you that your Retirement Law to eliminate pension differences achieved in different periods has increased from 0.5 to 20% in 2000 and that the exact same principle that you are saying today was applied to pensions with a protective allowance. Only so much about morality and ethics and who's right about what and when to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94141	Honorable representative Antun Perusko, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94142	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Deputy Prime Minister that this government has provided 13.8 billion funds to pay back the pensioners. It's absolutely and completely incorrect and it should be discarded. The government didn't secure anything. The government came to these funds by selling out the national silver that these same pensioners created. And therefore, you didn't secure anything but sell out. I'm asking you what you could possibly sell tomorrow if you just happened to stay in power and I know you wouldn't, and then where this country would lead. And you drill into your chest like a party that best protects national interests after you've sold out banks, businesses, and now you're selling out national silver. I think all this really needs to come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94143	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94144	Mr. Vice President, it's not true that you've claimed that the government has already given 13 billion for pensions. These 13 billion just promise you'll give and that'll only be given in eight years. And what you gave was a sale as Mr. Peru says, and then you say there's no fraud. And if you remember, please, this is a fraud, whether it was two and a half years ago you were already in Canada with Prime Minister Sanader, with several other ministers pompously announced a huge investment by our emigrants from Canada. You remember those big businessmen who'll be investing billions of dollars with your credit in Croatia. Suddenly, overnight, that story came out of circulation. Is that a scam?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94145	This charming conversation must now be quieted down a bit. HSP club respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94146	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law states that the necessary means for implementing the law will be necessary in 2008. 190 million kuna, 2009. 239 million kuna and in 2010 274 million kuna. It is also necessary for the implementation of the Pension Insurance Act under the Pension Insurance Act in 2007 to be implemented in the year 127 million kuna, in the year 2008 826 million kuna and in 2009 957 million kuna. I really don't know where millions will come from, and I really hope this is an honest and fair solution to our retired. And I also think that all that money that was stolen from the conversion and privatisation that was returned to Croatia and taken away now would be very good for our pensioners. The HSP club supports the proposals of these laws. We actually support any law that will improve the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially our pensioners who are really cut off. And we deeply hope that this isn't just a pre-election promise and that it won't be left for the new government, or for the new old government that will then say that there isn't enough funds for it. That would be shame and sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94147	An individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These two legislative proposals could be called new contributions to deepening the relations between the three representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners and the Croatian government and to the harm of the pensioners themselves. I repeat, and to the detriment of the pensioners themselves. How many representatives of the Croatian pensioners believe in the quality of these legal proposals prove that three of them are not present today in the assembly, two-thirds of the club is missing. Two-thirds of the club is missing and is probably left as the greenest fig leaf Mr. Silvano Hrelja, a fig leaf that should cover the shame of this trade business. Why am I talking about the shame of business? I have an agreement in front of me since 3 December 2003 between the Croatian party of pensioners and the Croatian government. It's about pension rights. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons undertakes that its representatives in the Croatian Parliament will support the government's proposals and vote for them in accordance with this agreement. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to change the form of pension harmonisation by harmonising them with the increase in wages, to bring pensions into line on 1 January 2005 at a level of 50% of the average salary, and to improve the situation of those pensioners who made their pensions in other former SFRY republics. Croatian pensioners do their best. They honorably and committedly fulfill their side of the contract, they are a solid coalition partner. There's not such a bad bill of government that they haven't raised a hand for yet. They don't complain about anything, they support everything. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, has failed to meet either of these points. She had changed the method of synchronizing only for a month so she returned it to... formula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not that it did not reach an average pension of 50% of the average salary on 1 January 2005, but that share of the average pension in the average salary fell from the time of signing the agreement to today. In 2003, according to the Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance and the State Statistics Office in 2003, at the time of signing this agreement, it was 43.20% and today it is 39.7%. So, not that he didn't reach 50%, but he did. Despite the fact that the average pensions, compared with the average salaries, fell at the time of the government's term, the Croatian party of pensioners supports this government. And that's why I have the right to say that these laws are also a new contribution to the better co-operation of three HSU representatives with this government at the expense of the pensioners. Because for the pensioners, it certainly is a shame that their average pensions are lower than average salaries during the time HSU is a coalition partner of the government. It's a damage to the pensioners. They are offered for this problem of equalising pensions of old and new pensioners better solutions. When the SDP offered its Bill proposal last year last year, HSU objected that it was not good to add to the pension but rather to be an integral part of the pension. It's a good addition today. The HDZ, meanwhile, objected that it is not good that SDP's law provides for funds to be provided in the budget but that this should go from the Peace Fund. Today, it proposes budget funding. Which means that the two most important objections that were made last fall to the SDP's proposal for a solution to this issue were meaningless, fictional. And that those who then pointed them out to their complaints today hold absolutely nothing. They deny them themselves and derogate them. Would any of these proposals be better for the pensioners alone? The SDP that HDZ rejected or the one he's offering today? According to what it offers in the following year, it will be allocated from the budget of 826 million kuna to this end all year round. According to the SDP's 2007 proposal, a billion and 600 million kuna were to be provided. Double that. So that means that the SDP law was passed, the pensioners would get a billion and 600 kunas higher and this way they would get 826 million kuna more and that year later. If the SDP proposal had already been accepted today, these pensions would have been leveled by a similar principle only at higher levels. I wonder if then this is such a wonderful relationship, this agreement between the three representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners and the Croatian government for the benefit or for the harm of the pensioners themselves? When we proposed the law last fall, and when HDZ rejected it, we said, "If you reject it because it is SDP's proposal, take it, rewrite it. Send in the parliamentary procedure as the government's proposal we will vote for it." Celebrate. Celebrate just do it so that immediately in 2007 the pensioners begin to receive, these new pensioners. You said no. Why did we claim that it was possible to secure a billion and 600 million kuna in the 2007 budget? Because the 2007 budget grew 9 billion. So we've been saying, well, I guess the hell with the nine billion, some kind of redistribution can get to these billions and 600 for these most endangered. You didn't accept. Now, payment is due in October, first payment. So clearly it's a pre-election stunt, but so clearly it's such a pre-election trick and legitimate. Well, I guess that's what the government has the right to try to buy an electoral body a month before the election. Well, that's government law. Well, I guess we won't argue with that. The question is, will those who are bought or tried to buy this will understand your intentions? Will that give you confidence, give you a voice? Some will. I'm sure some of them will. Some will. Is everybody coming? I don't know. It is the government's right to treat voters in this way. For the pensioners, it would be much better if this government treated them as fellow citizens of worth of attention, not just to count them as potential voters, as ballots in a box. So they would appreciate you and perhaps give you a voice more if in your actions I could read the sincere intention to improve their position. And you might have read it if you had accepted this SDP proposal in autumn. To make it a joint proposal. To the benefit of these pensioners. Neither to the benefit of the Government nor the HDZ nor to the benefit of the SDP. Well, pensioners are one group that votes differently. Some for HDZ, some for HNS, some for HSU, some for SDP. Very important. It's very important who they vote for. At this point, especially these new pensioners are a vulnerable group and should be helped, should have helped them a year earlier and with twice the amount we suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94149	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94150	So where did you find your dear colleague? I'm gonna track me down for a fig leaf. Even as much as I can't cover this hollow story. Please look closely, please, I appeal to your length of memory because, of course, in this House, we have opposed the government's proposals and legislative proposals have fallen. If you weren't there, I can't help you. And it wasn't just one month of the harmonisation formula that was related to wage growth but 18 months or three coordination periods, and it wasn't true that this formula was only applicable to the mandate of this government, but has been valid since 1999 and only 18 months have been different. And the damages we're talking about are likely to add to that damage and an additional five and a half billion damages that will be paid on behalf of pensioners or their heirs during 2006 and 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94151	The second amendment to the esteemed correction by Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94152	Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect that fellow Stazic that HSU representatives do not believe in this law because there are only one third of them. 33% present in the assembly during the debate. It is true that SDP officials do not trust your discussion because it only listens to you for 6 out of 33 weeks. 18% and believe in the law because you will ultimately vote for it as announced by counterpart Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94153	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markinović. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94154	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the more I look at my colleague's temple, the more I really have the urge to make it look like a fig leaf, that's definitely covering the agreements. Apparently, fellow Stazic is wrong to you that this agreement works and not only with colleagues, Hreja, but also with other partners who support us. But when we ask your ex-partners HSS, HSLS and finally IDS how it worked, the government said they couldn't agree on anything. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94155	It's just a poet figure one, and there's no expressive verbis indication of a quote that's being corrected. That's understood. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94156	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague said that these legal proposals are at the expense of the pensioners themselves, which is absolutely not true. They benefit from pensioners who were beneficiaries of early and old age pensions and disability pensions due to professional inability to work and users of the lowest pension. He also said that during their government, the share of pensions in salaries increased. That's true because wages fell to up to 20% and normally that then the share of pensions in wages increased, not because pensions and wages were really growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94157	And the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94158	Well, it's an incorrect allegation that I'm welcoming right now because it's coming out of the assembly, that this government is counting pensioners as the ballots in a box and that it's some kind of pre-election stunt. This absolutely needs to be corrected because this is only during this term of office I would dare say a point on and on all those measures that went towards improving the standards of pensioners and pensioners. This government had the courage and ability and expertise to catch up with this problem and to rightly solve it unlike the four-year term before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94159	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94160	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleges. We have before us a law that has caused as I see violent controversy by the opposition because they obviously did not understand it. The law refers to a quarter of the Croatian population. So it's a very serious problem, not a laughing matter. It is a problem that depends on the standard of those of our elders who have invested in this country, who have invested in this society, who deserve to now that they have a country to benefit from it and a certain benefit for a better life. Why didn't this government do it four years ago? Because she inherited two large groups of problems. Among other things, there are problems for pensioners. That's the first debt from '98. on the basis of the Constitutional Court, which the past Government did not dare even begin to resolve. Then the problems stemmed from pension reform such as early, age property, disability and because of professional incompetence, the level of the lowest pension, and ultimately this unfortunate debt or lack of reform to which new pensioners were denied 20% to 30% of the pension. The second group of problems was that this could not be solved in 2004 but only 2007. The government budget deficit of 6.4%, a $24 billion increase in the Racan government's mandate, an economy based on external debt, an economy based not on production, but on external debt, huge sales irregularities. Now we mentioned just before the Rijeka Bank, May 3rd, Viktor Lenac, Excelsior, and I would add to that why colleagues object that we are repaying debt to the pensioners and improving the standard. They had a much bigger sale, but they ate and drank everything from that sale. Let's remember their sales. HT sold into majority ownership to foreigners. The pensioners had nothing to do with it. If they had paid back the debt of the pensioners, we would have said that was the sacrifice of what was to be sacrificed. That 25% of the INA shares were passed to the pensioners by every honour, come on, you sold a strategic package despite the majority right of management which is a shame, a national disgrace but you gave it to the pensioners. If you had illegally sold the Pliva package to the pensioners, we would have told you both the honor of such an oversight and such incompetence, but you were selling family silver and then ate it and drank it. Now, that's for judgment. If this government is passing family silver for the benefit of the pensioners, then it's commendable because these pensioners used to pour it on family silver. As far as solving the problem, this government had to go on stage, of course. The first phase of solving the problem was the coalition with our partners Croatian Party of Retirement. Without such a coalition, I still claim there would certainly be no solution. They are a real partner because they were able to protect the interests of their members and the wider rest of the pensioners and other associations because they knew how to reach an optimal solution and because in these negotiations, as our colleague Silvano Hrelja said, they were squeamishing lemon, so here's to the last drop. And that's the right attitude because they protected the interests of those who chose them in this House. The second phase was to sort out the economy from the state budget because without it we would have to sell family silver and patch up the budget. We should, like the previous government, sell family silver and repay debt. And we solved it by developing the economy, by introducing fiscal discipline and thus allowing silver to be passed over to those who created it and that is the important difference between these two governments. Finally, the third problem was to find a technique to restore or make up for these new pensions, not to bring down pension reform, and that was the biggest problem, and we are giving full recognition to the government, Vice President Polancec, Minister Shuker, Minister Vukelic, Prime Minister and others because the pension reform has come to a serious question. If we had fallen into retirement reform, today's generations would have suffered when they retired. This is how we left her. The peace reform is conditio son qua non, a condition without which it cannot live, because today when thirty thousand newborns are born they will have to pay out of their pension work for 46,000 born 60 years ago and this is the problem of Croatia, Europe and the world and pension reform that solves it in the long term and this is just a bridge that will bridge injustice against new pensioners. And therefore the supplement solves the problem of new pensioners, not destroying either the first or second pillars of pension reform and there is the quality of such a solution and therefore should have knowledge, courage, but also the negotiating skills with very serious negotiators such as the Croatian party of pensioners. Of course, there is also a need to add that pension reform is corrected, corrected, and not collapsed, and we have to keep that in mind all the time. The mechanism of the addendum from 4 to 27% starting from 99, those who went to retirement in 99, to those who went to 2010 is not a written money, as one of the sharper SDP speakers said, it is not a written money, it is a very high-quality money that is guaranteed and for which it is to be said both to our friend and colleague from HSP that there is no problem with the payment in the coming years because budget projections justified such investment in pensions. Therefore, the budget of these pensions is based on a fiscal projection for the next five years. So no, we'll be alive and we'll see. There is no danger and there is no need to spread pessimism because of it as you saw in the first quarter of this year and in the second we have shown you that it is possible. Why didn't the previous government solve it even though she knew about the pension debt, even though she knew about the problem of new pensions and all the other problems we had. She did not simply solve the fact that she had not learned to swim, the four-year term ended by drowning and hunting for the straw's last drop of air, so they couldn't make a single row forward. They were carried back by the current, and they had no idea how to solve these big problems. So I congratulate this government once again, and fellow Silvani Hrelja, who said excellently, I must paraphrasise it once more, that he was draining lemon until the last drop. I can say that lemon is now drained, but the smile on the mouth of our pensioners will not be sour but sweet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94161	Five minutes of debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja, club of representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94162	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. It is once again worth stressing at the end of this debate that for us in Croatia, a party to pensioners, the pension system generally rests on solidarity and mutuality, and it is necessary this time to make the system an insurance for old age. However, this insurance for age cannot become the first component but is at this point, and tomorrow must remain the third component as long as the system of generational solidarity is in the foundations of the pension system. So this is also a struggle to recognise a pension based on contributions payments over the years and to make it the first plan of the pension system, i.e. the first and basic postulate of the pension system. Otherwise, I'm going to have to buy a fellow Hebrang a drink for what he said and mentioned and paraphrased my saying more than once, but not just for that, I'm going to have to buy him a drink for a sentence that I like very much, which is that this is an investment in pensioners. If that's what my sincere colleague Hebrang thinks, then it's a big turn in relation to all the policies that the pensioners have treated as a burden to this society so far. I think they're the resource, that they're neatly all their obligations within their ability to pay and that they can be, for example, a whole society. ... Absolutely colleague Vuljanic, an investment in pensioners. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right. Why didn't we accept the SDP proposal? Because he excluded the lowest pensions and because this proposal was an example of the socialization of the pension system, an example of an attempt to correct an injustice is even greater. The model does not, in its foundations, have the payment of contributions as a criterion, the payment of contributions during the year, the payment of contributions from the pension staff. Thus, such a proposal would make a new mistake if we were to give to someone who has never earned a contribution, and this is now reserved in this system for the lowest pensions and disability pensions. Furthermore, the HSS proposal had two major shortcomings and two major shortcomings. First, he asked for a 075 coefficient for all the lowest pensions that would give less rights than existing pensions, and secondly, he sought compensation for new pensioners who did not rest on legal regulations, i.e. not based on the law. And one answer from my colleague Cain. Only with this proposal, by adopting this proposal, pensioners from the region such as Istrias that stand out more are more workingly active than they can get from the pension system back. The socialization of the pension system keeps getting fewer and fewer, and these are earlier proposals, i.e. the SDP proposal I was talking about. And finally, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired on the basis of which the model has been negotiated and these solutions have been negotiated, I would like to thank in advance everyone who will support these proposals of the law, which is what I have seen in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94163	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94164	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague of the Hrelje, who has cancerd that Mr. Cain is against, or opposed. What's this about? Mr. Hrelja, if you had accepted the proposal that Mr. Cain and the IDS Club have proposed, our pensioners would have received a full debt refund, no compensation. So a full repayment of debt would have 50% of pensions relative to wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94165	HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94166	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. Here again, the HDZ club supports what I said at the beginning and on behalf of the same club these two laws, but I feel it is necessary again. That this is one beginning in the pension reform of the correction of those sins left to us by the previous government. Why? Because all people with 30 and over years of retirement time during that government have been reduced the minimum pensions guaranteed. Workers who were jobless and had possible conditions for early retirement had their right to cash compensation abolished and forced that type of criminal, age pension which was also subsequently reduced. It is possible to meet the conditions for a slightly larger retirement pension over time, even by living with a small fee for unemployment. There was no respect for the fact that to go to early retirement is an exception and in fact a free choice of pensioners because of his personal circumstances. By abolishing the right to financial compensation for unemployment for such older workers, leaving early retirement was a clean coercion for a man, a worker who was jobless, and as a result of that leaving early retirement is also a permanent burden with a penalty in the form of a permanent reduction of such pensions of up to 20 percent. That's what's left of the former government and what one part these two laws are correcting, and all these injustices could have been avoided without significant economic needs, and then SDP and its partners would then prove to be political structures with social feelings. Everything else and what we've had to hear today is pure political demagogy. I therefore find it extremely inhumane and unchristian at this point to make noises about possible injustices, and especially not today an opposition SDP that forgets that most of these injustices were directly involved and that many and similar injustices themselves have passed what we have proven several times. Media purchase of the fate of damaged citizens, especially pensioners, and repeating that these laws will also be damaged, in fact they have no right to speak of those who participated or brought unfair and ineligible regulations and now have no right, the moral right to collect political points on the sins they themselves have created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94167	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on these two retirement laws. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU. State Secretary Vera Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94169	The government accepts Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94170	The government accepts this amendment. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 108 votes unanimously adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted. We are going to the next item - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the organic production of agricultural and food products, emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. 742 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. Amendments to the end of the debate, carried out by the Committees on Law, Agriculture and Forestry and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Zdravko Krmek will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94252	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me introduce you to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the organic production of agricultural and food products. I would like to point out here in particular at the outset that at the outset means that we have given an assessment of the situation and basic questions which will be settled by this Law and also by all the consequences that will arise after the adoption of this Law. I would like to begin by saying that in the assessment of the situation, the organic production law of agricultural products was adopted on 31 January 2001, and the basis of this Environmental Production Act is the Council of the European Economic Community Regulation No 2092/91 of 24 June 1991 where it is defined means how and how organic products will be regulated and everything related to them. The provisions of other regulations have also been laid down here in this Act, which further harmonizes all meanings with the implementing acts, and are also adopted under this Act. I would especially like to point out that the Environmental Production Act defines these specific points, which means the basic provisions of organic production and trade. The register of importers, control stations is also defined here, and also because it is particularly important for laboratories that have powers to define exactly which are organic products and which can meet the conditions for obtaining the name and nomenclature under this Act. We have also laid down rules for organic production, storage, transport, packaging, declaration, labelling and also an assessment of the conformity and control of organic production. Also defined are the use of materials for the reproduction of jubes and other resources in organic production. We have also determined this Law means both competent authorities to monitor the process and quality of organic products. We also have certain inspection bodies, the manner of implementation and the powers of the inspector, and ultimately we have defined criminal provisions. It means if there's a violation of this law. I would especially like to point out here that organic production in the world is a trend so that market requirements mean new conditions and an increasing number of end-users, especially in the markets of the European Union, Canada and the United States, have requirements for these organic products. Here I also want to say a few words about how this law is in line with the rules within the European Union. Here we are saying that here we have precisely defined the area, i.e. the application of the definition of this Law, means in this part where it is aligned with the acts of the European Union. We have also established an additional obligation to establish an area for organic beekeeping. It also lays down the conditions for the labelling of organic products. We also have these amendments and the additions of the law so we've abolished all the irregularities in the store so far for a little bit which is also important. We have specifically defined the powers of agricultural inspection here, and we have also determined the management of the agricultural reproductive material database that was created in ecological technology. And we have also defined the obligations of supervisory stations and legal entities that are competent to confirm compliance in organic production. We are also here and one part can thus say unnecessary administrations, we have proposed that it be deleted or abolished, and this is the submission by the manufacturer and that it means that it is simplified to obtain an organic product sign. I would also like to say here that the consequences that will come are that the adoption of this law will not require any additional funds and we will also be able to do so, we will fully comply with all the regulations within the European Union. And also these amendments to the law are part of the negotiations in Chapter XI. Finally, I would like to invite you representatives of the Croatian Parliament to come through a debate on the amendments and additions of this law, to support it and to give your positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94253	Thank you. Agriculture and forestry committees? European integration? Legislative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the Club of HNS Representatives, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94254	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to say at first that the HNS Club will support this bill. And we think that in a relatively correct way he installed everything that was missing in this part of the legislation and a lot of it was missing. If you have carefully read the law, you can see that the objections of the European Union have been in the area of defining the objectives and objectives of the law itself which have not been clear so far. Then better regulation of trade in organic products. And that's where we think a significant shift has been made. Then regulate the use of agricultural reproductive material. It's also embedded in this bill. The conditions for the labelling of the product are then laid down by the eco-product sign. Areas or catastrans were identified, I would say pastures regarding organic beekeeping. There is an absolute mess here in Croatia at the moment. You know how to mix various types of honey, how bees move and without any order I would say is being prepared then and the ultimate product of the mixture of these individual products. Finally, the law states the obligations, precise obligations of supervisory stations and legal persons authorised to carry out the procedure in respect of this law. I would like to say here by my colleagues and colleagues that the European Union is much stricter towards us than the ten countries that entered the European Union three years ago. Now you can see that there is always a requirement for implementation, implementation, implementation. Therefore, there will be very strict monitoring of the clear implementation of these laws. And that's why the HNS Club wants to warn us to be very careful and very careful in this segment and to really bring in all sublegal acts as soon as possible to make that part work. We further consider it necessary to warn clearly this Assembly and the clear media and our citizens that this law should be seen as one large functional whole together with other laws in this area. Here, we can specifically state the Law on genetically modified organisms. You remember your colleague and colleagues, that last year we brought in a clear framework for the use of genetically modified organisms, stating very clearly where to plant, under which conditions to import seeds, under which conditions allow the placing of these products on the market. Clearly here we are now setting a very clear framework for organic production. The aim is of course not to allow any contamination, nor with genetically modified organisms, but not with those agricultural products that will be treated with certain chemical, synthetic means, and these unfortunately still have very, very much on our market. If we clearly go to implementation and if we stick to the letters of the law, our citizens will be able to choose. Choose between organic product, organic product or biological product which are synonym and clearly those products which are not. The role of control stations is also very, very important and we think it is good to clearly define the tasks of control stations and authorised laboratories. There, however, I would like to give my colleagues and colleagues one warning. I don't agree that this job will be easy to do. I am responsible for saying that in Croatia we do not have a lot of experts in this area and I am responsible for saying that our laboratories are not sufficiently equipped to control all those segments and those products that will need to be monitored in order to avoid contamination with unwanted agricultural products. What is very important and what is good here to stress that the European Union is now practically forcing us to control the entire chain of soils on which we will grow the agricultural product to the final product. So the whole I'd say the chain is under surveillance here. And therefore, the work that stands before us is extremely serious, especially given the technological conditions that we have in certain laboratories and I don't see others but those few who are slightly better equipped but I still think that this should go with significant investments. What I have already said several times and in other laws here I will repeat, I believe Mr. Secretary of State that you may suggest in that sense that perhaps what will arrive at the ministry as reports of the control stations themselves, and that is regulated here as an obligation, I believe that such reports should end in the Assembly, not at the plenary session, but we have a board of agricultural parliaments. It would be good for them to have a clear insight into what happens every year with regard to the implementation of this and similar laws because in this way colleagues from our professional working bodies will give us a signal we are satisfied, the reports are correct, we are not satisfied, we believe that the plenary session should return this item to the agenda because these laws are the laws that I call the laws in permanent reading. They change regularly, they have to be complemented, science in this area progresses very quickly. There are growing demands also against us parliamentary representatives, therefore I think that one fit back, one feedback mechanism would have to be ensured in order to be truly informed of what and how this and similar laws are being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94255	Thank you. Club of HDZ MPs, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94256	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the organic production of agricultural and food products. This law was adopted on 31 January 2001 and the basis of the adoption of this Environmental Production Act was the Council Regulation No. 2092/91 of 24 June 1991 on organic production of agricultural products and on the labelling of so-produced agricultural and food products. Although the provisions of this law, which will be amended and amended by adopting these amendments and by supplementing most sublegal acts, contain a concept of all the regulations adopted by the Council of the European Union, in the meantime, thank God for the start of negotiations with the European Union, there has been a screening for the area of agriculture and rural development and the need for further harmonisation of the organic production law of agricultural and food products to allow harmonisation with the EU rules governing the area of organic production. As Mr State Secretary of State has said, the issues which are subject to this law are those which, following the obligations in the section relating to what is most important to us to organic agriculture according to the European Commission prescribed by Council Regulation 2092/91 of 24 June 91, is necessary and what appears to be this law to define the obligations of supervisory stations and legal persons for the certification procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Council Regulation of the European Union. By repealing the current provisions relating to trade in small organic products, organic producers shall be placed in the same position as producers in the Member States of the European Union. The proposed amendments and the proposed provisions of the Act amending and supplementing this law will further comply with the provisions of this law with the provisions laid down in the European Union and are part of the negotiation in Chapter XI. Agriculture and rural development will thus ensure smooth negotiations in those areas by standardising the more detailed provisions missed. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94257	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94258	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. It is precisely this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on organic production of agricultural and food products that came at the right time because, as known, the Environmental Production Act was adopted almost six years ago and the basis for the adoption of this law was the Council Regulation since 1991 on organic production of agricultural products and the labelling of so-called agricultural and food products. The law also incorporated the basic provisions of other relevant regulations on which further harmonisation was followed as follows. It is precisely this bill that pleases us not only as those who will consume products from an ecologically clean area but also because it will allow as many green stamps to be placed on products as possible. A precise area of application and definition will be determined and many areas in the Republic of Croatia that are not polluted, which enjoy the climate and position of convenience such as the Peljesac peninsula for the production of famous wines of Plavac mala, on the island of Hvar Council Sunday but also for the possibility of putting labels on an island product that will come from an ecologically clean area. This proposal will set out precisely the conditions for the labelling of organic products. So far, it's going to get rid of all kinds of things I'd say irregularity and illogicality in the shops of a little bit of organic products, and it's going to open the door so we can really deal with those producers in the developed world, in Europe that we can have products from such ecological areas. Organic production is, in fact, a special system of sustainable agriculture and forestry, which includes plant and animal farming, food production, raw materials and natural fibres, and also such products are certified by the authorised legal person to carry out the organic production process, processes or services on the production unit in organic production in accordance with the basic requirements for organic production. Nomotechnically very clear, neat, precise, unequivocal with provisions that can easily be applied and which is legible for ordinary manufacturers who will be happy to meet such a law. It is very important to point out that agricultural reproductive material produced in organic production must be used. To date, for example, it has been known when the import of fruit wine vaccines was a line that we received and entered infected vaccines that brought us great damage. Of course, these regulations are also precise and can be praised by honey producers for the production that will follow in such areas. Very quickly it will spread out and use production and healing plants to clean the respiratory system. It won't just be possible to abuse this great and valuable effort, the ministry's efforts. Therefore, any praise to the proponent who, despite the number of regulations, has set out the regulation precisely and what is a genetically modified organism? How is this, with the exception of human beings, where genetic material is derived from it in a way that does not appear naturally by mating or by producing... Recombination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All concepts are very precise so that there are fewer and fewer illogical errors in application as well. The correctness of the translation shall also be shown in Article 7 where the certificates to which the food or agricultural product is authorised are subject to a very precise labelling of the eco-product if the certificate is issued for it and produced without the use of GMOs. I believe that the State Institute for Standardisation and Measurement will be replaced by the words of the Croatian Accreditation Agency. The deadlines of the transitional and final are very clear. The fines are also rigorous so that everyone is discouraged in thinking, let alone by trying or knowingly committing an offence, as stated in Article 43a. I therefore believe that the legislative proposal should be complemented and enriched with possible remarks, although it is also very clear with reasons and with additions. I would especially point out in this agricultural reproductive material if you knew where, from where, how do seeds of the whole plant, which parts of the plant can be used at all? This is why it is necessary to vote in favour of this bill [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94259	... Enriched by remarks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94260	Here let me, Mr. President, I would completely agree with what the esteemed representative Peronja said we will really have to change perception of what is an organic product and what are necessary preconditions, but not enough for one product to have the characteristics of an organic product. Very soon already today, we will have to conclude that the organic product is not sufficient only, it is not only clean soil, air, sea or water, but for a quality, competitive organic product it will also need to meet the conditions relating to the high-tech product. It is now seen that in the organisational sense, conditions are set which are not simple, which are very strict and which require the production of organic products to comply with the norms of each professional competitive product today... Organisational aspects of the production of organic products focus particular attention on authorised laboratories, norms, standards, declarations, labelling, production technology, material purity, reliability, predictability, energy aspects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, perception is an ecological product. It is not and will not be just a quality country, clean air and water, but many others in the organisational and technical sense, which will be increasingly demanding and will guarantee a product for which we will really be able to say a product that guarantees quality, which guarantees health, but a competitive product where high added value is achieved. This is very important because competitive products with all characteristics of organic product in the context of high technologies, quality organisations are products that can strengthen the position of the Croatian economy. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94261	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94262	... The law but I would further highlight the importance and supervisory roles of bodies that will have at all over production and maintenance and, in general, in terms of sustainable development of our entire area. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] It is also this law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on organic production of agricultural and food products, which supports the concept of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94263	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94264	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament here at first let me thank all those who took part in this debate in the amendments to this law and here I would like to add a few words, which I think are particularly important, and that is that here you also get additional information on how to enter the register of organic agricultural producers? At first, it means if any of those who want to deal with this organic agricultural production should mean now in this and, in the law that is defined, we have precise terms that are important. First of all, it is an organic production and certificate, which means an identification whereby one who meets all that is required by organic production. So, ultimately, it receives one certificate that can be placed on the market and thus demonstrates that it respects all the conditions that are necessary for the product to be called ecological. In addition, the second step means that the future eco-producer must come to one of the authorised supervisory stations and request the first expert supervision. We have an offer here, so we have a few companies, companies that deal with it. So, it was an inspection from Osijek, the first ecological cooperative from Zagreb, the Croatian forest from Zagreb, the Agri biocert from Omisalj and Bio by technique from Split. Here we heard today in the debate means that control units, or cells, that the ones we have here today are not enough for future organic production. But I think for starters, it means for this first wave that will eventually appear in this new register. It means that they will be able to meet all the needs of those who want to be included, or to enter into this register. Once the control station has carried out that first expert supervision it delivers means to the person who has applied for his opinion and then it is necessary to submit complete documentation which is defined means in the amendments and additions to this law, and here we want to especially point out that the one who will eventually receive it, means that the satisfactory conditions can be entered into the register and that will be possible and highlighted. It means at market shelves and at fairs that promote organic production, and also what is most important of all means that they will have a secure market. I would particularly like to point out here that the great demands of the European Union are precisely in organic production, and here we think that the chance of our domestic farmers, agricultural producers, is to organise themselves and means to meet all that is defined by this law and ultimately to get this certificate and contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to the development of agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94265	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the organic production law of agricultural and food products. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Can I help you with the amendment of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94267	They're taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94268	... All of them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94269	Everyone. From 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94270	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? With 97 votes for, 4 abstentions, 6 against the adopted proposed law. We are going to the next point - Public Protection Act against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 741 Proposer of the Law is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health, European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Applicable Public Protection Act against infectious diseases that are prescribed and identified infectious diseases and whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia as well as the rights and obligations of units of local self-government, health institutions, and legal and physical persons in the protection of the public against infectious diseases. It was created in the first half of 1992, and at that time it was a law based on modern principles of monitoring, suppressing and preventing the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases. The list of infectious diseases with monitoring and the prevention and prevention of the occurrence and spread of interest in the Republic of Croatia contained 62 infectious diseases. The development of medical science has enabled new knowledge and recognition of a series of new and extremely dangerous infectious diseases, as well as diseases that have changed their epidemiology as resistant tuberculosis, hospital infections and other diseases, whose monitoring and monitoring are of paramount importance. The development of international transport allows the transfer and introduction of the most dangerous causes of infectious diseases to any area. Thus, with the additional threat of bioterrorism, the prevention and prevention of infectious diseases in most parts of the world declared a public health priority. Taking into account these risks, the European Union has, as a priority in protecting the health of its inhabitants, identified the prevention of infectious diseases and regulated them by a series of regulations. Multi-annual application of the applicable law, its analysis, and the observed shortcomings, numerous changes in the legal and sub-legislative regulations of the jurisdiction of the Sanitary Inspectorate, including legislative changes in other areas such as breaking legislation, the system of state administration, environmental protection, have resulted in a real need for the creation of new, modern and European standards of a tailored Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. The proposed law aims to fully establish a common system of control of infectious diseases already taking place in cooperation with the European Union and in accordance with the International Sanitary Regulation. The aim of the law is also to make the Sanitary Inspectorate more effective, as is the request made by the European Union to the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the law, this has been done primarily in the expansion of the list of infectious diseases which is required to be reported to the epidemiological service. The proposed law lays down infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention of significant interest in the Republic of Croatia as well as health against epidemic measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. As part of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 28, the European Commission has, despite the fact that the supervision of infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia in terms of the fundamental principles of work, and the legislative regulation has largely in line with the regulation of the European Union, set out the necessary additional harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. There are a number of European Union regulations in the field of consumer health and safety. Since 1985, there has been a so-called European Union law. the new principle of technical harmonisation, which sets out only general objectives and basic safety standards in the Directives. They are the cornerstones of the protection of consumer health and safety and of the Commission's 98th decision, the decision of the 96th Commission and the 2002-2003 Commission decision. The adoption of this law, which implements and regulations of the European Union, will surely guarantee the uniform application of legal regulations, better and better quality organisation, coordination and control of the work of all participants in the prevention and prevention of infectious diseases and the implementation of anti- epidemi measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94273	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal for a law on the protection of the public from infectious diseases, with the final proposal for a law that is in line with EU legislation. In fact, the European Union has set as a priority in protecting the health of its inhabitants the prevention of infectious diseases, and its prevention is regulated by a series of regulations. Until recently, it was believed that infectious diseases would be overcome and that they would be no longer particularly after a large wide range of antibiotics, after chemotherapy and after effective vaccine activity. But we know from experience that when one infectious disease disappears, we have another in sight, and the appearance of another. Infectious diseases are caused by living microorganisms that have become more dangerous today, they are more virulent strains, they have become resistant to those powerful antibiotics that we spend today, and their change will contribute to further and climateal and ecological and other changes. We are facing new agents and microorganisms in the human pathology of sars, from AIDS, from trionic disease, from bovine spondiform encephalopathy, from the fever and diseases that changed their epidemiology, as the secretary said from resistant tuberculosis to hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital infections and to the occurrence of bacteria found in hospitals that no longer respond to antibiotics. The man was able to produce the weapon of the most effective mass extermination of living things and life in general. So we have to think about bio-terrorism. For years, there has been a threat of biological terrorism to biological agents that are easily distributed and transported across borders and airports. Here we do not have an early warning system that biological aerosol or contaminated food is detected before infection or indoxification occurs, so education of people especially those who need to first respond to the example in health, and that is where we can mention both the military and the police, increases the effectiveness of protective measures. The prevention and prevention of infectious diseases has been declared a priority, public health work in the most developed part of the world. The aim of this law is to fully establish control of infectious diseases. Many developed European countries have recently introduced specialisations in infectology with opening and new departments. However, I must point out that in the last term when we witnessed almost the closure of the infectious departments, it was indeed prevented by the large involvement of the Infectious Diseases Clinic and Professor Tatjana Jeren, because it was seen how much that clinic contributed to the prevention of AIDS and warning of bovine spongephoric encephalopathy, which we don't even know today how many people are going to get sick in the future, which is really about the length of the incubation, because if a brief incubation is an example of five years for this disease, only a few hundred under quotes, and if it is 23-30 years long, the number of patients could increase to 150,000. Comparing with the old 1992 law, the number of infectious diseases increased from 62 to 82 as recorded. However, in the event of the danger of infectious diseases, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is empowered to establish the important interest of the Republic of Croatia in the supply of goods, services and works to prevent and control infectious diseases. If the need is imposed by this law, emergency procurement of vaccines without public procurement is enabled. We know that public procurement takes a long time without the infectious disease asking about public procurement, but it's about a time period of months or a few days. At the proposal of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Minister of Health declares the outbreak of infectious diseases, namely the danger of epidemics, and determines the infected or endangered area. The law provides that the Republic of Croatia, the County, municipalities, cities and the City of Zagreb are required to ensure the implementation and measure of the protection of the public against infectious diseases with the development of the programme, and at the proposal of the Public Health Office. The programme must be prescribed for all units of local self-government as proposed in one amendment. Specific regulations regulate veterinary activity and disinfection, disinfection and deratiation. What is really positive is what the HDZ club praises, it is that clarity which defines the role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the County Institute for Public Health and all details in reporting, in detecting infectious diseases, ways of transfer, prevention and suppression. For the first time, the competent public health services must ensure the continued preparedness of doctors, epidemiologists, as well as compensation for carrying out these preparednesses. Of course, we should be proud to remember our visionary who has been editing and determining how public health and public health services should work, and this is our Professor Dr. Andrija Stampar, who was also the first president of the World Health Organization, and his ideas were indeed accepted worldwide and I am speaking from this place with a drink about this man. Otherwise, the reporting of infectious diseases is generally diagnosed, and the laboratory microbiological confirmation of the disease is subsequently reported after receiving the results of laboratory studies in this Act and diseases not reported on a diagnosis are defined, but after laboratory confirmation. Of these diseases, it may be true that these are congenital rubellar embryopathies, syphilis, AIDS deficiency syndrome, HBS antigen carriers... HCV virus, or antibody evidence, as well as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The antibody and carrier of the TIFI salmonella. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We would also suggest that Article 26 discussed at the Croatian Democratic Community club. It is said in point 8 that health supervision is carried out against persons coming from countries where malaria, cholera, viral haemogarygic fevers or other diseases are present in the Republic of Croatia by means of an international contract that is the Republic of Croatia. And point 9. where health supervision is said to be carried out against persons arriving in the Republic of Croatia as asylum seekers, asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary or temporary protection. ... Point 10. where health supervision is carried out against persons who come to the Republic of Croatia for education, professional training or temporary work as well as members of their families who come together to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that this article 10 should be deleted because all of this is stated in paragraphs 8 and 9. Finally, the aim of the Law is indeed to fully establish a common system of control of infectious diseases and to allow for more effective treatment of sanitary inspections. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the adoption of this Act is indeed in the interest of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the harmonisation of legislation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94275	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94276	Mr. President, in order not to make a mistake, allow one explanation. Article 26 of the Law in question determines who is subject to health supervision and, now, in points 8, 9 and 10, there is no compliance and clearly one clarification is required. In particular, point 8. determines people from countries where signs of infectious type disease and listed malaria, cholera, viral haemorrhagic fever or others are recorded. However, Article 9 is also for asylum seekers. What sub-point 10 refers to is actually citizens who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are staying in Croatia for temporary schooling or professional training, and who can come from countries where we have no or no doubt, but as such we do not have any records. That could be, I wouldn't count the states. I know that when you look at a specific article like this, then people think of it as strangers from the state of our environment. However, the countries of both South America and the countries of the Asian continent and the African continent should also be seen here, where there is no record that these countries therefore appear, which does not mean that these diseases cannot be. It should also be noted that in times of large population migration today you have a situation that in some period of time, shorter or longer people from third countries have become citizens of the European Union. Thus, if people in that status were to come to the Republic of Croatia they would be, they would come from the European Union countries, but they could also be conditional carriers of the diseases of those third countries. For this reason, we consider this point 10 to be the one that allows health supervision of the truckers... and to other persons that protection should be extended and thus carried out, and not contrary to the provisions of the European Union law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94277	Thank you. HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94278	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is what the law has come to our benches in an emergency procedure, but it seems to me that it has also gone through the ministry in an equally fast and urgent procedure due to numerous failures. I'm very glad that our Committee of Legislatives is as I always have to say high. They rightly tried to correct many language errors, nomotechnical errors. Of course there's no section of expertise, and that's where I'd like to try to help out a little bit. We in our club have made one analysis as far as we have arrived clearly within this short period of this Law, so we would ask the Secretary of State to follow perhaps here some suggestions and to respect them because we believe that they will not change anything, except to improve the quality of the text. Here we can start with Article 2 on page 4, paragraph 1 and follow the febrile state. Many of these diseases have nothing to do with the febrile state. So it could be, and it follows them in most cases in a febrile state or I don't know how it's going to formulate but it certainly doesn't stand. Second, the second point would be Article 3. The very beginning of the article states: "According to this Law of Infectious Disease whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia is considered.", they have nothing to consider "are:." We don't, you know? So that means we're insecure, we don't know what it is, where it belongs, etc. According to this Law of Infectious Disease whose prevention and prevention of interest in the Republic of Croatia are two points. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We understand why January 31st, and probably related to the budget etc., but we remain practically uncovered. It's in January. It's in January. It's in January. It would be good, therefore, if this were indeed to coincide with the calendar year, not that we were missing financial coverage in that current year in one month. Then, on page 8, pardon above, that is, the title in front of Article 10 of the general measures for the prevention and control of infectious diseases. If you go through these measures then you'll see that this is all about measures to prevent infectious diseases. These are preventive measures. We should therefore distinguish prevention as prevention, general measures that society clearly takes from regulation of water quality, from waste regulation and everything else. It's got nothing to do with anti-epileptic measures when the epidemic's already breaking out. Restraining means there's an outbreak. Let's go stop her. Let's turn it off, let's stop it from spreading. You won't find any measures here related to the management of infectious diseases. That's why this title or subtitle is already, and it doesn't seem to fit the text content that follows. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The eighth is all the way to the bottom of the site where it stands on the proposal of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Minister sets out microbiological laboratories of legal and physical persons performing health activities, etc. And in paragraphs 3 and 4 it stands. A laboratory study of the cause of infectious diseases is carried out in microbiological laboratories of legal and physical persons performing health activities as well as in the following paragraph. I don't think those two paragraphs 3 and 4 are practically necessary because they're just bringing some kind of confusion because the minister has to determine by his decision what labs will be responsible for doing the job. So try to sort out that 4th, 5th and 8th item. Just a little bit more. Then there is still, in the 7th paragraph, the diagnostics of rare, highly productive and dangerous infectious diseases are carried out in the microbiological laboratories of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. This is hard to grow. Many of these factors in Article 3 are incriminating. I can't culture at all. So here you need to find a solution without standing like this because someone's gonna laugh at us that we're classified... organisms, and in the text we refer to those who are allegedly hard to grow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not that they're hard but they're impossible to grow. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of This third line, suppressing the spread of infectious diseases in traffic. And now ships and things like that. Ships and so forth unnecessarily. I'm guessing ships are also means of transport. Then we have to get the train and the truck and I don't know what. We think it's also possible to throw out, that extension of that sentence. What you've now explained to Mr. Secretary of State, pages 8, 9 and 10 of Article 26, I can accept your argument. I agree that it wasn't a good relationship between those points. However, in that case, points 9 and 10 should be complemented, perhaps with the text. If it comes from countries where, etc. You understand. Because it's funny if someone comes from Hungary and looks for asylum in Croatia, now they'll be under this regime, which doesn't matter. I'm sorry for the expression. But if it comes from countries and then you know what countries I mean, where there's going to be these diseases, you understand. So there is a possibility that he might seek asylum or come to us for schooling from a country where there is three times better health conditions than in us. And now I'm gonna make him go through the tests, which is gonna be a little funny. The Swedes will be a little surprised either by Hungarians or by others. You understand. So we have to be correct here and say exactly what area these people should come from to carry out such surveillance on them, health care, right? Now page 19 of Article 37. Health care personnel. It seems to me that this article is a little too closely regulated. It only treats health care in the area of those people, people who are engaged in food and food and transport, or in personal hygiene. I believe that health care should be caught in much, much wider areas and a lot more people than just those who deal with food and who deal with the means to maintain personal hygiene. I also noticed that the Legislative Committee asked for the word "health care" to be replaced by "health training". I'm not sure if the fellow doctors there are enough here in the hall can agree that it's synonym. That's not a synonym to me. Therefore, I could not agree with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, there is another solution to be found, not to make such a change of text, because then we will have even more incorrect. We usually use medical care professionals. So I think it's a more correct term than changing it into health training. But here why is it limited only to those who work with food or with means to maintain personal hygiene? I don't get it. Further to Article 47(4), where the minister, may also order special security measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. Now I'm going to the fourth point. Therefore, in the case of a ban on the movement of persons or restrictions on movement in infected or directly endangered areas. It's all right. But the last item of that 47th article says. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is a very slippery one area. A very slippery area because practically many will be able to claim compensation. We will declare an area and the minister will declare it. All of a sudden, they're gonna have to go there and talk to their business partners and you're gonna have to pay the fees. So we help people not to get infected, not to get sick, stay healthy, and we'll pay them back. There's little you need to find some sort of modality that will satisfy both. I know what the plan is. We get it at the club. But we think you should try that part of the text to be a little more careful. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day That's on page 26. The funeral and transfer of dead people who have not been buried and died of black prism, diphtheria, cholera, plague, typhoid, viral haemorrhagic fever (Ebola, Lassa, Marburg, denge, yellow fever and vCJ). So the variants of Crosoyak's disease. I don't know how that variant of Crosoyak's disease got into this group of the most contagious diseases. I really don't know what happened. It seems to me she's neither guilty nor debtor has been found here. Then we have another one, and this is the final comment of article 68 on page 28. In fact, you reminded us of something that has been smoldering in your ministry for years and cannot be solved, which is basically, you see how important it is throughout the law and the European Union is asking us that the profile of sanitary engineers, the sanitary profession, not only of the medics. So there are graduate sanitary engineers in Croatia who can certainly help us solve a number of problems that are related to this and many other laws, similar laws. We think that it is indeed time for them to position themselves within the healthcare service and to clearly help the European Union to include them in preserving the health of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94279	Thank you. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the honourable representative. I would like to ask for some answers, at least some clarifications that I might now give on this basis. First... Article 2 is not an indication of why, therefore, the concept of a higher number of diseases whose cause is unknown. [[You can't hear it.]] So that's where the protection was founded. Not every infectious disease has to be followed by febility, absolutely, especially those on the list. However, if we had vague febrileity, so if we had febrileity and we didn’t have a clear sign of infectious disease then we would also carry out measures and that was why it was classified in Article 2. As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't comment because some things may be really nomotechnic, so as in the article, they're considered to be or may be more unsuspecting. I'd rather turn to this expert part of the debate and I'll accept that maybe this is better. But specifically, for example, in Article 5, when it is said, it means during the calendar year. However, programmes that are being implemented are being implemented for a year. Therefore, if all programmes were to be implemented by 31 January then they are valid again until 31 January, so that in that part itself we do not find that there would be any problem in the implementation and we agree with you that this is very much related to the implementation of the measures with fiscal meaning part, or at the cost of the cost to go. In Article 14 as to whether or not laboratory reference was necessary. It is true that the minister would use a solution to determine microbiological laboratories. However, these two paragraphs state that the cause is given in microbiological laboratories on the basis of which the minister will adopt the solution and appeal to those items. Now whether they are important or irrelevant, however, it can be acknowledged that this law was done in a way that made it clear enough. Now, whether that item is such an surplus or not is certainly not the opposite, and I think it might as well stay that way. As for Article 26, where asylum is mentioned, we may not have said enough. We don't want to reconsider a thing. We could say to make a distinction so let's say the Member States of the European Union if someone comes from these countries is one story, if coming from third countries is another story. However, it is slowly becoming a discriminatory provision because, yet, the whole world and all countries are making enhanced measures to protect against infectious diseases because absolute protection is obviously not available and that we can at some point seek or set certain measures for us and for the citizens of the European Union, I think that we can because these measures we prescribe are measures concerning and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that way I don't see any difference so others can't. And especially because we have the Asylum Act, where Article 8 or Article 8, respectively, I apologize, it has defined and the idea was that it defines which diseases from the countries when it comes and Article 10 defines for people from all countries. He expands, he doesn't kind of rule out, and by one terminology, it's by alignment. But I'm saying, it's also something that can lead to a wider debate. As regards Article 38, I agree that it cannot be the same between health care and health training. However, the purpose of Article 38 was not to say that health education would be conducted only for persons referred to in Article 37 but was to prescribe who would conduct health education for the persons listed in Article 37. Therefore, health education as such is also needed by the wider public, and thank God would be if he were properly implemented. But Article 38 says that the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Department of Public Health County are therefore conducting health education for persons referred to in Article 37. So if we go like this, then I think it's absolutely acceptable. As regards Article 47, you also quoted the item to implement the public security measure and where you stated that it belonged to compensation. But the following item also says that the amount of compensation as well as the criteria for fixing the fee means the criteria for when and under what conditions the minister is to pay, with the agreement of the finance minister. I'll just remind you of a recent event two years ago suspected of so, confirmed actually bird fever. Certain measures have been taken, measures were unfortunately fatal for animals and were then made possible and this law allows for compensation in that part. And that was the meaning of that article. Article 59, why did Creuzfeld-Jacobs' disease get in? Because it has fallen under this harmonisation because it is also in the list of diseases in this place and in the members of the European Union. And whatever it does not belong, I agree with you on medically listed diseases, but it has just been introduced because there are certain restrictions on transport, meaning persons who died and there are special regulations and as such it is listed therefore among these but are listed other infectious diseases listed in Article 3 of this paragraph. So the disease is specifically indicated. I agree with you absolutely and it is known that there is already a change in the Health Activity Act where certain professions will take place, so there will be a change of professional titles in the course of alignment and also some professions will be classified in health care activities and you also know that the Health Activity Act has prescribed that healthcare professionals are those who pass a professional exam at the Ministry of Health. In this way, sanitary engineers did not fall under medical care. However, as the criteria of the expert examination are and so is the need to abolish, so the new criteria will be set which professions are included in the medical activity because we agree with you that sanitary engineers absolutely have their place. I hope with these few I've given at least acceptable arguments to the objections to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94281	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94282	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us a Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases that identify infectious diseases whose prevention and control is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And we have seen that the list of infectious diseases spoken of in this law has been increased by 20 diseases. The rights and obligations of units of local self-government, health institutions and legal and physical persons in the protection of the public against infectious diseases are established. Measures shall be taken to protect the public against infectious diseases and, of course, to monitor the implementation of those measures. In the last decade, we have been faced with new infectious diseases such as SARS, AIDS, legionnary disease, bird flu, and diseases that have changed their epidemiology, which are resistant tuberculosis, hospital infections and other diseases. International transport has enabled the introduction of the most dangerous causes of infectious diseases into any area as well as threats to bioterrorism and the prevention and prevention of infectious diseases and in the most developed part of the world as a public health priority. The Republic of Croatia has a long tradition of good preventive practice, as well as good practices in the prevention and prevention of infectious diseases. However, a number of years of application of the applicable law has seen shortcomings. Changes were also observed. There has been a change in the legal and sublegal regulations of the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection including, of course, legislative changes in other areas, resulting in a real need to draft a new law, more modern and adapted to European standards. I would briefly refer to certain provisions of this law, as well as to Article 5, where it is proposed that the annual programme of measures to protect the public against infectious diseases be determined for, each year, for the area of the county or the city of Zagreb. From my long-standing practice in the sanitary inspection and at the Institute of Public Health, I find it not a good solution but it is necessary for each unit of local self-government to adopt its own programme of annual measures, an annual programme of measures to protect the public from infectious diseases. Of course, on the proposal of the County Institute of Public Health because each unit of local self-government is specific in its own space, according to facilities, according to sources, by water, by possible sources of infection so that the county itself does not have the opportunity to tell the local self-government unit, to order it to implement certain measures in its area. So here's why my colleague and I have also proposed an amendment that we hope will be adopted. General measures to prevent and combat infectious diseases have been developed in more detail than in the old law. They were developed and more systematically by means of decided procedural measures. It is good that they are included in the general measures of swimming water, and I hope that soon the rules for swimming water with sea water will be adopted, which in practice is a problem in assessing the correctness of the pool water filled with sea water. Early detection of the source of infection and the pathways of transmission of infection. For the purpose of early detection of the source of infection and the pathways of transmission of the infection in this proposal, public health institutions are in some ways more than their authority and responsibility and mandatory preparedness and preparedness compensation is introduced because there is no practicality in small institutions and preparedness. Or that there is but no compensation is given which presents a particular problem in the performance of these jobs. It also harmonizes with the trend of developing private health interests, so far it has not been well clarified in the old law to deliver reports on the reporting of infectious diseases, but this proposal requires that these are county institutions, or the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so that information on the occurrences of certain infectious diseases is always available to us and to be accurate because it happens often on the path of loss and that we do not have accurate records. Infectious disease reporting. A newspaper was also introduced. So far, infectious diseases have been reported based on diagnosis and in exceptional cases only laboratory tests have been carried out according to a given indication, as assessed by a general physician or epidemiologist. However, it is now expected to be reported on the basis of a diagnosis and the laboratory certificate is subsequently reported after receiving the results. It has also been established that, which diseases are not reported based on diagnosis but only after laboratory confirmation is a good solution. There's no doubt when you're looking for a lab certificate and when you're not. This bill also defines the stronger role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and County Institutes of Public Health which is good and what these institutions have earned in terms of tradition, experience, organization and the results with which we are proud and envied and much more developed countries than we are. So here I would finish my presentation and I would say that this bill I think that the objectives set will really be achieved and these are the establishment of a common system of surveillance of infectious diseases and the more effective conduct of the sanitary inspection. I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of Doric to share with him a little bit of an opinion on the health care he was talking about and I think we should expand it. I don't think it should be extended, that he's wide enough, to a sufficient number of activities he's set up and there's no need for that education to spread to some new activity. For indeed all those who are involved in the production and transport of living goods are covered by the care and beauty of faces and bodies. So it's been introduced for those who haven't passed secondary education like a tattoo where some courses get permission to carry a tattoo. Therefore, it covers all activities that could potentially result in the person’s work jeopardizing the health or transfer of a specific infectious disease. So with that education, they'll be taught. On occasion, they will be taught how to avoid these situations. Here, in one word, I would further point out that this is indeed a good, modern law and that it will achieve all the goals set and, of course, I will vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94283	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, right at the beginning, I'm going to tell the Bill on Public Protection against Infectious Diseases with the final bill of law of course I'm going to support and join my colleagues who said that really this law regulates this issue in a very good way. I can't look back on the current law that was passed 15 years ago, in 1992, and that really was a very good law, that according to that law, in the current Law on the Protection of Public People against Infectious Diseases that we have successfully solved all the problems that have been encountered in this area, and that is best confirmed by our last major mishap in this area, which is a bird flu where we have actually received all the recognitions from the relevant experts. How did we handle it? Of course, every law has its own time and is good at the time when it is passed. However, the laws must monitor both the situation and the development. So we can't say that the changes in economic, economical plans in this area didn't reflect here especially when the borders are open, when international transport is so intense, when the population migration is as large as it is legal, so we have more or less of a problem, it's illegal. And of course, if the European Union were to ask us to simply comply with EU legislation, not only for the sake of the European Union but for our own sakes, for our own sake. Epidemiology and clinical images as causes of infectious diseases have changed widely in the meantime, and 62 infectious diseases have been regulated by law since 1992. Here we see in the article of the third of this law that they are on the list of 82 infectious diseases. It's not just this law that makes changes. I would not say, and I would agree with my colleague in improving, but no significant changes regarding the measure of public protection against infectious diseases how general measures to prevent and combat infectious diseases where it has itself cited the importance of certain things that have not been covered by the current law to be extended. In addition, Article 12 of this Law regulates specific measures to prevent and control infectious diseases through early detection of the source of infection and the pathways of spread through laboratory testing of infectious diseases, through reporting. And, of course, the newspaper that my colleague said earlier is exactly regulated when an infectious disease based on diagnosis is reported, and when a laboratory certificate is required. However, all of these are given greater meaning to the Public Health Services and the County Public Health Offices. I think there are greater powers on them, but there is greater responsibility and here, this law states that the Public Health Services must now ensure a continuous, permanent readiness of specialist teams, and they have specifically defined these specialist teams. However, they also obliged the Institute of Public Health to provide additional financial resources for this purpose. This law requires that we say in one way regulated and public procurement that cannot be regulated under the terms of pandemics and epidemics under the Public Procurement Laws, but are given the authority of the Public Health Services and the County Public Health Institutes that, under such circumstances, they can and means by direct contract, obtaining the relevant materials. The most common is vaccines for immune prophylaxis that are necessary under these conditions. Of course, this is also about transportation, isolation, treatment of the sick, enforcement of prevention and mandatory prevention measures, or disinfection, deratisation. Then, it's about controlling the callionics. However, Mr. Doric was the supervision of health care he mentioned that health education should be distinguished from health training. In any case, we know what the definition of education is, and what is the definition of health training. Immunisation, seroprophylaxis and chemophylaxis have been regulated and major changes in this law compared to those of '92. There isn't a year. Of course, with all these amendments and all these amendments submitted by the Committee on Law, I hope that this law will greatly contribute to improving the protection of the public against infectious diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94285	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94286	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases with a final bill that would in fact be due to the new infectious diseases of those who occur outside the institutions... and those who appear within institutions, as well as threats to bioterrorism, which has been declared a single, one-needed, and these problems are one of the priority and public-health work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also concentrate on these two things in my discussion which will be one way shorter than I have time actually available, and these are hospital infections because it is close to me because of the work I do, and also what has led to a lot of controversy in the world today and is spending enormous material resources. It's a threat to this bioterrorism. Once in history, we actually first encounter one systematic care for hospital infections somewhere in the 18th century when a regulation was passed for British hospitals. He voted no matter how much this is here today, in fact, in one way, it said: Every patient on arrival gets a clean sheet, the sheet changes once every three weeks, two patients cannot be in the same bed except exceptionally. So that's what it used to be. Today, when the number of hospital beds has increased dramatically since the 19th century, and thus the number of surgical procedures, and thus the number of infections, there has been a very different situation where we now have this kind of cause of hospital infections where when we get from the laboratory results, we actually run out of words because we know that many of them are almost insolvent, not to mention now certain strains,... and so on. the causes which are hardly responding to any antibiotic other than those of the third and fourth groups which are actually used solely on the basis of the opinion of certain commissions in only these strictly isolated cases. [[You don't understand.]] What I'm saying is that these disease infections are not then or now, regardless of the new measures they're taking, they can't be eliminated. They can only shrink. So for this reason, as well as colleagues who have discussed so far, I will support it because this law contains certain parts of this law, because it has a modern approach to solving this problem and thus a modern approach to solving this problem of hospital infections, because we know that all medical institutions in particular have committees for hospital infections that have their own tasks which will now have this form of this law, where many things will be more detailed and more precise in their work in quality supervision, namely targeted supervision of certain phenomena that occur in the hospitals themselves, and thus we will help the country itself in a certain way, the health system itself, because we will thus prevent the economic consequences of these hospital infections themselves. What are the economic consequences? So they see what they see as a delay in the patient’s layoff and thus an increase in the price of stay. The increased cost of treatment due to increased use of medicinal products including newer antibiotics, repeated surgical procedures, etc. The increased number of searches, the increased cost of control of infection, and let's not forget they are often subject to lawsuits and wider socioeconomic costs. So here's why, and also because it's actually in the modern world now, we're increasingly facing bio-terrorism. I remember about 10 years ago, 15 years ago, American military experts carried out a project involving a multidisciplinary project involving historians and biologists, medics, etc. And they finally came to the conclusion that in all the known wars and conflicts so far, there were more victims of infectious diseases than conventional weapons. They took into account all the inflammations, infections caused by the wound, various injuries, etc. If we take into account that so far there has been no recognized open war action with the biological weapons of one force at another, any on any other, then this above data must frighten any man who is still understood in this data that is being presented. And I'd like to warn you of just one more fact, which is that there are often references to warfare or terrorism to genetically altered bacteria or viruses. It is probably the greatest danger today, much greater than the abuse of genetic engineering methods for civil purposes. I am pleased that this proposed law in its articles 47 to 56 has also regulated security measures to protect the public from infectious diseases and I believe that by applying it, consistently applying both security measures and what articles 55 and 56 deal with quarantine issues that are contained in the restriction of freedom of movement, and we know that the Republic of Croatia has a rich history of surveillance of infectious diseases and the introduction of quarantines since those times in Dubrovnik and the first quarantine that took place in this area. I think that with this law and the determination of measures to prevent and contain infectious diseases, Croatia has received a very high-quality law for which I will give my vote as well as the others who participated in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94287	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here in Croatia was the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases from 92 and 93, which regulated the issue of infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention is of interest to the Republic of Croatia as well as obligations and legal and physical persons in the handling of such conditions. And I have to say that when we talk about Croatia that we've dealt well with it so far, so let's just remember the war, we didn't have an epidemic during the war and our wounded didn't die or die very rarely from some infectious disease. Here, colleague Caparin pointed out in her statement that the infection is now a re-specialization and that these suits survived. And I remember that time when it was really doubtful that all these infectious departments were abolished, and good news that it didn't happen, because it's just the infectious disease in all of us that causes one fear, one fear, because we always think that it can get out of control and that it can affect a large number of people, so the fight against infectious diseases is actually being set up and declared a priority public-health problem. We have, say, only here in my county, we've met with both trihinel and we've successfully solved it. Then, there were speeches, and we know, we remember that we had anti-tuberculous dysphansers, that this was later the need for them stopped, but I'd say that it still exists with us, and here in our X-ray diagnostics have warned that there is also a need for special supervision and such patients as well as their environment. As far as they're concerned, a colleague looked back at hospital infections. This is certainly an important problem, because these infections are often resistant, drug-resistant, they cause economic damage due to expensive treatment, treatment extensions, and I would say that unfortunately they also cause fatal outcomes, that we are not just talking about complications of treatment and that, therefore, is certainly an actual problem. There are also new infectious diseases from SARS, AIDS, arterial diseases, bird flu, so let's just remember the bird flu. Although a small number of people die, many other diseases die significantly more than cardiovascular, malignant, even from the thickness or anything else, but when it comes to infectious diseases, it causes great attention, large precautions, and this is spent billions and billions of euros in their prevention. Although we have so far had a law that was quite good, and although the situation with us in terms of infectious diseases was good, there was a good condition, however, the need to remove some of the shortcomings of the existing law as a alignment with the acquiss of the European Union has been shown, so here the promoter had the need to propose a law that would be modern with European standards and which would be in line with the gains of the European Union. The proposed task of the law is to establish what is really important common system of control of infectious diseases and also more effective practice of sanitary inspection. In this Law, as I pointed out in advance, new infectious diseases are emerging, so it was also necessary to extend the list from 62 to 82 infectious diseases that are of particular interest to the population of Croatia. And here were the talks on Article 5 that it was not only that the annual programme of protection measures was drawn up in the area of the county, but that it was in the field of local self-government units certainly when it came to some measures such as disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, sure that local self-government units in such matters could still see it better than the county, but also the fact that many units of local self-government when you look at our municipalities and they do not have a staff that could put it together and suggest it. Therefore, it is certain that the Institute of Public Health should play a key role in this. It is good that this Law strengthens the role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, that its tasks are more clear and precise, and so far we have had that preparedness in the Croatian Institute for Public Health, but it is now clearer and more specific that it is mandatory to prepare as well as to pay for it. Here is one of the meanings of change, referring to public procurement in case of need. Here we know how often it is politicized, especially when it comes to public procurement, and then there's a public problem about everything, so it's good that in such cases it can also be deviated from the procurement process. I'm still going to look back at a few articles in this Law. Here’s a good thing for health supervision, meaning that Article 26 here, although health supervision and health care are often there for those who are being treated or who have to take care of it, any health care means resisting, there may be an opinion that it may be imposed on them only for some profit or something like that. However, there is indeed an objective need for this, and it is good that health supervision is carried out on persons who perform jobs and participate in the production and transport of personal hygiene funds, not only what we have said groceries and that, but personal hygiene, personal beauty of the face and body that is increasingly applied, means that they work on the tasks of bringing colors, foreign bodies into the skin and mucous membranes, because we know that here are all these tattoos and it is all more and then there are sometimes doubts that there are precisely some serious diseases and deadly diseases that can be infected in such a way. As indicated, it is also necessary to conduct health supervision on persons, natural persons who are self-employed in the provision of hygiene, public care, public baths, wellnesses that are recently extremely popular, centres, cosmetic salons, barbershops, hair salons, massage salons, manicure salons, pedicure salons. So everything that's been here lately is pretty much up-to-date. In health care, I think it should be said that it is still a health care person, not a medical ability or something that is trained. I think it is a good thing that these include persons who perform jobs in the production and transport of personal hygiene, again and those individuals who independently carry out the service, care, beauty of the face, body, the work of bringing colors, foreign bodies into the skin and mucous membranes as I have pointed out, means that because of the increasingly popularization of such services and the use of such services and the possibility of contagion. Here, when it comes to immunization of seroprofilax and chemophylaxis, it's really been done and it's been successfully implemented so far. We know that we are many diseases, that we have a good fissure in many diseases, that many have been eradicated, but new ones also appear. Here is now in the World Health Organization guidelines for vaccination against Hepatitis B virus in healthcare professionals. We've been doing this a long time. So in some things we're safe in both schools and in health care, and my colleague is really in school, and I missed saying that, so that's where we really went out front. When it comes to this article in 47, there was a talk of compensation. I think the fee is that the fee is as proposed and should be left because we are, because it refers to articles 2 to 4, which is the establishment of a quarantine, a ban on travel to a country where there is an epidemic, a disease. Then ban the movement of persons, limited movement in infected and directly endangered areas. Because we've seen a lot of infectious diseases if there's no real compensation here when we've had trihinosis or what or bird flu, if it doesn't compensate for the damage to those affected by it, then they won't report it, then there's a danger that such diseases are also ineffectively suppressed. That is why I believe that these proposed changes mean expanding the list and strengthening the role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health with this possibility of obtaining, a derogation from public procurement in these cases that this law will make this law even more modern, more efficient and also adapted to the gains of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94289	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94290	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I think that despite all this speed that's happening in lawmaking in the House, the day before yesterday this law was passed by the government today, it's already here for us to discuss here in an emergency procedure. Of these 30 laws that have passed through the debate almost without even seeing what is actually happening, we can easily get some things out of our heads and that even the desire to see it all end well and as soon as we, in fact, see no less problems from the big picture. There was talk here today about bird flu, there was talk about bioterrorism, there was talk about what was undoubtedly important. This law is indeed necessary to adopt it with the European Union. But I think when we talk about all the needs that the law wants to achieve and I repeat the law is called the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, I don't think we can ignore and not talk about one thing or argue to introduce some new measures. So as we talk today about how we successfully prevent bird flu, how in one way or another we are fighting bioterrorism or these other new threats, it almost seems to me that we are listening to this debate to forget that today in Croatia we have a serious and public health problem or epidemic in which we do not respond in any way. It's about sexual health or sexually transmitted diseases. They entered this list of infectious diseases. And today I think it's worth saying and it's not negligible that it's since '98. years until 2003 according to... The study was conducted, exposed to students, or the improvement of the student population with sexually transmitted diseases increased by 30%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today 15% to 18% of students therefore sexually active students are infected with chlamydia and 10% to 12% with HPV. You have when you change to the rest of the population that is less educated, therefore which is not a student population, it's obviously that percentage and higher. And today, about the problem that 10% or 20% of our population is infected with serious infectious diseases, we don't respond in any way. I've watched what measures are now and according to this law to prevent all infectious diseases, and then we assume these are the ones we're talking about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, no article in this law that I repeat is called the protection of the public from infectious diseases mentions health education programmes for the general public, so beyond this health care and education that these people work in a way that is at increased risk of spreading infectious diseases themselves. I will remind you that over three years of balling between the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports and the Ministry of Health and Social Care about the Health Education Programme for primary and secondary schools, that the result of this whole balling is that today there is no Health Education and Education Programme in Croatia, which can be very effective and this shows research outside, very effectively solve at least one part of these problems that we have today. In fact, all the evidence collected and studied from international practice shows that young people are primarily talking about a younger population who have been provided satisfactory information on sexual issues tends to be more responsible and secure and that the likelihood of their exposure to sexual risks is significantly less than in sexually-needed peers. It has been shown that sexual education programs increase the level of knowledge of reproduction, pregnancy, sexually transmitted infections and prevention methods, and I think we should talk about it when 20% of the population is therefore not individual but 20% of the population is infected with these or those sexually transmitted diseases. It has also been proven that sexual education programmes do not promote early or increased sexual activity but that they can affect safer sexual behavior. I would like Mr. Secretary of State if you, as Government, would be very precise in order to avoid these beatings that last for the last three years in Article 5, where it says that the annual programme of public protection measures against infectious diseases is brought by the minister, that these Programmes of the public against infectious diseases must also include general educational programmes on, whether in selected populations or populations that have a higher percentage of pain. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is necessary for these specific things and diseases we are talking about, somewhere in Croatia there is a plan to do screening on chlamydia and on HPV. To this day, the only thing that's going to happen is that it's going to happen. Those tests aren't done yet. Gynecologists give up more often than they do in some way give instructions and go through the whole process of even detecting chlamydia and then human papillon viruses. And what's discovered pain is I repeat 20%. So we're not just thinking about these maybe global threats that get media attention from this or from that, but maybe to open our eyes to those obvious and existing epidemics that we have in Croatia that we don't do enough to prevent them, either in terms of prevention or in terms of detection and then in terms of treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94291	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we have one in a series of those laws that the government makes in its mandate, in its programme, which have indeed one I would say above all importance to the entire population. Therefore, this law also belongs to those laws that form and provide for Croatian society a single public health security. I was thinking to my colleague Maria a little bit in her speech and rely on her speaking in connection with this law, but I'm afraid she's going to leave, so I'm going to start with that right now. So, she's, uh, I didn't want to drag her around, so I apologize, Mr. Vice President, for this debate, so I didn't raise a line. However, she was talking here about a very important topic and it is actually sexually transmitted diseases and everything that goes along with it. However, I think it is precisely necessary to stress what we are different in this assembly here, this part of the MPs, not this part of the MPs, but one let's say an attitude to those issues from another part of it. I'm not saying that on every occasion in my entire life I've followed those rules that I'm going to say here, but I think it's important to mention that when it comes to sexually transmitted diseases. So you can't talk about sexually transmitted diseases and make sure that they don't happen to the population and that they don't carry all their consequences on the one hand, and on the other hand promote endless freedom in sexual behavior that goes from extreme to extreme. So these are simply unacceptable principles even from the point of view of the profession, even from the point of view of epidemiological, infectious and whatever you want. So we can't promote on one side, just a little bit, even in this House. I'm not just talking about your debate right now, but I'm speaking in general because I've been sitting here for over three years and listening to what you represent. So, on the one hand, you can't argue for I don't know about freedom, boundless freedom, freedom that doesn't really have a responsibility and on the other hand complain about the consequences and that kind of freedom. I will now answer that question with one sentence or one statement. One study of not one or two, or three examples, was published in America, but three thousand samples. Three thousand well-known American universities have been researched under the theme, i.e. the Colloquial title "Relation of Faith and Health". And what the conclusions have come to are just the experts we're talking about here who have something to do with this Law on the Prevention of Infectious Diseases. On such a serious pattern and at all the medical schools or hospitals that entered this study, three thousand people came to the conclusion that actually those people who respect some kind of religious self - esteem. So, I'm not talking about Catholics, I'm not talking about Protestants, I'm just going to come to it for a little bit, but I'm talking about all those who, say, here on Sundays just respect and serve so-called. I don't know for someone it's mass, for someone the service is Sunday, etc. So it has been proven that they are less, far less exposed to all the risks of the disease and even on this basis, therefore contagious as such. It has been proven that those who do not practice it, only a little bit, do not propagate faith as faith, but propagate the consequences that arise, the consequences of those who advocate eternal freedom and then suffer their consequences. So it's been proven that those who practice Sunday service, so they go with the family to mass, listen to me. So I'm not talking about Catholics, but I'm talking about everyone regardless of what the Christian Church is about. And there was also research in the Jews of the American. So they are less at risk of being ill than those who do not smoke compared to those who smoke 25 years a day 20 cigarettes. So it has to do with each other. So, on the one hand, we can't advocate the absolute freedom of the infinite and on the other hand complain about its consequences. It was simply necessary to say and related to this law. When it comes to Croatian tradition, I would return to it, and I call for it to return, to the Croatian tradition to actually deal with this big problem, and then we will have to go back to a far 1377. Why? Because shortly after Venice, Dubrovnik introduced quarantine. So Dubrovnik, far away in 1377, introduced quarantine by the decision of the Dubrovnik Council as a way of fighting and dealing with this dangerous trend, or whatever this infectious disease is carrying with it. After that, I think it is necessary to mention when we talk about this law another Croatian experience, I would say the Croatian model, in one part and under the conductor stick of Austro-Hungarian, which is so-called. Sanitary cordon. So, it is known that the cordon played an amazing role in defending Croatian space from the outbreaks of plague and others, almost a thousand kilometers long, be careful. Nearly a thousand kilometers away, the cordon defended and protected Croatia, not only in military terms, but also in terms of the outbreak. As far as I know, I'm thinking within 200 years, not a full 200 years of his existence that the plague epidemic has penetrated this cordon all I think three times, or five, doesn't matter. But then, he played a key role. In the tradition of Croatian in terms of dealing with this problem, it is of course necessary to mention the pioneering endeavor of Andrija Printar, or everything that has brought his thought to the spread of public health in the territory of Croatia. For example, the Epidemiological Institute in Zagreb was founded in '23 and '26. The first textbook on epidemiology as well was published in the year. Modern epidemiology has already begun to study the epidemiology of infectious diseases because there was no epidemic of non-infectious diseases at the time, and it has been actively dealt with for some thirty years. '21. The function of so-called function has already been defined in cities. an epidemic doctor who played a very important role in this time of dealing with this significant and major problem. In 2003, the Croatian Institute of Public Health of Epidemiologically separated into epidemiology of infectious and epidemiology of non-infectious diseases. So Croatia is a country of long and strong public-health traditions and this law is on the trail. I'd single out those articles here that even define what infectious diseases are and are neatly listed as 82. It is then very important to define the prominent rights of the Republic of Croatia, the County, the cities and all those who have to deal with this problem from Article 9 and further define public protection measures against infectious diseases, general and specific. It is then significant, of course, that the elements that speak, or those articles, which speak about the importance of early diagnostics and laboratory diagnostics, reporting and so on of these diseases are significant. For a time, therefore, it was considered in the history of epidemiology that the war with infectious diseases ended because the inventions of antibiotics and all other chemotherapists and I don't know everything, it was thought that it had come to an end with this major problem, but the latest research and the new time actually did not come to our aid, but in fact the re-emergences of the diseases that we have to deal with again. There are old diseases that we think we're... and healed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, though, we didn't. Infectious diseases become weapons, modern weapons of a very vicious war and can be and can be. Croatia is therefore a country located at the intersection of roads, is very interested and should be interested in an organised systematic struggle and dealing with this problem. This law is actually one of the instruments and here present secretary of state I welcome and thank both him and Mr. Minister and Government that they have passed one such law which actually has to be one I would say the new modern sanitary cordon on the way not only to Croatia but on the way to Europe. Thank you very much. [[Good job! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94293	Thank you. Now prepare for a number of replicas, dear representative Bagarić. But first, the correction of an incorrect allegation is the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94294	I have carefully written down my colleague Bagaric, who said, "People who respect religious ovaries have proven that those who practice religious service are less exposed to the risk of being sick than" I add these sexual diseases. It's not true and it's not acceptable. Because sexually transmitted diseases appear equally among those who practice faith as well as those who do not practice it. It is incorrect that those who practice faith are less exposed to sexual diseases because it is a young population that no matter what religion, changes its partners more. And it is quite hypocritical to believe that family people do not have sex outside of marriage because it would mean that there is neither fraud nor infidelity at the time. And we know that's not the way it is in life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94295	Come on, that's one famous actor saying it's when you get a little too much alcohol, so forget it. Now let's go to the replicas. Dear representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94296	Yes, colleague Bagaric. I don't know, nor have I noticed that it's extremely malicious to say that no one in this House, you've alluded to the SDP's advocating to limitless freedoms without responsibility. Every freedom has a responsibility and that we have always advocated in the SDP. That we are, that every man has the right to be what he is, and we are still behind it, but we don't think that this can be a disqualification polygon. But I wanted to say something similar to Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain's colleague because with us, I'd like you to explain to me what's wrong? If almost 90% of the population in Croatia is Catholic and 20-30% of the student population is sexually transmitted to you and unmarried populations. So people who shouldn't even be in relationships, in sexual relations, step in because they're believers how is that possible? I mean, something obviously isn't right. Namely when you called for a Croatian tradition. I am for respecting Croatian tradition, but if we have to solve problems, then I am first of all to see what kind of Croatian reality is it? And please religious education can never replace health care and education in any way. If they had done the same thing then there wouldn't be two terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94297	Well, let's see, does Agent Bagaric want to know how to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94298	I thank you for this replica. Dear Mary, you know why it is So what about... [[Well, don't.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here's my apology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I apologize if I offended you by saying darling. So, dear colleague Maria, you say, you say what's the problem when so many Croats plead to Catholics and we have such consequences? I'll answer you very simply. They are not Catholics or, just a little bit, not practical Catholics. I fenced myself in the beginning so I wouldn't scold here a hypocritical being so in the sense that I was some kind of saint and I made the same mistakes, just a little bit. So he suffered their consequences. And I can tell you that and then what does that mean? And it's medically proven, both for you and for your colleague, that the woman who often changes partners is exposed and much more exposed to different diseases among other tens of times is more exposed to the cancer of the cervix than others. So let's stay away from demagogy. That's right. So, are we, are we just Catholics, or are we actually practicing being Catholic, or are we believers, that's a whole other question? [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94299	Thank you. Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Pavicic, Jelena Pavicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we really didn't propagate free love, but we promoted education on sexually transmitted diseases, and when we talk about responsibility, then we should say that there is one general social responsibility besides this personal responsibility. The responsibility of us as legislators, responsibilities and institutions of health protection. And we really have no right to close our eyes to a problem that certainly exists. And otherwise, I don't know where we actually get the right to keep faith and think that it's politically conditioned and actually the believers and the unbelievers, the Catholics and some of them, and by what part of this hall, this assembly is sitting in. And now, finally, what you said was that women who often change partners are at great risk. What about men? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94301	Thank you. You see how professionally we're discussing this problem. I'm still the gynecologist. Here's an answer to the replica. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94302	So while my colleague was saying you commented, "This is something terrible." I say I don't see what's scary about it? I'll try to answer... Well, it didn't, so I didn't, so I started by myself. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I guess I'm a man or I look like a girl to you. Just a little bit, so like this, the same consequences bear both. So there's absolutely the same responsibility and it's undeniable at all. On the other hand, it's undeniable, and you can't put this in my mouth that I've earned my faith. No, no, no, no, no, no. So how can I keep my faith? I'm just talking about how we're all a little bit hypocrites when it comes to faith. So, we say that we are, we practice it seemingly, etc. And the question is how much we really live in this life. So I don't invite anyone to live one way or another. But I only know one thing. My own children, so I have to direct them and tell them how important learning is, how important behavior is like this or something, but that doesn't mean I'm taking the right of others to say the same to my children and I don't think that I'm taking some of the time away from others in their own influence and on my own children, etc. So it didn't occur to me to keep it to myself, just for this part of the club. I spoke clearly about the system of values. You're advocating each other's system of values, we're advocating another system of values. Wait a minute, I'm starting with the decriminalization of easy drugs. I think it's harmful. We think it's harmful. You don't think so. We think it's harmful because when someone takes easy drugs, they'll take heavy drugs, and then they'll suffer the consequences, and we know. We also know when we say this is harmful that unfortunately we will take not us here again, but someone will take so it will be a shame again. But it'll be even bigger if I don't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94303	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94304	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to look back on this debate by my colleague Bagaric, who I really have to say surprised me, by being a fellow doctor and simply cannot understand that this is how this problem can be talked about. He's here, he's sharing representatives on each other. One according to him advocates endless sexual freedom, and then on the other hand complains about the consequences of that freedom. He still said something in that sense. Those who at least attend the mass of the study show that the risk of sexually transmitted diseases is lower, etc. I think that's the attitude, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but I think this is really just an inappropriate moment of life where we are, and on the other hand, it's alluded to SDP agents that we're advocating endless sexual freedom. If we're advocating anything or I'm going to say it for myself, then I'm certainly advocating love as one of the most beautiful emotions that adorns mankind. But also love with responsibility. But I think the main problem is that today we don't really have a suitable education in schools for young generations. I'd say picturesquely that it's not understood that the introduction of religious sciences into schools we've thrown out health care and sexual education and that's the basic problem. Because simply young people cannot be educated, i.e. they cannot be educated in such a way as to protect their health and to protect their health, and therefore I think it is unacceptable that with the introduction of health care, they are so politicized and in some way waiting so long that they finally go to school, and I think that they would not only, then, that young people would educate themselves on the preservation of their health, but would also educate themselves on love, but with that love and responsibility that she carries with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94305	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94306	Thank you, colleagues. You see, you've now come to a whole other topic, which has something to do with this, which is health care. Speaking of which, I have to say, so of course I'm not speaking on behalf of everyone here together. So, I speak for you,... So I'm replicating you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I speak for myself. So you know there were two programs. So you know that two programs have been offered. You know that one program met all the conditions and that it was about something else, about anything else, then it would have been very easy to choose that one program, and this other one was rejected. However, thanks to all those souls of freedom that I spoke of earlier, pressure was made, so that both of them were the same, both of them equally valuable. Both, yes. So when they're both equally valuable, or when one is worth it to me, it's for me personally that project... It's worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's worth something else to you. That's the difference I was talking about. Now you're saying I'm talking outside the context of time and that I should adjust my speaking context to time. If I adjust it and you adapt it together and if we live in a context of time, then we will suffer the consequences. Then we'll suffer the consequences and then we'll be surprised again, and just for your sake. I'm going to get you this copy of this paper that I didn't invent, but it's been published, this paper is published I say at 3,000 medical schools in America that talk about what I've been telling you about. I'm really going to copy it, and I'm going to share it with all of you in the benches if you want. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94307	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94308	Thank you. I'd actually say, first of all, I'm going to start with about these programs that were by associations in a health and education contest in schools, so as far as I know, the Ministry of Health is just... The programme, therefore, has just been rejected by one of the associations because of the shortcomings in the health care area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, that's right, that's right. Otherwise, this is how I have to say a few sentences about the fact that my colleague Bagarić mentioned Andrija Stampar, School of National Health, etc. and then I just read something said about the 75th anniversary of the School of National Health, and it says: “The founders of the school believed that everyone has the right to health, the right to equal access to health care, that no one should be socially marked without reason, excluded because he is sick, infected or otherwise, that there should be no insignificant people, that every nation and every individual should have the right to quality biological and spiritual development.” During the 75th year of the school’s existence, it was based on the printer’s thinking that the people should be taught. So when we talk about teaching and public health, what's the state of health care today would be too little for me to say this time. It's a special subject. However, when we talk about teaching, I will associate this with the issue of health education in our schools and the government's refusal to take responsibility for health education, for a health education programme in our schools, that is, for the health education and education of our young generations. And with this I believe that this government is also responsible for this problem, which was discussed by colleague Marija Lugaric, because it goes through a line of less resistance and leaves such an important segment of education to one, the other, third or not, which brings health care to the issue of hand washing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94309	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94310	Thank you. So it doesn't occur to me that I take your colleagues' right to talk about this subject, even though talking about public health to you and to me is about as much as telling me about women's rights and you. Or that I speak, understand, and stand in the position of someone who knows something. It's like I'm talking about basketball in front of Franjo Arabovic. I've just finished public health, and I know exactly what Andrija Stamper was saying, and I'm just gonna tell you a little bit. ... You didn't make anything up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you said there were no rejected people, no discrimination against the sick, no etc. That's exactly what I'm saying. You're saying people should be taught, so that's exactly what I'm doing. Why? Because I'm invited to, because I'm saying this is what I'm talking about based on evidence. I didn't make this up, you understand. On the other hand, when you say what Andrija Printar said, I will now tell you what Andrija Printar said when he was a student and what he said when he finished his studies and what he said when he was elected to be president of the League of People, that is, the World Health Organization's predecessor. He said my people, the poor people in Croatia, especially in his part where he lived, will kill by ignorance, and it goes with infectious diseases, just a little, and should deal with them and eradicate them, goes with alcoholism and should be prevented, etc. Thus, with many of the troubles that Andrija Printar was talking about at that time, it was going to be going on and on and on, we're going to deal with it all the time. I assure you that Andrija Stamper is here then would certainly absolutely give support to what I'm talking about, and I wouldn't give support to what you're talking about. The second thing, Andrija Stampar would not have mercy on your government either, because he would say that you can now say what the government should have done, what it should have done, while sitting around that same government's neck to put a pin in her head, or in her back, because it does this, what you yourself had four years of power so you didn't solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94311	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94312	There was a time adjustment mentioned here, and I'm actually going to try to replicate it without ideological notions, without thinking what an esteemed colleague said and didn't say it, and some of them are so attached to them. In fact, I will try to speak only one brief replica of a very public health tradition and a positive historical heritage and tradition and this bill of law as a modern sanitary cordon that my colleague mentioned in the military landscape. It's one fact that we can be proud of, because the military landscape didn't have just a sanitary cordon that would solve protection against infectious diseases, but at that time it was actually separating two different political and cultural worlds. Thus, there were sorceresssssssses, not those of heaven or earth but were firmly on earth, having 6 to 10 guards who translated people who received special confirmation from one area to another. So this is the positive legacy that we, with this modern approach and this modern bill, are now implementing in Croatian practice, and animals have been deterred from transport, from transfer from one area to another scream, if they couldn't otherwise, then they were actually killed, yes. And given the situation, there were three degrees of guards involved in one quarantine. If there was a peaceful situation on the Turkish side, a 21-day quarantine was established, if there were reports of infectious quarantines for 28 days, and if it was known that the government near the quarantine border was 42 days, so full six weeks. Here they knew little, but they worked very well preventively, so here is the contribution to this discussion by colleagues Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94313	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94314	I thank my colleague, Buchanan, who really demonstrated here a high knowledge about this preventive measure, which is this so-called. Sanitary cordon. But speaking of which, if we're not taking up a lot of time, then I think it's good to mention one thing that they didn't mention, which would fit right in. If you remember that when we studied, there we read that they even had a sleeper at that time, a sleeper servant. You know what his role was? If these were to come up with, like, wool or some kind of slave, or grain or anything, if they got to the border, to the quarantine, so they wouldn't sacrifice, I mean, it was really inhuman but only possible. Then a sleeper servant would sleep in that wool and in that grain, etc. And then his condition would be monitored. If there were no consequences, then, of course, the goods could have passed forward. Thank God, therefore, we do not need such sleepers today, but we do not need to squeeze our eyes in front of reality and not see, but we really need to open our eyes and deal with the real world and the problems that we are with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94315	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94316	Thank you very much. So I'm going to go back to what my colleague Bagarić was saying, returning to the history and importance of the epidemiological service, or public health services in Croatia, and somehow it's offered me not to stay when we're talking about the history and role of the public health service, not to mention its role in recent times, and that was the time of the Homeland War. I think it is a period for all of us in the health care system to be proud, because war as a war always carries epidemics, and we have been through a good organisation of this service without any epidemic, without the tetanus that monitors every wound in Croatia was the vatification of the military, civilians, water care, water, healthy water and healthy food. So that's what I think when we're talking about an epidemiological service that also has a command post in this law because it's the law and it's been done, and therefore it's been offered to mention this period of the latest Croatian history and to once again give recognition to everyone who's worked there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94317	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94318	I am truly sorry that I didn't mention that part, primarily because I had almost run out of time, but I'm really glad my colleague Bačić mentioned it. In fact, it may be in one extraordinary, especially extraordinary circumstances and demonstrated this accumulated knowledge in these areas when it comes to public health, when it comes to dealing with all possible infections and these problems, but when it comes to patriotism as such. So with this... In fact, I'm removing someone's past, I don't know whose claim we've led to a crucible, and I don't even know the complete fiasco of public health as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is, in the Homeland War, in fact, the most brilliant way and I would say the most effective way to show all public health and preventive medicine in Croatia. So, of course, that public health that played that role in the Homeland War doesn't play the same role here right now and right now, but there is another, every role in its time. So it's up to us to do it in the best possible way, and here I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to really and in this way give credit to all those people who during the Homeland War, especially doctors, everyone, to all the defenders, especially doctors, because we're talking about them now, that's exactly what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94319	Thank you. Here we have exhausted all the replicas and shown how one debate can be broad, from chlamydia to freedom of sexual relations, to sleep in wool and ended with patriotism. There he is. Here's what we've closed the debate, and we've got a far-fetched secretary of state. Here you go, Mr. Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94320	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for one constructive discussion. Namely, large population migrations, climate change, modification and the ability to adapt micro-organisms, resistance to existing therapies, new therapies, and yet existing therapies, etc., all this is certain that we must be put in a position to worry about the protection of the public from infectious diseases. What is to be said is that there is always coordination with the European Union listed here, I would still have to point out in particular that one clarification is given. The Republic of Croatia has a long tradition in the protection of the public against infectious diseases, long and quality and legal alignment with the European Union we can say clearly and loudly on the list of infectious diseases, means extending the list to some early detection and information measures. However, without harmonisation, the Republic of Croatia would pass the same law as an improvement in the law of '92, all for the purpose of preserving the tradition it has, which it showed its greatest value during the Homeland War when we can clearly and loudly say that no major epidemic has been recorded. I think that's what we practically said everything about it. The observations made during this discussion, in particular one part in nomotechnical terms and which have been submitted in the form of amendments, will be clarified and an opinion, whether or not adopted, will be given at the time of the vote. However, I am invited by some invitations from this assembly to say two words, which were directly called by the Ministry of Health. The Department of Health didn't refuse the GROZD program. The health ministry wasn't even in a position to refuse, that's what needs to be said out loud and clear here. The Ministry of Health received the opinion of two programmes and the Ministry of Health said that one and another programme should be completed. Therefore, it cannot be said because it can be assumed that one programme of the ministry accepted, another refused. No, I don't. The ministry asked for a co-operation for both programmes, i.e. it gave its opinion that both programmes should be completed. The Ministry of Health had no competence to give consent or accept programmes. And as for basic education, we agree that education should be done and that education should be started in health education, but it should be clearly and loudly said that the right education starts in the family, in that basic unit of human society, and there is also visionaryism of Andrija Printar, which is in '32. He wrote that he would need to go into health care because he predicted the destruction of the family... during the communist rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94321	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94322	Well, it turns out this way isn't a neck, it's a neck. You turned down the programs, both of them, and you gave a negative opinion. What else would that mean than you refused to fire the government between the two ministries and when you mention Andrija Stamper, I ask you what you did to sell that thought, and you had a good chance. I just know that these next school years since medical education in schools and Z, thanks to the bickering between the two ministries of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94323	I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94324	The final draft law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and MPs Mirjana Brnadić and Carmela Caparin. The Committee on Legislatives, State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem. Amendments to the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94325	Amendments 1 to 3 shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94326	1 to 3 are accepted. They become an integral part of the law. Next?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94327	Amendment 4 shall be accepted in part. Article 1 shall not be accepted to determine from paragraph 1 as it relates to all annual programmes, whether they are brought by or brought by the Minister or by the County.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94328	Co-chair of the Committee on Amendments in this kind of modified form? Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94329	It is accepted with the note that we will then use the same terminology instead of employment in employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94330	The consensual president of the Committee is the same way you are? Amendment adopted in amended form. Six?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94331	6. is not accepted because health care is a much wider concept than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94332	Amendment 6 withdrawn. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94333	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94334	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eight?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94335	It's not the same thing to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94336	Retracted. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94337	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94338	Retracted. 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94339	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94340	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I'm putting it to the vote, I'm sorry, Ayoy. Representatives Mirjana Brnadić and Carmela Caparin Amendment 1.?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94341	The first amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94342	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94343	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94344	Let's take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94345	Retracted. I am voting on the final draft law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 102 votes in favour, one abstention and 3 against the proposed law. It's not Tonchi's law on the protection of infectious diseases from the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94346	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. 743 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance, the State Budget and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me give you a brief explanation of the meaning of this Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Loans with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At first, I want to point out that this loan with the International Bank will be used in the area between Drava, Sava and Danube, i.e. in the area where water supply, water protection, protection against harmful water performance at an extremely low level. Here I would like to say that in this area, the basis of the research work that we have done and we are proud to point out that there are large areas of drinking waterbeds in this area, so that through this project and through much of it means loans that will be used for water protection, means for and construction of wastewater facilities, and also disposal systems, and what is most important of all means that local self-government units located in that area will receive exceptional quality resources, and also when all installations are built, they will also get extremely high quality infrastructure. It's important to say here that the project has two components. The first component, that's the investment that's in cca. amounting to 100 million euros, from which wastewater disposal and treatment systems will be made. Also part of the construction of water supply facilities and also facilities will be built to defend against floods in the area of central Posavia. In the second component, I would especially like to highlight the technical assistance that is in cca. The amount of 5m euros will mean the development of technical documentation for which we will be running for the European Union's cohesion and structural funds in the future. And so are all other sources. We also want to say here that from these 5 million euros, which is very important to help and existing utility companies by strengthening their capacity to be implemented and ultimately to use these facilities, means that by strengthening their capacities, they maintain and build buildings. It is also important to say here that the construction of water supply systems according to this plan will mean the cost of the loan to work in the area of northern Baranja, also in the area of Davor in Novi Gradiška and also in the part of Podravina. Complete investment in this area means that through the construction of a new water network will be in the amount of cca. 32 million and 800 thousand euros. The biggest investments are as I initially said in the area of draining and treatment of waste water. So here are the planned investments in Ogulin, Ivanova, Island, Komletinci, Cerni and also waste water means in the area of the Drava and Danube River, in Virovitica, Nasice, South Baranja. It is also partly envisaged to go into the construction of wastewater installations in the city of Vukovar and also in the surrounding areas. Total investment means in the area of waste disposal or treatment of waste water will amount to 77.8m euros. We will also use part of the loan to protect against the harmful effects of water so that in the Lonjsko field we can make adaptations or upgrades of existing embankments so that we can increase the capacity of the Lonj field, as well as accept all possible water waves that will come. And we can be happy to point out that after the construction of the Lonjsko polje we will be protected in the Sava area with a high 95% of possible floods. And the total and investment in this area against the protection against harmful effects of water are cca. Seven million euros. In the end, I would like to ask for support from all of you here, so support this bill for reasons because it will really be spent in the area where it is most needed and this is in the area of meaning between Sava, Drava and Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94348	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94349	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project, because it is indeed a very high-quality project in which the World Bank participates with 100m euros, the Republic of Croatia with 5.3m euros, through the funds of the Croatian Waters, which Croatia will provide in its budget for the next five years at 1m euros each year. It's a very favourable loan for practically 15 years with five years to start, ten years to pay. The whole project should be implemented from the beginning of next year until the end of 2012. The loan was credited at a very favourable interest rate of 4.25%. This year, the Bank gave up all costs, otherwise its total costs are 0.50 plus 0.25 and 75% respectively. On these details of the State Secretary, I do not want to repeat them, I would just like to point out that these projects are actually being implemented in the area of special state care or in the area of war destroyed by Ogulin and all the way around to Virovitica. And that the implementation of these projects will long-term address water supply, draining and treatment of waste water and, of course, improve the flood defence system in the Lonjsko field. We will certainly support the adoption of this treaty-confirmation law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94350	I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project. EUR 100 million for water Osijek-Baranja County mainly. Osijek-Baranja County. To vote. The result? 97 votes in four abstentions. Tomic, Tomic, Fiolits, Fiolits. We'll remember who voted for this. This law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94353	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This law is one of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is necessary to implement with the aim of curbing the grey economy in the field of this activity. The law has been working for a long time with all relevant partners and for the first time in the Republic of Croatia to regulate the activity of real estate intermediaries. What's important to say is that in our country, because of the lack of regulation that regulates the activity of real estate intervention, everyone literally does this job. Part of the company operates by model of developed countries and part of the company does not respect even the basic rules of business. As a result, a number of problems arise in this activity, and these problems are related to the unfair competition, the need for real estate traders, and ultimately to avoid and pay compensation to the state representing actions entering the gray economy area. In this way, unprotected consumers and rarely the sellers themselves are unprotected. The aim is to enable this type of business to be introduced more orderly and to provide citizens with better, more professional and quality services modelled by the agencies of the Member States of the European Union. The importance of this activity is also the fact that some 1.2 billion kuna was collected from real estate tax in 2006. As a result, the total turnover of real estate taxed on real estate was around €23.8 billion, not including newly built real estate taxed on value added tax. The very cost-effectiveness of this business is also mentioned by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that the rule of business of real estate intermediaries led to this day has been signed by a total of 406 agencies, including companies and craftsmen. In the chamber company base, 585 are registered in code K 7031 of the Real Estate Agency. According to data provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in that code of activity, 120 agencies have been registered to date as craftsmen. The non-transparency of the market with a legally unsettled situation favours the appearance of a grey economy, i.e. an increasing number of persons who operate without adherence to the rules of the profession and who cause direct harm to customers and indirectly to the whole profession. This law will create a legal basis for regulating the conditions for carrying out the activity of real estate, rights and obligations of real estate intermediaries, the rights and obligations of real estate agents and the rights and obligations of employers as well as the supervision of the provision of real estate interventions. Therefore, the proposal for a law will regulate what is considered to be a real estate intervention, who can carry out activities of intermediation, conditions for carrying out activities, approval for carrying out activities, the obligation to register property brokers in special registers, the obligation of real estate brokers to carry out activities of intermediation, the way in which intervention operations are carried out, the duration of the intermediation contract, the determination of the broker's fee and the payment of fees, the supervision of the work of real estate intermediaries, and the penalties for the handling of contrary to the provisions of the law. The adoption of this law will create a legal basis for safe and standardised real estate trading, i.e. for real estate intervention and enable the relevant authorities to monitor this business effectively. The law also goes in the direction of consumer protection as an employer, i.e. in the direction of obtaining adequate service and legal certainty. The law also protects the recipients or brokers in the transport of real estate so that they can gain such a reputation as to affect the increase in the scope of their business and thus their income, which will positively reflect the overall performance of the business in this activity. The regulation of equal operating rules for all entities will reduce abuses and illegalities in the segment of the performance of this activity and will also affect the reduction of the grey economy. Since this is the first reading of the law, I expect that there will be debates and suggestions that we will naturally put into the second reading of the law. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94354	The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94355	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Although this law seems very important to me and of course we'll support it at the club because it's in the first reading. I'm sorry that he's actually so advanced here we go in the afternoon because I think it's going to be about quality in activity in this area that it's going to depend on a lot of what's going to happen in the future. You've realized that the real estate market has come to life, there's a lot of intermediaries. It is true that the Republic of Croatia does not have legal regulation as far as this is concerned and that, under what conditions interventions are being carried out. Some companies are engaged in this quality intervention, some are engaged in unquality although we have a large number registered at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I mean over 500 and 585 some are registered as craftsmen. So, all together the whole area for now is still pretty messy. However, I still can't get the impression that the initiative came from other motives entirely. So, I would very much like it to be a basic initiative to sort out that activity entirely. However, the fact that you have pointed out several times in this introductory section that it is actually a grey economy area I think it is primarily an intensity to raise significant funds that are coming through intervention and to charge taxes on them because you yourself have written here that approximately 1.2 billion kuna has been collected in real estate sales so far, and that it has been taken out by analogy that in real estate transport it was at 23.8 billion kuna, of course not including newly built buildings, they are paid VAT. However, it is not only a problem that these intermediaries are sometimes mutators but rather a problem with the fact that they are legally unsettled. So, some of the intermediaries promise you what de facto I can't realize to you, not by my own fault. They know very often that they can't realize it, but they still promise it, even though later on, when it comes to the last moment that something in the land books is finally proving not to be done. Of course, they cannot answer and this is all the consequences of the fact that the situation in the real estate has not been regulated legally. That's where I'd like to point out that intermediaries aren't necessary in all real estate interventions. And you'll see if you follow a little bit through ads that a lot of people who sell or buy real estate specifically say and mention that they don't want intermediaries. So I don't think it's the only way to trade real estate and I don't want it to become the only way and the possibility of trading real estate, but I'd read what you said in the introduction. According to some surveys in the area of activity of real estate brokers, the existence of an unregistered economy has been observed so-called ‘unregistered’. The gray economy. This implies that, in addition to the fact that real estate brokers are engaged in a non-quality manner, many intermediaries avoid paying taxes, VAT and profit and income taxes. So I repeat, I think that's where you actually started from, and that's the primacy of this law. I can't help but think that it's not possible to take care of the situation in the activity that I repeat, but I just don't think it's possible to take care of it until the real estate legal regulations are settled, in fact it's primarily about the collection and control of agents' income in terms of improving activity. So it's regulated to say that you have to have this space separate from the apartment space which I don't think is so unquestionable or so important to do quality work. That he must have a room for confidential conversations. Let me also say that it doesn't seem crucial to me for the quality of doing the middleman's work. If insurance for an intermediary against damage, that would be certainly good. You've set two categories of 600 and 200 thousand kuna there. But you haven't worked out how much that's actually going to cost the last person to pay for it? Of course it won't be paid by an agent. He will only be a mediator in paying what he will collect from him who will be a seller or a buyer. And in the end, an agent must be constantly employed. So there's something red taped again. Maybe that's okay. He's got to have a minimum mid-level training kit, so let's say he's okay with that, too. So he must have a prescribed professional exam. Well, maybe that should be fine, too. But I'd like to remind you that this job has been done for 10 years and that the question of whether all these conditions have been met so far, and I don't think that because of these unauthorized conditions, the job has been carried out unqualityly. It seems to me that primarily unquality work has been done because there is no good, high-quality legal regulation in real estate. So not because of the middlemen themselves. And what I would have seen in the act relating to criminal provisions, which I consider mandatory, must be determined that there must be no penalties in the event that the intermediary charges an indirect fee greater than the one referred to in Article 27, paragraph 2, or where it charges more than 6% of the purchase price of real estate. Furthermore, I cannot read from this proposal how to prevent intermediaries from increasing the price of real estate due to all the conditions they need to meet, insurance and the like. This should also be taken into account as their fee is determined by the basis of the purchase price. This is where the employer should be protected. You can't tell from the law if there are two employers in the legal business? Like shopping and selling. If shopping and selling goes through the same agency, same agent. So the middleman is taken from both or from only one employer. So is it 6% of the income then or is 12% of each 6% of the income? One job provides two fees even though one real estate is in legal traffic. That's what the bill does not show. So I'm afraid it's going to be about, these 6% seem to me in one hand quite high, high, high income. I'm saying it's not clear whether it's charged by both or by one and finally on whose burden or ultimately who's going to pay for it? Well, they'll pay the seller or the buyer. I don't know if it's a lot of luck in real estate? I'm afraid not. But of course I think this is the first reading and our club will support it in the hope that by autumn we'll get something that will be a little more specific about these relationships, so maybe it will prove to be a better proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94356	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Real Estate Intermediation. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The bill is passed. He's going to first reading. He's going to the other one, yeah. To vote. The result? 94 votes for and four abstentions. So it goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94358	Let's go to the next item: - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of 6 members of the Civil Intelligence Council. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Committee President Ivan Jarnjak will explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94359	Mr President-in-Office, pursuant to Article 63 of the Proposal for a Decision The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Council for Civil Oversight of the Security and Intelligence Agency, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament at the 103rd session held on 12 July 2007 also set out a proposal for a decision to be taken by the Croatian Parliament on the discharge of 6 members of the Security and Intelligence Agency to comply with Article 204(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure included the agenda of the 26th session and so on. So it's about six members of the Civil Watch Council coming out in the 10th month, the term of office expires. Since a new Security Services Act has been passed, and since we do not know what will happen in the autumn, we have decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament earlier and the Committee has unanimously decided to proceed with the call for appointment of a new one. We have done this second part of the work and, therefore, we now propose as the first decision to the Croatian Parliament that these 6 should be resolved so that they can then decide or appoint new members. Mr. President, do you want the other part now? Thank you. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Therefore, pursuant to Article 4(2) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Decisions on the Council for Civil Oversight of Security Intelligence agencies of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament at the 103rd session held on 12 July 2007 also set out a proposal for the appointment of proposals and 6 members, presidents and 6 members of the Civil Intelligence Council. So we propose on the basis of collected and public invitation offers came in total 19. Of these, 3 for formal reasons could not be considered. The other 16 were given, it stands for a full check and after we have received a full check on all 16 candidates by majority of votes; 7 votes for, 2 votes abstentioned and 1 against we propose to the Croatian Assembly that the Security and Intelligence Agency Council be named: Mile Culumovic, who was for the president, who was the former V.D. The president. And we think he did it well. And we're proposing him to be the new president. For the members of Krunoslav Antolis, Zoran Grgic, Drazen Harasin, Sanja Sarnavek, Miroslav Šeparović, Nenada Vukman. I would also like to say to the Croatian Parliament that the Committee in its proposals has managed that the five members that have been in this council so far suggest that we continue to work for continuity because they have well mastered this job and have done well in the end, and that two new members be appointed. It is Drazen Harasin, master of kinesiology and Sanja Sarnavka, professor of comparative literature from Zagreb, which was proposed by the NGO “BaBe” and we thought it would be good for such an NGO to be involved in the work of the council. That's the shortest word. We expect and propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94360	Please. I'm opening a debate. More extensively. No one's answering for a hearing. Could the debate be closed, Mr Vujic? That, that dilemma has been bothering me for a long time. You want to answer in writing or in writing? [[I'll answer you in writing.]] Ha, ha. Then I'd like to conclude this topic. I'm convinced with quite a degree of probability, not entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94361	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of 6 members of the Civil Surveillance Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Please vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour, 7 abstentions made to the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94362	Second. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the Civil Surveillance Council of the Security Intelligence Service. The proposer is the same committee. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on appointment. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 16 abstentions and 5 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94363	And we'll discuss one more point, one phase. Point - Decisions on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I think it was June 7th when the President of the Constitutional Court informed me that the term of office of the Eight Judges of the Constitutional Court stands out. Namely, it expires December 7th this year. In accordance with this letter from the President of the Constitutional Court, I forwarded it in accordance with my duties and to the Committee on the Constitution, to the Chair of the Constitutional Committee which convened the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, scheduled a meeting and made a public call for candidates, potential candidates for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. After that, a public call published in the National Journal made by 24 candidates within the scheduled deadlines and 24 candidates in the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court discussed and made a triage where ten candidates of the Croatian Parliament today set out proposals for discussion and decision-making. In the meantime, a few clubs came in a short time ago, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of HNS, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, was also announced, and no one signed the PGS, SBH and the IMF club sent me a letter from an hour ago and I received it, where they proposed, asking to postpone the vote on the election of judges of the Constitutional Court until the autumn session of the Croatian Parliament for the following reasons because: the election procedure was carried out within a short period which did not allow the Croatian public and parliamentary parties and MPs to properly get acquainted with the candidates. Second. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court assumes a decision based on the belief of the expertise of individual candidates, but also on the balance of candidates in view of their world surveillance, moral credibility and social reputation. The procedure is not democratic and is based on the ruling party's majorisation. The clubs signed below cannot participate in the selection of Constitutional Court judges and ask you as president of the Croatian Parliament to postpone the vote for the autumn session so that it may be based on appropriate democratic procedure. The basic objection which, therefore, is visible is what is the basis of the objection of these parties' clubs to be highlighted. I will just point out that in full compliance with the business procedure, this part of the procedure of that call from the President of the Constitutional Court to the President of the Croatian Parliament, this one forwarded to the Committee on the Constitution. On the basis of the scheduled session, the Constitutional Committee issued an invitation ad in “National Journals”. After that, when all the candidates came, the Constitutional Committee did that interview yesterday that lasted from half two afternoons to eight, twenty hours and something. So, this whole procedure has been carried out in accordance with, strictly in accordance with legal norms. Did she have to do any more extra consultings? These additional consultations could also be carried out today at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution. I can't take responsibility for myself, I don't have those rights or powers. I'm not even the club president. I can't, I don't have the authority to be the one to take over, to claim my right to perform those consultations. It could've been done, and at the meeting, I'm telling the board. But despite that, I'm on a proposal tomorrow and on the initiative of these club representatives who have tabled a meeting tomorrow at nine o'clock at my office, so I'm asking that all club presidents, all parliamentary parties, not only those who have submitted the initiative to discuss themselves. I want to avoid clearly, as you want to avoid any trade, any other modality and reasons than those consultations that can still be done and certainly be so to ensure everything that the Constitutional Court, those candidates who are. Look, it was a consensual wish, I think I can tell all the clubs of all the parliamentary parties to make that choice now, not to wait for the fall. That's what we discussed in radio shows, we discussed in different conflicts, here's my colleague Arlovic and I were on various shows, media and others. So for reasons of caution, we saw how he ran with which difficulties the choice of a judge of the Constitutional Court, which were all problems as to what had occurred. So to prevent and avoid the fact that in September, when the final session of the Croatian Parliament begins, that we are not in such a one-humble tea note that would question the regular choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. Without the Constitutional Court, there are no legitimate and democratic elections. We now have five judges of the Constitutional Court, five, eight are elected. The Constitutional Court is relevant to, the only one relevant to decide on the constitutionality and legality of the elections and the objections, complaints from election committees, the only Constitutional Court can make decisions. If there were no Constitutional Court at a particular electoral store, if a complaint had been filed, the objection, if there were no one to solve it, the elections would be void. There wouldn't be a choice. I now suggest that we discuss this report of the Committee which, the Committee on the Constitution which has discussed, have a preliminary debate and that after tomorrow after this meeting, we all make a final decision together. All together to make a final decision. Representative Dragutin Lesar, Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With a few additional information and two questions that would be very good for you to answer before we decide anything else to do. First, when it was decided by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to initiate the procedure for the selection of 8 Constitutional Court judges, it was said and agreed that the procedure would be completed in the autumn so that they would have time on time and ended on time. Secondly, you silenced our proposal yesterday around 13.30 to invite the presidents of the club representatives to agree on further procedural actions and we expected this until today's meeting of the Constitutional Committee at 5:00. Representatives who only have the right to vote are asking for time to get acquainted with all documents that are relevant, and I need to inform you that the complete documentation on all 24 candidates has begun to be obtained today around 14 hours. The Constitutional Committee is responsible for conducting the procedure, but there is no right and the possibility of imposing decisions on the members of its club. Yesterday's hearing and a paper response and everything that was going on was given today at 5:00 and 5:00. I want to believe that you agree with me, that even MPs have the right to read it before any debate and decision-making. We have prayed and suggested that the Committee on the Constitution today make no decision, I hear that they have narrowed the list of candidates to 10 candidates from 24, I don't know why 10, but that's how they decided, and I'm asking what we should do after the board's decision tomorrow. If this decision had not been made, the conversation and the agreement would have made sense tomorrow, but the board made a decision and made a list of candidates. So let's get these things straight and see what, what we're actually talking about tonight and tomorrow in your office.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94365	First of all, in terms of this part that it is said that in the autumn will end the procedure, I keep asking that anyone has said that this procedure will be completed...... I'm not saying that you're lying, I'm just saying that I didn't say anywhere or say that the procedure would be completed in the fall, but vice versa. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was giving my views that it would be very good for the election to be made by the end of the fall, summer session and not to enter the fall. That's what I said in the media and radio shows, and that's where I agreed with Vice President Arlovic when we discussed it publicly and took positions. SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94366	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that we are deciding on eight judges of the Constitutional Court, we are not deciding on eight of any people in this country, we are deciding on eight people who make the most important decisions in this country and who are, in any case, the most important part of which is, therefore, the three that we share in the legislative, judicial and therefore, the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, for those eight people, we got life records this morning at clubs. A note from yesterday's discussion of the people on the board with so all the candidates for the Constitutional Court, we got on the bench today. I think one responsible behavior of every MP in this House means we know who we're voting for. So of these 24 people, we need to know which eight of the best and best people are to sit in the Constitutional Court tomorrow. We can't know that because we got the documents on these people this morning and for that. Please give some, no trespasses, especially those that are so very cultural. So we certainly do not have enough information about these people to vote on them. We decide literally about 8 judges of the Constitutional Court in two days which is definitely too short to decide such an important body in just two days. On the other hand, I don't get it. You're saying you didn't have the authority to do any consulting in this House. Mr. President, you've been in this House too long, you've been in this House since '90. years and you know very well how things have worked so far. On the other hand, I don't know what changed in your powers yesterday compared to today. You're saying tomorrow you'll call us as the President of the Parliament again, I don't know why you didn't invite us yesterday. I think maybe the answer is that you decided to do everything without any consultation in this House, that you decided to cut it off, break it over your knee. The Committee on the Constitution has already adopted a list of 10 candidates who will go to the vote in Parliament and it is indeed a question of what we can discuss and discuss tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. You've obviously established your criteria, you've chosen by these criteria the ones you're going to vote for tomorrow, so I don't see what we can negotiate tomorrow, and what we wanted to talk about is getting the highest quality judges, getting the highest quality people of these 24. Once again, eight judges of the Constitutional Court cannot be decided in two days, and that is why we are asking to decide this in the fall. After all, the Croatian public has the right to know who these people are, what these people stand for, what their moral values are. We will not enter professional qualities because everyone meets the formal conditions, but in any case the Croatian public would have the right to know who they are and who they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94367	In the procedure provided for by the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, as follows, when candidates with their résumés are registered, their necessary documentation is then determined by the Committee on the Constitution, he is the relevant Committee on the Constitution, the President is here. The Committee on the Constitution is competent to conduct that interview with the candidates and this was done yesterday, just as it was done when it was for the selection of the one judge when two candidates who were elected at the plenary session proposed by the Committee, and the Committee on the Constitution was the only one empowered and competent to establish a list of candidates to be proposed by the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption under the law, according to the Rules of Procedure, he generally proposes more candidates than those elected. And now that's what the Constitution Committee has proposed. This is the Committee on the Constitution and established, and this second part of the debate takes place after this part when the Committee on the Constitution sets out the list of candidates. ... This is very precise in the Rules of Procedure when the Committee on the Constitution sets out the list of candidates proposed by the Assembly for discussion and adoption, then a debate is held on that report. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the HDZ club, Honored Vice-President of the House of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have a procedure ahead of us, and there is still a procedure for the election of eight Constitutional Court judges numbering 13 judges. Of these 13 5 and after 7 December are the judges of the Constitutional Court and in order for the Constitutional Court to be able to function we until that date must choose the Constitutional Judges so as not to enter the possible Constitutional Crisis. She answered as we know 24 candidates on a scheduled call, three times as much as she chooses. Yesterday we had six and a half hours of debate on the Constitutional Committee on Candidates where questions were raised, etc. All 24 have appeared before the Constitutional Committee. There was an observation that during the work of the Constitutional Committee there had been a session of the Constitutional Committee, so some members of the Constitutional Committee could not attend the session of the Constitutional Committee, the Constitutional Committee, and I am surprised that someone could ask such a question when they were here since '90. To date, it was a practice that during times, sometimes, I don't say that it was always, but it was constantly and continuously held by committees and when the Parliament met. And I can't be surprised... that within 6 and a half hours, individual members of the Committee could not have come to the Committee on the Constitution, at least an hour or two, because these 7 to 9 were all the time, they were never below 7, and there were no more than 9, meaning of a possible 12 members of the Committee on the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This shows the interest of individuals in general work, and they are now dramaticizing the importance of the election, and they did not find it necessary for them to stop by the board for 6 and a half hours. Please, I'm saying what I'm saying here that I'm going to say and no one's going to distract me in saying what I've just written down. Why is the constitutional crisis possible? It is possible because in the middle of the 9th month, some mentioned the extraordinary session of the Parliament as if it were an extraordinary situation, so it is necessary to convene an extraordinary Assembly. A regular session of the Assembly starts from September 15th, so a session of the Constitutional Judges Assembly is possible in the middle of September. Let's take what's possible to happen, and it's possible because we saw it in the judge's election... that it lasted months because for the first time no one was chosen, so again calling, and again the whole procedure, etc. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Let's take them not to be chosen, as possible at the 9th month. What does that mean? This means calling again, but Parliament should also disband at the 10th month in order to hold elections at the 11th month, and then I don't know if such a scenario would be who could choose those constitutional judges and that they could perform 7.12 when they should perform... The old court. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] So it's a timing that has to ensure the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. I'm not saying that tomorrow or any day all judges would be elected. But if the existing five judges are elected two, three or five courts can work. But if she's not chosen, then she can't work. We are responsible for the constitutional functioning of the state and the Croatian Democratic Community will insist that the state operates on the basis of the Constitution and that there is no constitutional crisis over the election of the Constitutional Court judges. Therefore, I was alone to postpone until the 9th month. But when they explained to me that it was possible not to be selected and that the call should be called again and re-scheduled, is it possible to choose in the constitutional time until the meeting of this Assembly, which also under the Constitution, should be disbanded at a certain time so that elections that are scheduled to be held in November this year can be held? Therefore, I would like to make these things public and loudly known to all those who would potentially dispute the procedure. No one can dispute a procedure that is democratic under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Law. And it's been spent until this moment completely legal and based on the Constitution. We think we should try to pick constitutional judges tomorrow. Of the 24 is proposed 10, which is 25% more than is chosen, which is also in line with the regulations that we have adopted. I don't see why you wouldn't do that. And if we don't do it by the end we have a fix at the 9th month when it's possible to choose the other ones who aren't elected tomorrow. But it can happen that at the 9th month none of them are elected. And this case of the election of this one court of the Constitutional Court has shown that this can go away in a few months. Who will take responsibility for the constitutional crisis that would arise because we didn't select judges of the Constitutional Court in time? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94369	Time out 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. And since I quote, under Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, conducts the procedure of running judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and proposing the selection of the Assembly, since this phase of the procedure has been consolidated and that the Committee on the Constitution has conducted the procedure and candidacy and established the procedure for proposing candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court judges should now, in the nature of the matter, open the debate on the report of the Committee's proposal for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. And before that, I have a respected representative, Milanka Opačić, on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we used this 15-minute break for short consultation at the club, so please just a few minutes to say some of our views. On behalf of the club, we would like to say that we believe that this procedure, in addition to the judges of the Constitutional Court, is actually a kind of precedent in the Croatian Parliament in just two days. We believe that it is in some way a rape of the parliamentary procedure and we believe that it is actually one message to the Croatian public that only one party sits in this Parliament and sits only the parliamentary majority who has decided by its power not to have arguments but by the power of the hands that it has in Parliament to decide on eight judges of the Constitutional Court. We therefore believe that in our act when we asked you yesterday for talks, for consultations on the election for eight judges because we thought that we could talk in a way that we could sit together at a table as it has always been in this building on key issues so that we could agree on some criteria for them to get the highest quality judges of these twenty-four candidates we had. Unfortunately, you didn't agree to that yesterday. Today we already have a final decision of the Constitutional Committee, and now we will discuss it, which means that you have made the decision to decide as a majority in this House about eight judges of the Constitutional Court. As much as you bear all responsibility and cannot be said that the responsibility is borne by the opposition parties unless the constitutional judges are elected on time. On the other hand, we would like to tell you on behalf of the club that this is certainly an irresponsible behaviour and towards the Croatian public who had the right to know who the candidates were for the judges of the Constitutional Court. I'm asking you, Mr. President of 151 MPs, who here knows who they're voting for tomorrow. If we were to ask people here, especially, about some of the names on this list, believe me, they wouldn't know anything about these people. There's a very small circle of people who move so in the judiciary, legal profession, colleges, who know maybe a number of candidates and know something about them. Everyone else doesn't know. We at the SDP club can't accept the way we vote on people without knowing anything about them because it's irresponsible. I think voting on a party machine to get someone to write me a ballot with eight names on it, so I vote for them even though I don't know anything about them is the irresponsible behaviour of a parliamentary representative to all those who voted for us. It is irresponsible to the Croatian public. So, in this kind of way of choosing eight judges of the Constitutional Court, we cannot accept it because that kind of vote and that kind of irresponsibility is an absolute party to us. You are definitely responsible for the procedure in this House, but you are also responsible for the democratic standards that you have greatly reduced compared to everything we have had in recent years. And finally, because of all these arguments, because we do not want to be irresponsible to the Constitutional Court, because we will choose people and who are eight judges of the Constitutional Court, because we do not want to be irresponsible to the Croatian public and ultimately irresponsible to the work for which we are elected here, we will not participate in the discussion of eight judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94372	I'm sorry to hear that. I don't think a single letter can be sent to any of the objections that strictly legal norms have not been fully implemented so far. Someone say and show which norm or rules or laws, or constitutional law on the Constitutional Court is violated or passed, one norm. Just let him name that norm and let no one appeal to his opinion of the norm. I quote that the Committee on the Constitution has acted entirely "lege artis" in full, throughout the procedure so far, by conducting the procedure of running for judges of the Constitutional Court and proposing elections in the Assembly. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you've made your point on behalf of the SDP club. I've come to my senses. Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94373	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. After this extra-business time-out, it's not clear what now. Are you opening a discussion about the committee's report because the material is divided and you're calling to say which business provision has been violated? That's what we asked you to discuss with me yesterday at 13:30. You said tomorrow at 9:00, but after sharing this material, I don't really see what I'm talking about anymore. The decision has been made on the board, the candidates have been established, you have the opportunity to vote and choose. Take your pick. Whether candidates who are thus established and accept the duties of the Constitutional Court judges will be left with them. You accuse us, and as an example of a difficult procedure, you state the choice of one judge whose choice lasted six months. Whose fault? Who made the appointment? We? You're saying it's our fault that that judge was elected for six months or the reasons were that some who promised votes from the ruling majority did not give as they did today on vacation one, before the rest of the second, after the third. And in debate the fourth. I want to convince you that our request to postpone the final decision in September has no politics behind it. That the Committee on the Constitution can also sit and work after the constitutional break. And that fear to enter the constitutional crisis is a child's game and an attempt to intimidate on the basis of one example that some agreements within the coalition are not... In what way is it so terrible that we also require that parliamentary representatives have at least a week of time to learn about materials, résumés, their answers to questions and agreement on the procedure to vote? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who is afraid that this 152-year-old woman and her husbands are unable to make a decision in September on the choice of the Constitutional Court which is crucial for the election process. And the question we've been asking for two days. Why such speed? What's the secret? Are you asking which business provisions have been violated? Until this moment, Mr. President, none of them. No business or constitutional provisions have been violated. And we didn't even object to that. But I ask you all the time and finally answer me why you didn't accept the conversation and the deal yesterday? Why do you claim that we are obstructing the election attempt and why today the Committee has decided to enter so firmly with the 10 candidates' candidacy even though they knew, even though they knew that the three strongest opposition parties did not want to participate. So what now? To seek the protection of the president of the state? The Constitutional Court? In 12 years, the word will surely be passed. And tomorrow's the day. You can insist on making a decision. So elected people in the Constitutional Court will have one stain from the very beginning. They will not be elected by Parliament. It's the ruling majority. And it's up to them to decide which of them will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94374	You're telling yourself that no legal norm of business or constitutional is injured. That's good. Secondly, no one, no one has accused you, you or anyone else of anything related to those problems that have arisen with the judge of the Constitutional Court and one candidate. Please, please, and I've only talked about this as well as the president of the club about how problems have arisen, how difficulties have arisen, how long the procedure for selecting a judge of the Constitutional Court took place. There's no speed at all. There's no speed. When, on the moment the notice came from the President of the Constitutional Court to highlight the term of office of eight judges, I was in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act of the Rules of Procedure only automatically forwarded it to the President of the Constitutional Committee to call for an ad, a competition for judges of the Constitutional Court. That's what the board president called a committee meeting. On the basis of this session, the Committee unanimously concluded that this ad should be called unanimously. And that ad within 15 days, all the candidates had the right to come forward. Afterwards, the Committee on the Constitution carried out the necessary triage. Therefore, both time and every possible way is respected are all legal norms and is not any speed. And therefore the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Please, President of the Constitution Committee, go ahead. What? [[The intruders don't understand.]] You've already called. [[The intruders don't understand.]] You've already called. ... We'll open the debate now, and then you'll get back to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, nice, that's it. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94375	Mr. President. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as already here and by colleagues who are now leaving the session has already acted fully in accordance with the Constitutional Law, the Constitutional Court fully in accordance with the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] At the beginning of the 6th month, we were informed by the President of the Constitutional Court that on 7 December 2007, the term of office of eight judges of the Constitutional Court expires. We have issued a public call to all institutions, legal associations, all relevant entities to direct their proposals to the court's candidates, to the judges of the Constitutional Court. After the 15-day procedure following the publication of that public invitation in the National Journal, after 15 days have passed and another 2 or 3 days for those applications that came through the post office, we set out at the meeting this week, precisely Tuesday, all 20, a list of 24 valid candidates. So there are 24 people who all meet the conditions of being judges of the Constitutional Court. That's when I specifically and decidedly stated, not a colleague of Lesar was right to say then how we'd do it in the fall. I said we'd be able to complete this procedure by the end of this session, so until 15.7. And if we don't choose all the judges that we have enough time left to carry out the procedure for them in the fall. So, to meet us as a committee at 8 months, to discuss a new public call and then at 9 months, and even if we fail, then we still have another month. It's not our fault, it's been said here for the first time in history and so on, but it's not our fault. For the first time, we are indeed in a time seal, for 15.7 ends this session of the Parliament. It is new in 15.9. and the judges' term of office expires on 7 December. So, we have very little time, and we are taught by the experience of selecting a judge whom we did not in spite of the debate presented by the almost general consensus for the Constitutional Court judge we chose, we did not manage to choose in the first round, but we chose him for five months. And that's why, taught by such experience, we can't go into gambling and wait for the ninth month because we don't know how it's going to go. We have to do everything we can today. The Constitution Committee did just that. So we made a public call. We've processed all the bids that have arrived. Twenty-four bids have arrived. We had a public conversation with all the candidates yesterday from half past noon to half past nine p.m. I can also say thank you to colleagues who have now left the assembly because they have been very actively involved in this work, which I am particularly pleased with. There were never fewer than seven people in the assembly when we were having a conversation. As you can see today, very positive reactions have been reported in the media. We've spoken thoroughly to the candidates just to get a picture and get an impression of what people are, whether they're professional, what their hardworking courts are like. Because really, what my colleague Opačić said we're not an expert committee. They all have the conditions to be, but through the conversation we also got the impression of their worldly horizons, their worthy courts and other things. Afterwards, I convened a session today in nine hours where I said we would go to establish a narrow list, because the basis of the provisions of the law makes up a narrow list which the law says should normally contain more candidates than the one elected. We're still yesterday, and today we confirmed that we're going with a list of ten candidates. Eight picks, we go with a ten-list, which is 25% more than what's chosen. We didn't want to go with too wide a sheet to spread the number of our votes, but to be as effective as possible. But in a conversation just along with colleagues, it is suggested that we move that committee session from nine o'clock this afternoon to be able to consult within our clubs. I accepted well-intentioned and in the morning we held a session with two points of the agenda, and we moved this point over and I set up a session at five p.m. which was even from colleagues who were both accepted by noon and said you went out, you accepted our proposal. And here's what I have to say to surprise you at five o'clock this afternoon when we met, when we were supposed to discuss all this together. The opposition colleagues expressed this attitude on the board as well. There are eight of us left in the session of the Constitution Committee. We have 12 members. So we have quite a quorum. We're here for work. We analyzed all those results and public conversations we had yesterday. We analyzed the candidates' applications once again, and then we put together this narrow list that we just delivered to you. The narrow list makes up Prof. Dr. Jasna Omejec, master Ivan Matija, professor Aldo Radolović, Dr Marko Babić, Boris Koketi, Dr Mario Jelusic, Snježana Bagić, Milka Savic, Mirjana Juric, Srecko Jelinić. We made sure that all criteria were met, and criteria of expertise and gender equality. You can see that we have three women here from the 10 candidates proposed. We made sure national minorities were represented. And that's what we took care of. We made sure that all segments of law were represented. So, both civil and civil, and public administration, and state administration, and international law. Indeed, all of these segments have been taken into account and these people who are here on the list absolutely meet all these conditions. We do this the way if we accept this, so if we choose eight of these 10 we're going to have experts represented for all segments of rights. I think the proposal is very correct, but whether or not we're going to choose whether or not these people are going to get the votes they need, I don't know. But if we fail to do so, then there's plenty of time left for us to re-invoke the session of the Constitution committee in the eighth month, to prepare until 15.9., and to vote on what's left of us, so if not then and we still have a 15.9 backup team on the way. I think this is a very efficient, very correct way of working. Allow me, Mr. President, for a short while, to just cross the line of reasoning and say what led us to give each of these proposed candidates confidence. For Professor Ald Radolovic, the Committee was defined for its impressive résumé, broad education, interest, professional and public action, and a positive impression from the public conversation. Mr. Radolovic is the president of the County Court in Pula. He's a professor at the Faculty of Law in Rijeka. He made a really great impression. Covers civil law, covers property-legal segments. Indeed, an expert who deserves to be found there. For Dr Marko Babic, the current lawyer, the committee has defined itself as a lawyer and has acted on its own in the area in which the Constitutional Court intervenes most, and because of the positive impression from the public conversation. Mr. Marko Babic is a lawyer. He was also a candidate at the last one. He's stepped down. At the time we chose Professor Krapco, however Marko Babic is famous, he published numerous works just related to privatisation, for conversion. It is something that the Constitutional Court is also an area that is very important. For Boris Koketti, we have identified the current assistant minister of justice for his role in taking care of land books and catasters, his public action, and a positive impression from the public conversation. I don't have to say much about Boris Cocketti. He was often here on behalf of the Ministry of Justice explaining the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice here, the government and indeed great progress has been made in handling land books, and that is where Mr. Boris Koketti has done a really big part of the work. Dr. Marija Jelusic's professor, the committee was defined on the basis of his scientific and professional action as a professor at the constitutional law department of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, his public action and a positive impression from the public conversation. Mario Jelusic, in the legal public, is a well-known expert in constitutional law, an expert in electoral law, something that is clearly needed by the Constitutional Court. We also have a candidate, Snježana Bagic, who I don't have to say much about, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. The Committee was defined because of its professional, public action in the area of property law relations, continuous professional training during its work experience and analytical approach to legal problems which it held during the public conversation. Also very often on behalf of the government, it defended the bill's proposals, part of our negotiating team on the issues of the judiciary. Indeed a very competent, professional person who can greatly contribute and improve the work of the Constitutional Court. Milka Savic is a current lawyer who deals mostly with civil, labour and housing law. He acts publicly as a prominent member of the Serb community involved in protecting and promoting human and minority rights. The Committee has been identified as meaning for her, because of her professional public action and the positive impression she left on us. We have thus fulfilled that obligation for the participation of national minorities by taking care of it as well. For Master Mirjana Juricic, the current judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee was defined for its professional action in the administrative field and for the positive impression also from the talks. I just want to say one thing. The administrative court is a very difficult segment, a very difficult segment. A lot of work in the Constitutional Court has to do with management. Mrs. Mirjana Juricic moves the norm by 40 to 50%. A truly worthy judge, a worthy official, and we feel that it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to do so. Dr. Srecko Jelinić's professor, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Economics in Osijek, an external associate of the Faculty of Pedagogues in Osijek, was chosen by the board for his impressive resume, his professional public action in the country, abroad and positive impression from public conversation. Ten minutes would probably have to say the least to read the articles he published, where he participated in lectures, indeed a very professional competent person, also covers a segment of civil law, commercial law. External member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, indeed absolutely has a place. We would like to point out that the procedure for running and proposing elections for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has been fully transparent, and representatives of the OSCE, GONG and the press have attended the committee's meetings. Indeed many representatives were in public conversation, everything was transparent, everything was public, and I would say that the board only kept one continuity of work, and that is that positive actually way of working that everything we do is open to the public. That's how we did it when we had the choice of one Constitutional Court judge and then when we failed to choose the second time when we managed to choose. Here, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94376	You didn't mention two candidates on the front page, Jasna Omei and Ivan Matija.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94377	I apologize, Jasna Omejej and Ivan Matija are the judges of the Constitutional Court who have also made a great impression in talking to the members of the Committee on the Constitution. These are candidates whose work in the Constitutional Court is indeed very positive and therefore the Committee has also chosen to propose these two candidates, and ultimately for the sake of a certain continuity in the work of the Constitutional Court. Mr. President of the Constitution Committee, as you yourself have stated, has fulfilled everything the Law has imposed on us and we propose to the Croatian Assembly that between the 10 proposed candidates make the eight choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94378	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected deputy president of the House of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94379	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will, I said procedure earlier an hour ago that I had to say as a member of the board who participated in the committee's work from the very beginning to the end, and I don't want to talk about it. I will speak here as president of the HDZ Club from a more political position and possible reflections on the constitutional state, constitutional position and the possibility of coming to a constitutional crisis if we do not elect the judges of the Constitutional Court. First and foremost, we weren't for the store and that's the real reason and the real truth of what these benches are empty here. So we are not prone to trade, we are more prone to other economic branches, but here we are not exactly for trade, because the procedure that no one has disputed and those who have left the Parliament is perfect and to the end, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Law. The president of our board, Mr. Bošnjakovic, read what made us define these 10 names of 24. I'm going to show some more features here, look at it like this, so we have a master's degree and a doctorate of 70% of the proposed ones. So 7 out of 10 is that from conjecture, expertise, scientific approach to legal science, knowledge about it, etc. Secondly, 30% are women who, in my opinion, satisfys even though never too many women, but I think that data can be positively evaluated. University professors at law schools 4 or 40%. Territorial representation as much as I could, perhaps a little missing, but here is Professor Dr. Jasna Omjej Slavonia, Master Ivan Matija Podravina, Professor Dr. Aldo Radolović Istria, Dr. Marko Babić Slavonia, Boris Koketti Slavonia, originally I think, but lives in Zagreb, but so little it is not strictly whether, but mostly it is. Docent Dr Mario Jelušić Zagreb, Snježana Bagić Zagreb, Milka Savić Zagreb, in brackets (Lika, origin), Master Mirjana Juric Zagorje and Professor Dr. Srecko Jelinić Slavonia. I must regret to say that no candidate from Dalmatia has passed, and one 4.5 has passed from Slavonia. Why thank God? [[Intruder: Thank God.]] So, all of this if you put yourself under the bat with what the president of the Committee here has said, I think all the criteria that would define the parliamentary representatives for the election of the Constitutional Court judges are represented in the most responsible way here. Now here, colleagues have tried to justify that they do not accept a possible accusation or that I can thus say responsibility for the possible challenge of the constitutional crisis. However, from the example of one judge's election, I will repeat this once again to give you a possible script due to the timing that awaits us in the fall, which is that we chose one Constitutional Court judge on two tours and that we had to call again and that it was several months since that first call to the final election of one Constitutional Court judge. I now want to, I do not want to speculate in the sense that theoretical possibilities exist to choose and tomorrow all personally, but let me doubt it, of course, that I would like to choose all eight, but if you choose 2, 3, 4 or 5 there is no constitutional crisis, there is no possibility that at the 9th month if we do not choose the judges to welcome 7.12 without the Constitutional Court, and then comes the legitimacy of the elections in question because an integral part of the electoral process is the Constitutional Court with all its powers under the law and constitution. Which means now what is our responsibility or someone's irresponsibility. It consists of assuming, theoretically, that the election of the last, this last Constitutional Court judge is very possible and that practically no one is elected, no one gets 77 votes and comes 10 months when a call has to be called again. Watch the 15-day call, committee, previous debate, etc., proposing to a parliament that is no longer available, because elections will be called and the parliament will be disbanded, because we said that at the 11th month, we wanted to hold elections on a regular basis, a regular procedure. So not looking at this possible scenario, I'm just saying this right now for beginners, that's all you know, of course, don't tell me. I don't underestimate you, but I want this debate to be recorded here, because it's going to be the same tomorrow if you don't accidentally select enough judges that they're not guilty because we're most of them so why didn't we choose them. So in no way do they want to be neither co-criminal nor guilty. They just wanted to, and they wanted a store that's the real reason for this. Now let's think about it. As HDZ, we have not proposed from our ranks any candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge, a fellow SDP has run for office, and if we analyze the previous Constitutional Court meeting, the only candidate of 24 candidates has not been in this case as you can see who was the representative of the HDZ, and a colleague of Matija has passed, and it has been well that he has passed. Nice to meet you. Mrs. Omeiec has passed, Mrs. Savic has passed however anyone observes I think it is good for a minority representative to be in the Constitutional Court. So this Constitutional Committee, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is very responsible and correct and from the point of view of expertise, scientific characteristics, these candidates who are also scientists, from the point of view of women, from the point of view of territorial representation, in brackets (except Dalmatia), we can be satisfied. I'm here with my colleague Letica, we're the Dalmatians there on the board, so we haven't been able to pick anyone on that regional basis, and so is Rade. Here's Rade's third member. The third member of the board, here we were three, here's how biased we were. Were we biased? So they have no reason to, Mr. Lesar who is, here, giving us lectures on how the public needs it, etc. We sat there for seven hours to come to the board, to ask questions. Mrs Lalić, who today on the Committee, said that committees were being held during the session of the Parliament, so she was in charge of the debate, although she debated here at the Parliament for 7 hours, that no one could get a word but she and such things we listened to as an excuse. It's all onions and water. We are responsible for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court and our coalition partners and we bear that responsibility. Our backs are wide, and the responsibility is consistent with that back and we'll try to choose it tomorrow, I invite you all to come here. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94380	HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94381	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian... Don't worry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will speak here from one position of MPs only more remembered by colleagues Shex and colleagues Bebic. They've been here since '90, I've been here since '92. A year. And I've been through all sorts of procedures. ... Well, I, Mary, knowly avoid saying exactly that we don't discover the years to remember for a long time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can say for myself that I remember for a long time, but here if a colleague Zubović insists there is also a colleague byte and a few more of us there, but actually we belong to those who really remember for a very long time. And there were words of all kinds of procedures in all kinds of times that weren't every time both cheerful and happy and skillful. And what happened in '99. For years, we said it wasn't right. You remember. It was also like this one time narrow or chess so chess players would say teat note. And then there was a political agreement. Political agreement was reached. I took part in that political agreement. Someone's gonna say it was a store back then. It's possible that it could be called that, that it was also political trade. I still think today wasn't a bad methodology. There's something about it. Because the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is a couple of excellent political matters as much as we try to hide behind the résumés, behind all the good reasons, but among other things, we don't have to run from not being a politician. Another thing is that perhaps within this political agreement that the composition could have been different. But we didn't, and then we didn't just burden those people, but also the institution they came into, and she's really been working under that mortgage in the last eight years, which isn't easy at all, and I think she's been making it even if the government has changed very good decisions in the meantime. And that's also a fact. Although I'm saying they acted with a mortgage. And then we said it would change the procedure. And the procedure has changed. We remember that, too. And out of these present thirteen, five were chosen under that new procedure. The same thing we did in that new procedure. I'm also trying to remember today, too, where the board was missing in this, in all of these shops, the advances that he was doing? And with the greatest effort and with the greatest criticism, I as an old Zagorec if I may be told who plays Slavonic I am in the spirit of opposition. But I'm also very critical and self-critical, I couldn't find where that procedure was missing, no. She really wasn't missing. It wasn't wrong in the procedure. And all yesterday both journalists and representatives of GONG and OSCE praised exactly the colleague of Bosnjakovic, who had indeed done this very well and wisely, but also a large part of the board that had been sitting there for seven hours and doing the job. And that was the work of the board if I'm not mistaken and two opponents. And also with very constructive questions, interesting questions. And I'm saying it's not a simple thing from half two to half nine, it's clear. But not only physically, but I really think it's been a great effort. But I'm going back to this procedure that we've actually been pulling out of somewhere since 2001 when there was that first constitutional court completion since '99. A year. And it was the same procedure. Also the President of the Court, the Constitutional Court called, the chairman of the board, called the competition, the people answered, the board was also doing some selection, and here we were voting. And I never remember there were any bigger problems, if we hadn't met... I don't know that it's supposed to be a dunsta or something, but simply what the board has proposed has joined the vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how four judges of the Constitutional Court were elected. In the spring of this year, he was elected fifth. You're a lot of even have to admit to tolerance today and apparently there's something a little better to remember when choosing this last judge of the Constitutional Court. The first time it didn't work out because those who voted for him didn't come to the vote when the debate was being held. A colleague Krapac received 73 votes, and later the newspaper wrote that I was his cause, because he was not elected, and no one mentioned the SDP club, nor the HNS club, nor the IDS club, who publicly said that his colleague Krapac was a better candidate than his colleague Koketti, but when the vote was not sabotaged by HDZ, he really gave 73 votes to me as fellow Krapac, and twenty got a colleague Koketti. See, those are the facts. And that's why, and it's because of the public's choice, this judge has lasted so long. And now he's right about 6 June, 6 June this year was this... when it is six months before the election, before the end of the term of office when the President of the Constitutional Court must warn the Chamber or the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee that he must call a tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, it is because 77 votes are to be received and a whole series of really issues are to be opened, problems. It may happen that no one is elected, precisely because of the possible dispersion of the vote, and all those who are proposed may be chosen. And that's possible. Even about that, let's just say that's a little less likely, but theoretically, even that possibility is possible. It's possible that tomorrow, if there were a hundred of them here, it could happen that because of dispersion, everyone would be elected, then we would have, we'd have a lot of problems again. I don't know how we'd get rid of that situation. And I can say that here, I must say this is one of the most correct choices that has been made in this House at all. I remember how we chose the Programme Council at the last session of 2003 that called the Parliament, how otherwise, in fact, as they were chosen, we chose not to know that administrative council of HINA, nor, I say they weren't, I mean, they weren't always great situations, but I remember this was really done in the leg of the artis, very correct. And just with that possibility that here it is, today the board has actually met in some way early in the morning and precisely because of the possibility of some alignment transferred at 5 o'clock. And I'm also, I'm still wondering where the point is, and where was that really missing? The more I didn't have a candidate like this... as a colleague of Bosnjakovic's or someone else's, but I went in there and out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know about any candidates, but I don't know about politics. I don't know about politics. I said that I don't know where it belongs, except what we can possibly speculate about, but there's actually been an optimal solution. And I have to commend my fellow Flightman who just for the board today at 5 o'clock made for this narrow choice, made criteria that I can actually say, that I can get into any textbook as to how to choose. The first criterion was the criterion of professional excellence and professional integrity of ethics, which is important as a prerequisite for the elimination of these candidates. Then the structure of the case that... The case that's being resolved by the Constitutional Court, and that's where the balance is made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, the balance of science and profession representation, and then approximately the same were 30% of scientists, 70% of practitioners, minimum sexual justice, regional diversity, and that in some ways not all of them were from Zagreb alone. The insurance of continuity, it's also important, but I'm still afraid we're re-establishing a mortgage for these people who will be elected, but not only to them, but also to the institution they must represent. And two additional criteria are business discrimination, so minority judges and the relatedness of the candidate's value profile. You see, and it's really gotta admit that I have nothing to add to this and nothing to take, that it's exactly how it came to be then that each of the eight board members who stayed and circled their ten and in some way we got to this triage. And it's very interesting that indeed, it wasn't a big dispersion of votes, but it was almost unanimously proposed by these ten candidates that we have here. And I think it's true that the HSLS club is going to stand behind this proposal from the board that's why. ... I hope so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I hope this is on some channel plus transferring and it's going to come, a team more because we can't take danger from the constitutional crisis. I don't know if the MPs know but that's exactly what happened in Ukraine, right at the time of the election, so the Council had to delegate its judges to the Constitutional Court in order to enforce the legality and constitutionality of the elections in Ukraine. Ukraine is a big country, we know what was going on there, but there's really no need just because there are these theoretically possible reasons that neither now nor in July, but God's not even in September, and that no one is actually elected. And it can really create an opportunity, we enter the election year, that is, what Bosnjakovic was talking about in time, it is not December 7th. That's what we have to count on in October, somewhere in October the Parliament will disband. And I as a responsible representative with my long internship, only these two seniors have the honor of being longer in this House than I am, and I must not and do not want to take responsibility for the possible constitutional crisis. And that is why I hope that tomorrow the Parliament will show its seriousness and responsibility, and I would also really pray to the media that the public actually accurately detects problems. The problems are very serious and I think this is an irresponsible game. This kind of thing is true, there was a political consensus yesterday, and today something happened during this night, and it really shows that we are playing around very serious things relating to the future functioning of such an important institution as the Constitutional Court. I hope it doesn't happen, and I hope it's still here tomorrow. And finally, tomorrow is the last day that always has a specific weight because we're taking a break, a break, the Parliament continues there somewhere in September, and then always a day has some solemn character in it, and I don't think that this ceremony can reflect better than just to somehow ensure the continuity of the uninterrupted work of such an important institution as the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94382	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSU respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94383	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry we're this small and we're discussing such an important thing, because what I'm saying I'd like to say to everyone that we know how we behave to each other and how we look at each other. We from the Croatian Retirement Party to this House of the High have come to honor our mandate in one of the tolerated and non-conflict atmospheres. We want to carry out our duties in the Croatian Parliament until the end by giving priority to the purpose and purpose of our existence over constant nuances. We think it's wise to know how to bite if it's all wrong for us and give priority to the solutions. So let’s give priority to practicality over constant nuances. Not constantly looking for ideal solutions because ideal in life is not too often but looking for practical, implementing and acceptable solutions. The list of ten candidates proposed by the Committee here meets our criteria regarding professional characteristics, national and regional belongings, as this brings into the Constitutional Court the spirit and rhythm of the life of the entire population of Croatia and all its parts. I trust people, and I'll always trust people. I believe, especially in this case, my colleague Letica, who has helped to carry out a fair selection of 24 candidates to 10 candidates on professional grounds, and I think he has already received public praise from those who are not presently in this assembly. Please imagine us in another case. Should I be against professional access and good work from the Croatian Pension Party because there is not one member of the HSU who was among the twenty-four candidates on the list. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am personally pleased with the professor of Dr Aldo Radolovic of authentic Istrian, a well-known and recognized expert in Pula, Istria and beyond who is among these ten candidates, and I will certainly help with my vote that he is elected. I don't know if it will be the will of the majority but it certainly satisfies in some way the desire of Istrian and beyond to be represented in this high, or to be represented in the Constitutional Court. So, ultimately the Croatian Party of Retired with its participation and in this debate and election of the Constitutional Court judges of these famous ten choose eight gives full legitimacy to this election, I hope the President does not again in the election commission. It's something that I keep getting caught up in by these election commissions, but okay, so we'll appreciate it. So it's our support for this proposal and we'll finish our work tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94384	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94385	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have been blessed by God with one fault that I can be not only on the side of the minority, but I can also be alone against all. But this time, I am extremely pleased that the wise management of this Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system by Mr Drazen Bosnjak has turned this committee into a new type of institution, an institution within which it is not traded but is trying to achieve a general benefit by means of professional procedures, and I think that the application of 24 candidates and candidates, twenty-four is due to the correct selection of the previous election of only one constitutional judge. In that sense, those members of the board who are unfortunately forced by party accounts, disciplines or party violence have withdrawn from this House have missed one handsome opportunity or a smart opportunity to make a precedent at the system and public hearings in this High House and Selection system, and in this sense I regret that they are very active and constructive members of our board before all that I think of Vice President Matu Arlovic and Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović whose ideas I have installed in these criteria. Today they were forced to stay away from the state interest for party reasons. We think that at this point it is necessary to be on the side of the Croatian Constitution and do everything in our power to prevent the slightest sign of the constitutional crisis. As for my personal motivation, she was very pragmatic. There's a terrible 2002 court in my book. There's a chapter called the moral breakdown of opposition. They relate, the chapter speaks of unfair political trade in the election of the current constitutional judge. Although I changed my mind about many people there, there is still one man who claimed that money was neither moving nor moving. We have a man who is suspected of various unholy acts. Most of this Constitutional Court's renaissance is beneath its constitutional function, and in that sense, the great contribution of all the members of that committee and I am sorry, and I suspected that such a thing might happen this morning. If it turns out that my information is correct tomorrow. Unfortunately, all my bad information is mostly correct, and that is that the newer young president of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia has called for his narrow team to be on Bjelosica tomorrow and has insisted that all parliamentary representatives come. If that happens, and it would be good if they planned it, but now they're listening to what I'm saying to pull out of Bjellosica and show up in this House tomorrow because the election of eight judges in the Constitutional Court is not a cat's cough. This is a major event in the development of Croatian statehood, Croatian democracy, and it would not be good to continue one of the practices I described in the new book "Flying Over the Coward's Nest" in the chapter "All Fears and Pulling SDP". In fact, this party, when something is important, is usually withdrawn from the assembly for some of my incomprehensible reasons. Falling out of the assembly is either running away from the debate, or from responsibility, or from other reasons. I would especially like to thank my colleague Silvana Hrelja for his generosity. Namely, when I left home, I tested among other things my son, who recently graduated from law school, and he recommended to me a few people. One of them was Peter Novoselec. He said it was a magnificent professor, a wonderful man, an internationally-respected expert, and I was very sorry to say yesterday something that certainly won't bring me a vote, popularity in the older population. But I am of the opinion that we should not be elected judges of the Constitutional Court to choose people who, at least half of their term of office, will not be welcomed in a position at the age of normal and cardinal retirement. Usually, constitutional judges in Europe retire between 68 and 72 years of age, and these were the reasons why I and that little precedent behind which I did not stand formal but in human terms was included and I am glad that you are pleased that Mr. Radolovic was chosen as much as I see with the great majority. All I'm saying is that tomorrow it's gonna be very important for you majority coalitions to get as many people as possible, to get at least three, four, five people through. It would be bad if no one would pass. I can't influence that. I don't belong to that majority ruling coalition, but I will be at the polls tomorrow and I will vote very responsibly. As far as this little test is concerned, it is based on my many years of work experience, on theories and practices of development of leadership skills within the United Nations. I've been doing different selections from the most banal where you have to choose the man who will lead your little team. I did these selections so that they would be used by old British imperial experience when they came to countries they thought were dumber than them, and they were usually much smarter than the British Empire, then they would give people some seemingly banal game. Let's just say they're stacking up cards and one man would take responsibility at a certain point in time of crisis and they'd select it for the workers. This test I did was a test of goodwill. I didn't mean to put these people in an awkward situation to ask them I don't know what's... I don't know the negotiation theories in the United States because it's unserious to bring serious people into this situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've selected a few questions, 16 unfortunately. A lot of questions where every board member, I still think he got some good impression about these people. So I haven't asked them what languages they speak, or if they're informational written. I didn't ask them how many children they had, although it would be good if they had three or four children, etc. etc. I think all in all this is the procedure thanks above all to the very wise and diplomatic leadership of our President Drazen Bosnjak, the efforts of all people, Mr. Luke Bebić, Florian Boras, in some stages even fellow Lesars who even knew how to appear here and there. But you colleagues need to understand that these people's lives are difficult. Even you in a major HDZ party are difficult for some people and in some parties that have been led very authoritarianly and much more authoritarian than I expected will become increasingly difficult. I expected that the new SDP leadership would go towards pluralising leadership. That one man will not appear in all election units. I'm glad he'll show up at the 1st constituency, and that's where we'll see how it's said to be worn in battle one-on-one. All in all, I am proud to have participated in an honorable and honest selection of people. And now I accept the position of Luke Baby. I'm sorry we didn't really push Luke and we from Dalmatia through one of our own, but we also have a prime minister who can help our end here and there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94386	Dear Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, with everything that has been said so far, absolutely support and testify as to the procedure that absolutely things have happened in an impeccable way, and in this I congratulate my colleague Bošnjakovic. But when the arguments disappear, the procedure is raped. We're witnessing it. I think it was 1994 when, in no way, certain things couldn't come, came, and we know that it was then that the serious constitutional crisis threatened. During this month, a month and a half since the election procedure of eight judges of the Constitutional Court until last night, she ruled the idyllic. A colleague, Letica, said in the Committee were active and more than actively involved and colleagues who today are not primarily members of the Committee of counterparts Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and vice president of this House, respected representative Mato Arlović. But today at 5:00, Vice President Mato Arlovic came to the Committee's meeting and said, he asked me for the first word before you opened the session and said, "I have a binding mandate to no longer participate in this Committee's work on the election of the Constitutional Court, Judges of the Constitutional Court." He continued in a way that they have too little time and other allegations that have nothing to do with it, and that's what I'm calling at that point began the rape procedure. We asked colleagues from the SDP to at least participate in the work on the adoption of criteria for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court or determining the number of candidates we will propose. The question was whether we would suggest 8 so as much as we choose or something more. The colleagues also refused to discuss these issues by repeating that they could not participate further in the Committee's work. My colleague Letica said what his reasons were. So the party chief, their young party boss, said you can't decide. There's a meeting tomorrow at Whitelight where you'll get further directives. I asked my colleague Arlovic, "Well, Mato, I didn't know that MPs had a binding mandate?" But clearly this is about a clear party path or a better party directive. Therefore, these are the reasons why the SDP will not participate in this debate. They are probably not familiar enough with the résumés of individual candidates. Perhaps we too should say something from the résumé of fellow Joseph Lek. Perhaps we should say something from John Mattia’s résumé. It obviously takes time for them to get to know these résumés further. Therefore, dear colleagues here are simply about avoiding work probably for reasons such as, as Vice-President of the House of Col. Bebic said, they were not allowed to process. A whole new concept of work has indeed been established in the way that this Committee has led. Clear criteria have also been established. Anyone could have picked up, and I think they're the best suggestions. I had a need to say this especially for reasons because it is likely that this in public will be a lot of speculation, but I have participated in the work of this Committee as a member, and I think that indeed, indeed, from the 24 candidates offered, we have proposed this House of the 10 best, respecting all these criteria that specifically helped us fellow Letica formulate. And finally to conclude. We must today be at the level of our constitutional responsibility and choose these eight judges. Because if we don't do it today or tomorrow and I'll be free to say there's a certain constitutional crisis. We can't let that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-12-0.u94388	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Resumption tomorrow at 9:00 and 9:30. At 9:30, the club has one. And in 10 votes on both this and all other points discussed. Let the MPs take the key, and let them not forget it. And a proposal for a list of candidates to elect judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 231 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the election of Constitutional Court judges will hold a secret vote since the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected. I note that the election requires most of the total number of MPs. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 232 to 238 shall apply. The ballots. And we need to determine who will be six MPs or advocates who will assist in the secret vote. Let's volunteer. First. Florian Boras one. Emil Tomljanović two. Vlado Jukic three. Silvano Hrelja Four. Ante Markov five. They're singing Six Merchants. He's here. That's it. I'm giving half an hour to vote, pick up my ballots and vote.
