ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88450	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action. In fact, this law was already in the second reading, so the government withdrew it because of the need for certain changes that the need to refer to the parliamentary procedure in the second reading. I will only briefly repeat the reasons that the changes in the law have been proposed by the Government to the existing law and amendments that occurred after the withdrawal from the second reading in the parliamentary procedure. The first change is that this law proposes that instead of companies and craftsmen, the final geodetic measurement is provided by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which is considered a more rational and cheaper solution. After completing demining operations, demining performers and craftsmen spent a lot of time on the geodetic measurement, so we believe that it is much more rational and that it will free up the capacities of the companies to carry out the primary demining business and that the geodetic measurements are performed by the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The second amendment is that the deleted provision, which stipulates that an authorised legal person and craftsman may perform search and demining tasks only with the capacities declared in the tender documentation, because there is often a need in the course of carrying out operations to engage in additional capacity and we believe that this provision will also allow demining business providers to perform tasks more quickly and efficiently. It is also proposed to allow MORH pyrotechnicians to carry out humanitarian demining operations after the end of the military service. Namely, there are a number of trained and highly trained pyrotechnicians in the MRLs, and we think it is rational for them to be allowed to leave the active military service after leaving the active military service, to enable inclusion in demining operations, because people who are qualified for demining operations are already missing in Croatia. The education of persons qualified to carry out demining operations under foreign regulations is then arranged. Foreign nationals in case of need, involvement of foreign nationals in demining operations should also be prescribed the process of verifying their knowledge or the compliance of the way in which they deal with Croatian regulations. It is then proposed to mitigate the conditions for granting powers to workers, pyrotechnicians and auxiliary staff in such a way that the offences that are being prosecuted under official duty are an obstacle to the granting of powers while some other criminal acts of minor social danger should no longer pose an obstacle to the pursuit of demining operations. A safeguard measure to carry out activities from an unlimited period of time to a limited period of one year with an increase in fines of up to 300,000 kuna has also been mitigated. In part, the provisions governing infringement sanctions for pyrotechnicians, labour leaders, auxiliary staff, pyrotechnic supervisors and supervisors have been amended in such a way as not to impose a safeguard against the exercise of activity for a certain period of time but, in such cases, the Ministry of Internal Affairs shall withdraw power for a certain period of time, immediately after the infringement has been committed, or following a case of violations of the law. This law extends the time limit prescribed for the alignment of the business of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, authorised legal persons and craftsmen until 1 September 2007, as this deadline is too short in practical application of the Law on humanitarian mine action. And the changes that occurred in this proposal in relation to the proposal that was in the second reading are that the treatment of police officers for the anti-explosion protection of the MUPs participating in control is equal to the rights of the workers involved in demining. Namely, these MP inspectors can also get hurt, and these new proposed changes suggest that police officers be leveled on the issues of the rights to which pyrotechnicians from the grounds of disability and death, so that these police inspectors also have the safety of the event of an accident regulated in the way both pyrotechnicians and other persons involved in demining. The other news is, it was added to the provision that workers in humanitarian demining operations are obliged to have a humanitarian demining card on the workshop and the conditions are laid down when the ministry will be able to confiscate that card. So these are all the proposed changes for which the Ministry of Interior and the Government believe they should contribute to increasing the efficiency and rationality of this unusually important business of demining parts of Croatia that are still mined or mined. We are sure that if the law is adopted in this proposed form, these demining operations or those involved in these activities will certainly be made possible more effectively, faster, simpler but also safer by doing this job than of particular social interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88451	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? President-in-Office of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88452	Your Honor, Mr. President! At its 97th session held on 24 May, the Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action with the final proposal for a law. After the debate, the Committee supported the Prime Minister's position and did not object to the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, assessing that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The Committee is of the opinion that the implementation of this law will qualify for more effective action of the existing demining system in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, he decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88453	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88454	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action. Mine suspected areas resulting from the war in the Republic of Croatia have twelve counties. It is already this information without indicating the area under suspicion or other data in mine suspected spaces that speaks enough about what kind of and how much problem it is. It's more than a thousand square miles and how responsible, sensitive and certainly extremely dangerous work it is when it comes to demining. That is why any amendment to the Law on humanitarian demining is welcome, it is necessary if, among other things, the result of the perceived problems of a practical nature that need to be removed regardless of the circumstances that the applicable law took effect approximately sixteen months ago. Welcome is any change that will speed up the resolution of this certainly big, huge problem for the Republic of Croatia, speed it up but not hurry at all because the mistakes caused by the speed are too expensive to pay. The safety of those who do this work must be unquestionable. Of course, their expertise and responsible performance must be unquestionable, and that is the only thing that can guarantee the safety of, for example, end-users, which is ultimately the imperative of the whole problem. When it comes to mine suspected spaces, there's something else to point out. They are located from mountain wells, rocky rocks and karsts, dense forests and wide fertile plains, especially in eastern Slavonia and Srijem, and wetlands of Kopački rit. And those oranics, sometimes fertile ornaments are no longer ornaments. These are chicars, rare and forest and the problem of Kopački rit is not even told where one of the conditions for demining is also water, so something that can't be affected at all. And solid data where they are exactly is small or almost gone. Therefore, appeal to those returning to the Republic of Croatia may have participated in setting mines to try to remember what they were doing and where they were doing. I'm sure it would be helpful. The appeal should also be given to those who perform demining tasks for a correct relationship with each other without any plantings. The practice says that, unfortunately, it is present. It is that sanctions solve it but better to prevent it than treat it. What is this proposal for amending and supplementing the law? The services of emergency interventions of police officers of the Ministry of Interior for Anti-explosive Protection are considered humanitarian demining jobs. A restrictive provision shall be deleted that authorised legal persons and craftsmen may carry out search and demining operations only with declared capacity in the tender documentation. The same, legal persons and craftsmen, are free of the obligation to apply the final geodetic diameters, which has so far extended the deadline for carrying out the works, and is obliged by the Croatian Mine Action Centre to ensure the elaborate of the final geodetic line. Pirotechnicians, workers and assistant workers on the workshop must have a certificate of humanitarian demining and therefore they are obliged to have a certificate on the workshop and a pyrotechnic overseer and a pyrotechnic supervisor. The Ministry of Defence's pyrotechnicians may carry out humanitarian demining operations in the Republic of Croatia after the end of the military service. For pyrotechnicians trained under foreign regulations, it is necessary to determine whether their training is appropriate. The conditions for the granting of power shall be reduced and in connection with the possible committing of criminal offences. Provisions are deleted on the rights of members of the family of the dead pyrotechnicians to enrol in educational institutions following the Constitutional Court's decision on the identical provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The proposal to amend and supplement this law also harmonises criminal provisions and regulates criminal sanctions for pyrotechnicians, labour leaders, auxiliary staff, pyrotechnic overseers and supervisors. The deadline for the Croatian Mine Action Centre as well as authorised legal persons and craftsmen to comply with the provisions of the humanitarian mine action law until 1 September 2007. In the belief that the proposed amendments and additions to this law will mean a shift in demining, meaning speeding up the whole process, again stressing the acceleration of the whole process, guaranteeing security in the demining areas of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88455	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88456	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. So when we talk about humanitarian demining, let's remind ourselves of the first current state with which we can't and can't be satisfied. In March of this year, we had a demining report for 2006. Unfortunately, there are still 1,000 km of square square miles of mines in Croatia. We know ourselves that demining dynamics are not good. Last year, barely a slightly less than 26 km of squares were demined, 30 were planned. So if we continue with this demining dynamic, this law will be worth at least 38 and 46 years, respectively. So, if the current dynamics were to demine slightly less than 26 km square years, that means that Croatia would be mineless only in 2053 or if it were to be demined by the dynamics planned and that is 30 km of square Croatia without mines would be only 2045. We know that so far it's been killed by mines and unexploded killings for the period 1998-2006, so it died, 173 people died and 272 people died. If a period has been taken since 1993, more than 550 people have been killed. So to implement demining, we need a little less than 11 billion kuna. Therefore, unfortunately if this is done slowly, this law will still be worth at least 38 to 46 years. The last time we had a demining report was also a proposal for this law, we held a debate and then it happened that the government withdrew the bill. At the Club of the Croatian Party of Rights, we expected the law to be far more precise and accurate. Unfortunately, repairs have been made but no such nature has been designed to support this law for, to pass this law by emergency procedure. And that is why we suggest that the law be referred to another reading in a regular procedure. Take just an example of Article 72a and you will see how inaccurate very important and important provisions are, and that is the dictation of, say, "If you say "after the work of the pyrotechnics has been done, you will find mine-explosive assets, unexploded means of killing or their parts, the Ministry will take away his powers in time from 30 days to one year." Well, I can't think of a mine-explosive means alone, but they'll be found either by a supervisor or by an authorized person who's supposed to be doing it. Now you haven't legally regulated the situation. There are two legal situations. This means the possibility before issuing a certificate that this area is demining and after issuing a certificate. You haven't ruled out these two legal situations at all. And how and how will you apply paragraph 1 of this article when you do not have at least more detailed regulations when going from 30 days to one year. So an undetermined, indeterminate provision with no subjects, no predications, no where was it found? It means whether to issue a certificate or to issue a certificate before certification. And I don't even know how you mean to apply and implement it in practice. This is totally an inaccurate provision, but it's a very important provision, and it's an interesting legal situation to go after two things here again. Does the Ministry or does the inspector do it? Because it's the difference. The inspector as an individual means he has the authority and he has the right to make a decision, temporary bans to issue. And it's the Ministry that's showing up if there's no inspection, but there's administrative surveillance. Here's just an example of how to make those provisions that aren't totally... and could be very simple to emulate means... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which we have unfortunately had in practice in these two legal situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is the legal situation when the company got the demining job. Before issuing a certificate, it shall be checked whether the job is done as it should be done. So this is the first legal situation. So the second legal situation is that, unfortunately, this surveillance job was done and then it was established but then it was determined in the variant that someone was killed, that an unexploded murder weapon or mine explosive was found. Clearly, then, you must correct this article 72a if you want it to be applied and there is no question of how or how it will apply. Now, speaking of these situations, it's interesting why in such situations you don't, and a company that does these jobs, why you don't ban them or these measures that are envisaged because business is given to companies. It's not given to a pyrotechnician. It is therefore not good to go to an individual alone, but the company as such should also be held accountable. It is a particularly important situation that you should continue to develop by law, and that is also the question of damage compensation. Unfortunately, it has happened before, and unfortunately, the situation may be that someone gets hurt in that area that has already been issued a certificate that demining has been carried out. And in such situations whoever gets hurt means consequences and damages should go to the burden of the company doing these or similar jobs. And also when it comes to this work, we are unable to regulate that situation regarding the marking of areas under mines. 'Cause unfortunately there's been an accident that the area was mined, but these markings were removed. It is therefore necessary to go there, also to go with legal, with two legal situations. The first legal situation of a rigorous misdemeanor means that a particular area is mined. The second legal situation and the supervision and control of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which has, must lead to the obligation that the markings are set so as not to take place situations which unfortunately happen all the time. Someone takes the tag off. Come in, man... Here are the situations that you see as such that suggest that this law has not yet been done in the way that it should have been done so that everything we've had, which unfortunately we have, is being regulated legally in order to bring it down to the slightest possible extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I still don't understand why you're introducing here. We know what the situation is. With this part, we agree that the military personnel who are here are trained, trained to carry out humanitarian demining operations can be obtained in an appropriate procedure at the Ministry of Defence certificate for the performance of these tasks. Why are you bringing strangers in? Because we know the situation on the market. We had a situation both related to "Mungos" and other companies dealing with and pyrotechnics, given both the price and everything else. We don't have a clear situation here. Is that where you're going to really increase the dynamics now? Let's say that if there was an increase in the dynamics of which the president or director of the Croatian Ramination Centre spoke. He made a statement the other day that in 10 years Croatia would be demined. I don't know how it's going to be demined when we have the data on how far past year has been done, how many years have passed and how many have been left under mines. And the money situation isn't better than there's always 300 million kuna a year. Therefore, you can see how many of these legal situations are not legally defined. Which will cause problems in application and implementation, and for this reason we at the Club of the Croatian Party right propose to refer this law to another reading, and I say and we will personally help you in the sense that these provisions are precise, implementing, rather than creating an additional doubt. There's so much for now. I'm going a little wider... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88457	Thank you. HNS club. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88458	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian mine action with the Final Proposal for the Law, I think that its intensity and more or less went to facilitate the work on the ground and to make it much easier to do so. But I don't understand it in the previous presentation. I have proposed two amendments to improve this law. Some changes have been made here and made in terms of easier work and would not occur in the field of obstruction and halting the work of the senseless. However, I do not understand the amendment that I have attached, i.e. two amendments why they were not accepted when it came to the safety of the work of people working on demining and those who should live afterwards on that demining field. I think making mistakes, leaving mines on the ground, which is under mines, so that those people who made a mistake multiple times should go back to training. I don't know why it only went to punish those people for money, and not to give them a warrant that they have to go through re-schooling and training, because we know it's not some great science, that it takes the most courage and misery that people who have money will certainly not go away. That's why I don't think, as far as this part is concerned, I can't see the reason unless it's difficult for us. We don't have institutions to do this, and I have that kind of information. I talked to people working with mines on the ground, and it would further complicate their lives, so you probably managed to avoid getting people kicked out of the machine without any greater need. But I think that it should be done and that it should be possible for people who are repeatedly wrong not to be fined only in cash or I don't know how they've been deprived of their licenses for a year, but to be given the obligation to resuscitate the miner's exam. As regards the reasons, a provision has been deleted requiring the authorised legal person and craftsman to carry out search and demining tasks only with the capacities declared in the documentation offered and those working methods and equipment established by SOPA certification. I think it's a good thing that you threw it out, that it was a stupid provision that no one could benefit from, and if companies demining additional skills, people gathering, buying machines to enable them to do more work, and we know that the speed at which the demining of Croatia goes is not satisfied, and that probably if not this government any other government that comes will have to invest a little more money and resources and human resources to get rid of itself as soon as possible. We know that with some cities and places it's dangerous, not only to work in the field but also around schools, we have a danger where children are at risk if they go after the ball to get hurt. As regards Article 3, a commitment is prescribed to the Croatian Mine Action Centre to ensure the elaborate of the final geodetic diameter if it is considered a rational solution without prejudice to the extension of the deadline and implementation of the works. I think that the same thing went to efficiency and speed, and that's the same to praise, and I think that otherwise this intensity of this law is to improve, speed up the work on the ground, and in any case, I am in front of the Croatian People's Party club supporting these changes. The only political dictionary says the speed of demining, the way it works now is not satisfied but there it is. This isn't the subject of discussion, so I won't even talk about it. In any case, the Croatian People's Party will support these changes and I think they are written for a reason to facilitate the work on the ground, speed up the work itself, and in this respect we will look at them and support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88459	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88460	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct only one incorrect quote by my colleagues Kurtov, is that there is no possibility of re-editing and ensuring that humanitarian demining operations are carried out. For example, in Article 72a. in the last paragraph, it shall be clearly written with the provisions of the confiscation of powers on time from 30 days to 6 months shall be mandatory to refer to the re-editation and insurance for the conduct of humanitarian demining operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88461	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88462	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Please allow on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action with the final proposal for a law. The HSS Club will first of all support the proposal for these changes and we believe that they will contribute to the rapid and quality demining work, and when we talk about demining, then we should say that we are dissatisfied with the pace at which this demining is done. As already said in the debate from some colleagues, it is visible if at this rate we continue to take 50 years to demine all surfaces. I am particularly concerned about this as a man who works his whole life in forestry, because now, according to the list of priorities, forests and agricultural areas come while houses, apartments, roads were demining before. And it is evident that every year Croatia's forests are increasing part of the funds being allocated from their demining business. This year it's already close to 30 million, and next year it's likely to look even more. These are significant assets, and I think that the goal of the state should be that we all invest equally, not just some companies. I know that other companies and HEP, both INA and others, stand out, but it bothers me that more and more forests as a state-owned enterprise must stand out, especially knowing that several of my colleagues have already been killed in mine fields, and one good part of them has passed without injury when they encountered mine explosives. And with such a way and slowness we will take a long time to demining every corner of our homeland. Here's the secretary of state for environmental protection, and that topic is next, so I'd like to connect it to this. You see, now somewhere near 8% of the surfaces that we can say are also protected because they can't be reached, you know, because they're mined. And listen, they're protected in one way. It's just a matter of protection, isn't it? Because obviously it's not in our best interest to have such protection on those surfaces. And in that part, I don't see any rapid progress in that amount that has now been demining for the last few years is very small. Obviously, there's a good part of the funds missing that should come from some of the external resources that used to be more and more, and now it's going to seem less and less. And we're doomed to that budget we bring here. That's why my appeal if we're going to have a chance yet, we'll probably have that first quarterly part of the budget here to try as many of these funds as possible and to our colleagues who will come tomorrow, I appeal to them, that as much as possible of the budget's funds are left for demining, because it's the only way to get to a certain rapid improvement of that situation. When you look at how many people are directly killed in the demining that these dangerous jobs are dealing with now in peacetime, it's very much, it's somewhere in battle for this time. When we recently talked about the effects of the war, we saw that we have about a hundred people commit suicide annually, that's one centipede, let's say. So these are such great damages that occur if we can say them so, damage, it's because every human life is infinitely valuable. And that is why it is necessary to allocate as much resources as possible to and improve clear legal processes, to allow as simple and rapid demining as possible. When these changes you're proposing here, it would be good if these changes were changed then in some broad discussion of the device, and if we had to supplement each year, change. I think people who deal with demining know what to do. I don't think we MPs here have ever prevented any improvement in certain things. But then I find it strange that every year, here we are last year, that is, in 2006, again and again, and constantly supplementing this law. So I can't believe that people who do this work don't know what and how they should be allowed to do it more easily. And then even when you see that there are some indiscretions that have already been discussed, it's kind of bothering me, and that's why I think it's good if there's still some disagreements between the centre and the businesses that are doing these jobs, let the ministry coordinate them, and let some changes come up with a more high-quality proposal. I say, the HSS Club will support any proposal that will allow for the rapid, quality demining of all surfaces that are still left. I say, it will take us many more years, and that is why I appeal once again to try to find as much resources as possible with all possible positions. Because these 280, 300 million is not enough and is not a good pace to demining in Croatia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88463	Thank you. An individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go. He's giving up. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I won't give up. Well, any improvement in existing legal solutions is welcome, and so is this. But as the club representatives have said, I am also of the opinion that this improvement of the law will not ultimately solve the problem that we are all facing. It is still a large number of areas that are in mine suspected areas, therefore large areas that are below mines. Well, I feel free to say that this law only partially solves the problem. It improves human resources, improves the ability to do these very demanding works of demining better. But what the government has set in, as a goal, is obvious that this law does not fully resolve. In an explanation for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, the government says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Interior, as a necessary assumption for the restoration and construction of Croatia, and the safety of all its citizens in the first plan set the task of full and systematic demining the entire war of the affected area. This creates assumptions for the economic development of certain areas that have stagnated because they have been introduced as mine suspected areas.", therefore, established as mine suspected areas. Here is the burning problem that we have been warning about all along, and this is the need for both this government and every future government to provide much more financial resources to ensure, with existing human resources, with improvements that this law offers well, that this is indeed a comparative advantage for Croatia, which is the orange surfaces, so land, forests and water, as soon as possible. 40-and-over years, as long as this dynamic takes to clean up or clean up the entire Croatian space is an unacceptable long period of time. And no matter how many we introduce new people, how many we allow as well as this law is proposed, and I am sure that, we will adopt it, because I personally support it, so that it enables the employees of the Ministry of the Interior to do or finish their professional work, especially from the Ministry of Defence, that they can continue to work professionally and this part of the job, that this is good. But if we don't solve the burning problem, we don't provide enough funding we'll still have a situation in front of schools, especially in areas of special state concern, I'll say only one, and I could give you a number of examples. In the municipality of Dragalić or Stari Gradišca Maltena, you come out of the school yard to areas marked as mine suspected. I, and through this debate, simply want to appeal once again to do everything to enable a better quality of life in these areas, especially the safer life of all those who live there because it is unacceptable to have really two Croatians. Besides the one rich and poor here, we still have the large number of mines polluted and the other Croatia that is fortunately not such. The issue of solidarity and the issue of responsibility and the question of simply the need to jointly find opportunities as soon as possible to solve this other Croatia without mines, so that the satisfaction of all, especially those living in the area, will be greater. And regardless of the pleasure is a relative thing, we listened to a fellow Ledinski who talks about forests, and all the forests and everything else should, of course, come into position and the foresters, so that they can safely exploit the mineral wealth, or the richness of the forest, but all those who will enjoy the landscapes in the wealth of all our spaces. So, by supporting this law, I once again appeal that we all do the most together to make it possible, first of all, by providing financial resources, to make it possible for us to have a better quality and better life without mine suspected surfaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88465	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88466	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about a very important law, and it's good when we talk about this law, it doesn't make any political difference, because we're all about Croatia being a land without mines as soon as possible, but unfortunately the dynamics of demining so far in Croatia are not good, it's bad and we need to talk about this process to speed up. So there are still a thousand 147km of square in Croatia under mines. The demining dynamics are not good because it demines from 25 and 26 not full kilometers square to 30 in the best years and according to this dynamic means Croatia will be mineless or 2045 if it is demined according to the current planned dynamic of 30 km square or 2053 if the demining dynamics are carried out 25 km square. So first we need to talk about what we did essentially when we restored the ruined houses in the war especially in areas of special state care, people invited, people came back, that day can't get into their field, that day there's an area in his garden of maltene which is mine-suspecting because the area is mined. Take the area of Banovina, take the area of Slavonia, take the area of Dalmatia, touristly we saw the injury was a month ago in the area around Vodice. And for this reason, we are proposing that this law be directed into a second reading so that we can legally regulate all those issues that need to be regulated as such, and firstly this is an important issue to mark a mined area, i.e. areas that are suspected of or from... murderous means or mine explosives. We've seen this situation befall us. Croatian Mine Action Centre he says there are people taking down these labels, this-that, but the task of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to ensure these markings, and the task is to prevent the preventive and rather rigorous punishments, the removal of such marks. So let's do this part with these two measures, because, in particular, let's not let the tourist competitors do this situation for us that Croatia is under mines, that it is under mines and in the Croatian Adriatic area, that they are using it against Croatian tourism for their needs. For this reason, let's regulate these two most important situations so that at least we can prevent this part from being secured, and certainly strengthen the dynamics of demining. And now that we're talking about that provision of Article 72a. which is really quite inaccurately made, it's legally difficult to implement, let's fix it, because we have, there can be two legal situations where unexploded means of killing or mine explosives will be found. The first situation means before issuing a certificate that a particular area is demining, and this is also a legal and certainly easier situation because we can make sure that no one gets killed, that this unexploded mine or murderous means will mean that in time they will be found and that both the company and the individual who is that there were no supervisors, or that there was no such expert who did not find the job properly done, we found unexploded means of killing or mine explosives. And there is now also a legal situation in terms of punishing both companies and individuals as pyrotechnicians or responsible persons simpler and let's make it clear that there can then be a range of dissuasion of his powers means to carry out these jobs, let's say from one to three months. But the second legal situation is when a supervisor, or an expert, predicts and after issuing certificates that the area is demining, then comes a more difficult legal situation and certainly, because, as we will find out, unfortunately in most cases, someone is going to get hurt. Someone will then get hurt and it is a difficult legal situation and therefore in such a legal situation we need to go with more rigorous measures and this deprivement of powers and license companies and individuals for up to a year, we can even go on a longer period. But once again, it is entering this legal trap, the ministry says it will take away its powers. If the inspector finds out, that is where the concept of administrative and inspection supervision is mixed. But at the end of that, it is not said according to the Constitution that the principle of double-stage must be guaranteed. If you want the ministry's solution here to be finally, that's where you should put it. So the solution of the ministry referred to in paragraph 1 is final and only an administrative dispute can be initiated against it. But it is certainly in such situations that criminal charges are being filed and filed. So these are the situations where we really need to further work everything out so that we don't happen that way. Watch out for this diction if you have, say, paragraph 1 left, it says, if, after the work of the pyrotechnics, you find mine-explosive assets, unexploded... the funds and their parts of the ministry will, by way of a solution, be taken away from it at a time of 30 days to one year, meaning the missing and missing of the two situations which are in practice, means the situation before issuing the certificate and after issuing the certificate, because this may refer to those areas as well as where the demining has not been carried out or is still planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is more important, in the end, is the issue in most of these cases of the state's loss of responsibility, and the company itself, if a person is killed in an area where a certificate of demining has been issued, and we cannot allow these legal situations that these families have no right to have long-term disputes, and what has happened? The state is guilty, i.e. the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the company that did these jobs, so let's make the state pay as such, but is refunded refused by the company that was doing these jobs. So I support this solution for members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia who are as such trained and trained under the armed forces so that they can deal with these demining operations. But we don't understand why strangers are being introduced when we ourselves know what the problem is about the market, that there are pyrotechnics of the unemployed, that there are problems with their salaries, with everything that belongs to them and what the situation was until we all managed to make this current law known to be passed together, there was, remember, there were protests and everything else, but still thanks to President Shakespeare we brought in December 2005. So let's solve these other situations that we need to solve so that we have a law that will be applicable, which will be preventively protected in terms of the possibility of civilian, tourist and where the area is unfortunately under mines, under... By means, but someone took off those markings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And another situation to put in full order. And in the end, we don't understand why I say these strangers introduce themselves. Does that mean, here's the secretary of state that you're going to boost the dynamics? So does that mean, what I could accept is that now we're starting from today, let's say we're going to go 100 square miles per year for demining, so we're short of the pyrotechnics to do it, but unfortunately we know that it's really different, that there's some amount of some less than 300 million kuna every year, and we need a little less than 11 billion kunas of money to mean we have money to demining all of this, which means a thousand, 147 kilometers of square and whether we're going to look at it again, so far, it's from '98. until 2006 173 people were killed, 272 were killed, if a period of '93 was taken. It was over 50, 550 people died, and one number was killed in areas where the certificate was issued that the demining was done, unfortunately none in Croatia responded, but many of these were in high places today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88467	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88468	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I agree with my colleague Kovacevic in most of what you said. However, I hope that you agree with me that we will only regulate the legal aspect of the problem of demining through amendments and additions to the law. The problem of demining is the primary financial problem, so my application to all of you colleagues can be within various NGOs, international institutions, we must engage our diplomatic bodies, etc., why not try to fight the Council of Europe to declare next year an international mine protection year and to use that year to just try to animate the international community that Croatia still has a thousand and 100km of untapped areas, try clearly through the activities of these organisations, including humanitarian organisations, to try to clearly raise as much money as possible for this job to be done as quickly as possible. The story and legislation can do very little, primarily... that it's a financial problem and let's make sure we all do it together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88469	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88470	Your Honor, Mr. President, I agree with this. My colleague was just talking about two aspects, I was talking about a legal aspect in terms of protection against suffering in those areas where demining as such has not been made yet and where it was made, but unfortunately it wasn't done in a way that, so the rest are some... And I've been telling this part in terms of and financial terms how much money it needs, somewhere less than $11 billion, and so we have to fight to secure far greater funds, not that amount of 300 million, because that amount of 300 million, or less than 300 million, means that Croatia will not be mineless for 46 years, or 38 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's make sure this way... A billion a year, and then we can say that it will be demined in 10 years, but unfortunately we're saying that you, me, and a lot of people here for years, but the dynamics is getting worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of being better, it was 30 kilometers square demining in 2005, last year it fell to below 26, and let's say the director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre continues to tell his story. And where does he live?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88471	Second replica, Honored Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88472	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kovacevic, I believe you will agree with me that the criticisms cannot be referred only to the Croatian Mine Action Centre and related to the removal of the board. They've placed tens of thousands, unfortunately thousands of these records have disappeared. The situation may be that tonight someone took off the board, about teams that take off plates better not to talk, or there is no word for these actions, and in this someone went to buy snails and unfortunately went to God for it. That's, I'm saying the problem is in the minds of those who take those plates off. These panels are set and should be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88473	To regain consciousness, they're thieves. Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88474	Well, he's right, President Shakespeare. I spoke from two points of view. I was speaking from the point of view to strengthen the criminal and rigorous penalties for removing those markings. Another situation, the Croatian Mine Action Centre is the one that acts under the authority of the state and ensures that these markings are placed so that people do not get hurt, and therefore he cannot run away from responsibility, each time they say that we have set up, but someone has taken off. So did you check? Did you do anything? So we have two, we go through criminal sanctions, rigorously to remove such markings as a preventive measure and commit the Croatian Mine Action Centre, because it is the state that fits if a man enters an area that is mine-suspecting. Let's not play country when we like it, and when we don't like it, then, listen, it's not possible. It's possible, but we need to build a system that works.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88475	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88476	Here, I reported that you would also symbolically support the idea of which my colleague Doric spoke there. The idea that demining Croatia is not a normative problem is a mass psychological, financial and international diplomatic problem. I think that Croatia should of these folkal, easy to music, easy to approach the problem of Croatian mining when various annual actions are organised, including the President of the Parliament, some years me and different athletes, which leaves a false impression in the public that it is an almost fun job, to approach it in the way it has approached the construction of highways. It means that of these many apocalyptic projections also spoken of by counterpart Pero Kovacevic, that Croatia will be demined at 20, 30, don't give God 50 years, to decide that the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union is the day when Croatia will be mineless. In this area, we do not have a more serious cost-benefit analysis of how profitable even purely economically observed demining is. I personally think that it is worth it and it is good that this issue of Croatian minima is being discussed in this High House ahead of a big debate on perhaps the best so far-prepared materials that have come into our hands, these are materials about the state of the natural environment and the environment in Croatia. That element of demining is an essential element. Even the elements that were critical and from the point of view of some kind of supervisory role of stripping boards are often very tangible, rational reasons. It's not about any kleptomaniacs or thieves who assume our esteemed president and leader Vladimir Seks, it's about a man renting an apartment and having mines written behind his house. And that's where the fat German comes in and says, "What is this?" Mines, even the Germans understand. And that's why that man takes it off at night. Therefore, I think that supervisory powers should and labelling should be excluded from the Mine Action Centre and it should become the obligation of a serious minister to the resolution ministry. I have, in fact, analysed the physiological development of our ministers, noticed that those who have not gained weight are those who work for 16 hours. So Minister Matulović-Dropulić, Ana Lovrin and others. And those who do a little bit more, they get 10, 15 kilos. Therefore, I do not think that, in this sense, these from the Ministry of Science and Education and some other ministers should, of course, be getting fat. Therefore, I agree with my colleague Doric and I take the obligation on behalf of the Croatian delegation to the Council of Europe to take some concrete action with my colleague Doric to sensitise the European public that Croatia is a country where the war has not stopped. The fact that 170 people died, that 270 people were injured, that I got a call this morning from a pyrotechnician working in a minefield, and he's thinking about whether his wife could get in one of the banks in the Varazdin County area a job because he can't dream and sleep for days, means we need to approach it more seriously. And finally something about strangers. I would be most fortunate to demining Croatia from Serbs and Montenegrins. It means they put it there. Especially in these days when practically people who defended and freed Croatia were treated as war criminals by The Hague prosecutor's office, The Hague tribunal. And our model prime minister treats it quite conveniently. He says it's just the opinion of the prosecution, but the circumstance is and the fact is that the people who have personified the Croatian state today are potential and possibly convicted war criminals, and the people who have sown over Croatia mines, today are our strategic partners with whom, and thank God, we normally do business, but I think there's something to be done in this area. And finally, as far as we're concerned, I'm going to propose and I'm going to be glad to go through one demining course and I'd like to join in the action to create a symbolic team of people in this Croatian House who would symbolically at their own risk, with a previous education at least symbolically demining let's say one square meter, instead of answering those phones and it turns out to be a fun job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88477	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88478	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! The Law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining brings new improvements and harmonisations to ensure that the safety of citizens and the responsibility of pyrotechnicians, pyrotechnic supervisors and all those involved in the surveillance, recording, restriction of mine-free space is certainly greater and that the work of humanitarian demining that is still ahead of us in the coming years is better done. It is certain that this law and its amendments and additions and articles that speak about what needs to be done to facilitate and speed up the process of humanitarian demining, so it says, that the geodetic measurement now falls on the burden of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, that this is no longer the obligation of legal persons or craftsmen who have received the demining job. I would also like to point out in this debate that it is also defined that in these demining operations and in the case of inspection control, the pyrotechnic supervisor, the pyrotechnic overseer, the head of the workshop, the pyrotechnician and the assistant employee are doing jobs contrary to this law, that, according to the Ministry of Interior, they will be deprived of power for a certain period of time, regardless of the conduct of the infringement procedure that counterpart Kovacevic was talking about. Therefore, regardless of the follow-up to the procedure, this sanction provided for in Article 72a will certainly point them to 30 days i.e. from one month to six months will be without the ability to do business and go and education in order to acquire additional knowledge that they have not used or neglected in their performance. In fact, these legal changes will certainly contribute to the fact that five times the same area or the same area will not be demined or supervised, which was certainly in the previous years of the procedure, and I think the right to say that the Belarusian gunpowder is five times demining, and the mine-explosive assets and unexploded explosives are back in place. And I think that responsibility must really be maximum of all participants. In my debate, too, I would like to highlight what is not said and my colleague Letica began to mention that it would be best for Montenegrins and Serbs to demine. In previous discussions, I have said something about this, but this legal article 72 also provides fines for those who possess and dispose of data on the pollution of an area or building... and refuse to give them to the body referred to in Article 6 of this Act, they will be sanctioned and punished by fines ranging from 2 to 10 thousand kuna for that same offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think it's regulated legally and this area is speaking. And also when it comes to markings that restrict the space identified as polluted mines, it is said that these persons will also be who will be stripping or destroying the demarcation of the area or the building or unauthorized entrance to a marked minefield or mine suspected areas will also be sanctioned by such offences and the criminal penalties defined in this law. I think that the very education prescribed through this law clearly states that the Ministry of Interior as well as the Ministry of Defence at the Police Academy will conduct examinations for supervisors, overseers, operatives and employees who perform demining and, on the basis of such checks and tests, will give them the cards they will have to carry on the ground during demining, so as to identify that there would be no work force that is not educated and which is not professionally trained for these tasks but must be proof of carrying a certificate of demining training. In this law, amendments and additions are deleted by a provision entitled to the prioritization of the institutions and children of the deadly pyrotechnicians, which has actually been adopted by the Constitutional Court by such a provision. But the Constitutional Court, I will say and repeat, even though I have said several times, has not deleted such a provision for those prescribed by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, in which part of the most relations to Partisan fighters and fighters of World War II. That provision was not taken into account, but it is likely that someone will press charges against such a provision, and it will also be removed from the law as it is for this population. We see that these legal provisions really want to improve the work of pyrotechnicians, companies, etc. and that the decree which she has spoken has been deleted, which now remains that only for the offences prosecuted under official duty may be an obstacle to the further work of certain companies, individuals and those who are trained professionally. For those works that are easier in nature, there would be no difficulty in further their work. The law also provides that authorised legal persons and craftsmen who do not comply with their business within the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article shall suspend the authorisation to carry out humanitarian demining operations and I think that this is perfectly fine, that the legal provisions must be consistent with everything. In addition, a provision has been deleted which must specify exactly the means to be used in demining. And I would therefore like to say in the package that all that has been passed on to these legal provisions is only a positive intention in order to make as high as possible and as safe as possible these responsible jobs for which they really must be responsible and trained and trained and that this job that is very important for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia will be done as soon as possible. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88479	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88480	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I agree with this piece on the responsibility Mr Djakic spoke of. He also brought up that gunpowder case where five times the certificate was issued that it was demining, and it was eventually found not to be. Probably Mr. Djakic and I don't know, but I suppose the secretary of state might know. How many persons in Croatia for such or similar situations when the certificate was issued and after that the person suffered or demining was not carried out properly or had to be re-produced? How appropriate the person in Croatia has so far been, how many criminal proceedings have been initiated, because that would be also interesting to hear. Because each of us knows some cases of that nature. Since '95. There were such cases that people were even suffering further. And today, unfortunately, that's what's happening. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88481	At 10.41, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88482	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The humanitarian demining law entered into force on 5 January 2006. It has identified certain problems of a practical nature that need to be removed. It is deleted from the provision that authorised legal persons and craftsmen may carry out search and demining operations only with the capacity declared in the tender documentation and those methods of work and equipment established in the certified SOP, since the method of introducing any additional capacity will be prescribed for each project in the documentation, for public competition. It was added to the provision that workers in humanitarian demining operations are obliged to have a humanitarian demining card with them. That it is prescribed when the Ministry of the Interior will withdraw the card. Further to this proposal, the Law allows the Ministry of Defence’s pyrotechnicists to carry out humanitarian demining operations in the Republic of Croatia after the end of the military service. The problem of education of persons qualified to carry out demining operations under foreign regulations is also addressed. Furthermore, it proposes to mitigate the conditions for granting powers to the head of the workshop, the pyrotechnics and the assistant employee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on humanitarian demining in such a way that only criminal offences prosecuted under official duty are obstacles to the granting of powers. It is also proposed to amend the existing legal provision which prescribes that the prohibition measure is carried out on the activities can be imposed independently of the time period during which the infringement has been repeated. In a way that the same shall be limited to a one-year period and the fine shall also be prescribed. This Regulation shall enter The education and training of persons for the conduct of humanitarian demining operations shall be carried out by the Ministry or the Police Academy i.e. educational and training programme for the sea... Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After completion of education and training, the expert exam shall be passed before the examination committee appointed by the Minister of the Interior. The examination committee for conducting an expert examination of persons performing demining military facilities shall appoint a joint interior minister and defence minister. After having passed the expert examination, the opinion of the expert examination shall be issued. Leave after education and taking exams is required to be approached by pyrotechnicians who do not carry out demining operations for an uninterrupted duration of two years. Article 33 increased the security measure by additional staff training. This law lays down measures to prevent demining on one of these plots between 3 and 5 times, and there have been plenty of such examples in Vukovar. If this law had been amended earlier for the money spent on demining I think we could say good-bye to mines soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88483	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88484	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I will certainly support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining and since I come from an area which is still largely covered by mines and various explosive means I am obliged to show a special interest in faster demining than in my municipalities and the Vukovar-Srijem County. The colleagues spoke of a part of the problem related to humanitarian demining. First of all, for the part relating to particles which have been examined several times by mine-explosive means without having been recorded at the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The amendments to the law and this problem is being resolved and the Croatian Mine Action Centre will be obliged to draw all areas that are demined by competition and I hope that no more such problems will be. We also have a part of the agricultural area that was demined by farmers themselves. This is a particular problem that I would like to point out and ask the Ministry of the Interior at this time, especially the Croatian Mine Action Centre, to solve this problem by re-explosive technical reconnaissance and finding that there is really no longer any danger of mine-explosive resources on these agricultural areas. I'm saying this because a good part of these agricultural areas is still listed as a mine suspected area and the moss is a state-owned land which makes it difficult for local self-government units to have a land-owned programme. Simply these particles have been working for 5, 6 or 10 years, and if a longer period of time is already being processed logically, it would be good to draw and delete one of these surfaces from mine suspected surfaces. In this part, I appeal to the best possible cooperation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre with units of regional or regional self-government and with units of local self-government. Each county that is one of these 12 has its infrastructure and persons in charge of monitoring and implementing the demining of mine-explosive areas but also very necessary good coordination with local self-government units, that cities and municipalities in these counties simply avoid each, every possible dispute over the space that colleagues previously said was already demining, so a competition for the same area is reopened and one and the same area is once again demining. That shouldn't happen in the future in any way. And with such cooperation, which is possible to practice, we will also solve the problem of whole surfaces. For example, if we have a surface area of 15,000 hectares, then we have to solve all these 15 acres and not solve 13 and a half hectares, then 1 and a half hectares remains an unsolved area, and then we don't know what we're going to do and how we're going to do with that area. So I suggest that, in any case, in future times, they are seen when it comes to agricultural areas and certain areas. The problem of the forest area is certainly special and certainly it will take a long time to solve every square metre of mine suspected space in the area and the Vukovar-Srijem County and the municipality of Germans from which I come. Here we certainly support and introduce this provision because we simply all need to know who these people are who are coming to demining into our space. Often, companies that are either from Dalmatia or from the western part of Croatia get demining jobs in the eastern part of Croatia. It's just that overnight you can see that some people have come, they're walking around in the atmosphere, and you don't know who they belong to or what they're doing. And that is why if they have a registered card with them that will indicate that they demining a certain space certainly the citizens, especially local authorities, will be far better acquainted with the area where demining is being done. I also advocate that we try and, in the future, all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, as well as all public figures who can encourage the general public to provide the necessary resources to speed up the demining process. The demining process also depends on the recovery of the economy in particular in the eastern part of Croatia. Depending on further investment in capital infrastructure, it depends on the protection of an environment that is not negligible, because if you have thousands of hectares of space not examined by mine-explosive means, it is certain that environmental protection or that the whole environment is in some way damaged because it simply cannot be entered into. It is certainly necessary to sensitize Croatia as well as the international public and certainly that there is a problem of space which is mine-explosively suspicious to speak in the Croatian Parliament, but also at all other levels. And finally I support these amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining and I certainly appeal to all those responsible to speed up demining processes as quickly as possible because this will certainly mean a faster recovery of the economy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88485	Thank you. Replica. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah! I apologize for my esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88486	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, I really believe in your interest in this subject because we come from a space that's a really big problem. Like you and I, I support law changes whenever necessary, even this time. But I'm thinking about it, and I believe you think so too that changing the law itself won't lead to demining. It takes money to demining. He's got money, but it's a priority issue. So, what the state government assesses is priority. Mine pollution on one side and the need to use what is under mines only leads to demining. Only demining has consequences for both death and physical damage and serious physical damage, including yours in your county. And if we continue with this dynamic, then we need 46 years to demining. In my county today he's under mines 18 square miles, 18 square miles. Last year, half a mile was demined, and that's what hurts me, because that way with this dynamic, means the next 36 years of fertile agricultural surfaces and forest areas suitable for hunting tourism remain below mines. This stops us in economic development and we from Slavonia can only wish for the faster economic development of Slavonia that is essential. However, one of the main obstacles to this development is this very unsuitable, for us an inadequate mine-cleaning dynamic, and that's what we want to point out. Come on, let's put a priority on this. If we want to develop that region, we put priority on demining.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88487	Thank you. Replician response esteemed representative Ivica Clem
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88488	Of course, I am glad that you also support this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, and my whole debate went exactly that way that we should sensitize the Croatian public, but mostly all of us here in the Croatian Parliament because we decide on the budget and we decide how much funds we will allocate for humanitarian demining in the coming years. Two hundred yards from my house, and I have a child and my neighbors, thank God, is a board “watch the mines. ” Two hundred yards from my house and of course I'm interested in speeding up this demining process as soon as possible. But I am also aware that there are limited and resources available to the Croatian Mine Action Centre which, of course, does not oblige us, which obliges us to be clearer in the coming years when we decide on the means to demining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88489	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with your attitudes and your way of thinking. This law only improves existing legal solutions. But he essentially as well as here almost of all the predecessors said did not solve the essence of things. It does not solve the problem with mine-explosive assets without significantly higher financial resources. It is not realistic to expect that your children and many other children in this environment will live happier, better quality, and especially more prosperous. But we here all the time only appealed, tried to sensitize the public, tried to consent to the government to significantly more funds segregate because the obvious donations of both domestic and io are becoming increasingly lagging behind. We need to turn to ourselves and make it very clear what we really want. Are we going to call what we call our comparative advantages as soon as possible, in addition to this psychological so-called safety dose, or are we simply going to let children who are now born about when they are about the age we are now free of this great problem, mine problems? So it's not just an appeal enough. I also join the appeal, but I expect, as you do, that the Croatian government and any future government will allocate much more funds to solve this big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88491	Replicate response, esteemed representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88492	We don't bring in a state budget here today, and we don't provide funds. Because I'm sure in that part we'd be having a little bit of a different discussion. Here we bring a few amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining. But it is also because of this fact that it is very important to say what the vast majority of MPs here today have said that there is a danger of mine explosive devices in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that there are in certain areas, that there are 12 counties that still have this problem. It is extremely important in the Croatian Parliament to talk about this problem and it is extremely important to sensitize the public and appeal to the responsible. I consider that to be our obligation to represent us. And I am particularly pleased to thank you, and here I thank you for your support to speed up the demining process and for having Croatia without mines as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88493	Five-minute debate, distinguished representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88494	Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So this law says that, above all, these anti-explosive security officers can enter a mine suspected area to perform emergency interventions. Furthermore, this bill allows the defence ministry’s pyrotechnics to carry out humanitarian demining activities after the service has stopped. We all agree that this demining should go as quickly as possible that as many people as possible should be hired. And we certainly need to admit to these people that they are doing or doing one of the most ungrateful jobs that can even be imagined. And that's why state-owned companies who hire these people have to hold them like a little bit of water in their palms. There must be no question of pay or beneficent internship or disability. Unfortunately for these people, someone has to take care of their families. There must not be a questionable pension. Because de facto like someone said those people stay in the war and after the war. So that's right, these people are at war today. If it hadn't been for the war, it would have been understandable that there wouldn't have been a mine. So today's consequences of wounding, mine deaths should be treated in some way as the consequences of war, and so many of these people who are unhappy should be equalized with the victims of the Homeland War. Why? so that when these people go to this more ungrateful job, they can feel certain that if they get hurt, they at least leave a cared family behind. In Croatia, we all know for years they will be killed by leftover mines. The people who live alongside these mined areas are aware, far more aware than we are of this House. Croatia will have to be demined for decades. Well, whether it's about this dynamic, 25 to 30 kilometers now, which would take us another 40 or 50 years. And, because if that doesn't happen, if those spaces don't demine, there simply isn't, under quotes, "life." And let the foreigners come. Let the foreigners participate in all this. Clearly, under the same conditions, domestic citizens or domestic natural or legal persons must take precedence. We can't go as someone here has suggested asking the Council of Europe or I don't know which European institutions, America, etc. certain means of demining and then saying that the parties will not take part in this business. That's how gentlemen just don't work. The question of when will we get the strength to say that these areas are safe, how many years will it be? We agree that these deminings go too slowly. More resources in the budget need to be provided, more people to be hired. And to do that, we need good laws. Mr. Kovacevic said that this law lacks some prejudice, subjects, well, let's make it right. Mr. Doric says the money's missing. But there's also a lack of will, maybe a wish, maybe more concern for the victims. Any progress in this area should be welcomed. And these changes are kind of a small step in that direction and that's why the law is acceptable. Croatia, everyone mentioned it, still has a thousand 149 square kilometres of mines polluted. It's about the size of 1/3 of Istria, and it's about the problem. So far we have 272 victims, 171 dead, and unfortunately there will be more victims, and therefore this demining should be one of the national priorities. I reported among other things that he would simply criticise the Croatian Mine Action Centre for unnecessary actions he sometimes carries out. For example. when we were glued all over Istria a year or two ago, "Be careful mines. Let's destroy the mines."I don't know, "let's demining Croatia. Against mines." The way those posters used to say it. And it's one of the anti-reclaves of not only Croatian tourism, it's the worst that appears in the 6th, 7th, 8th month. But that's one of the anticlaves I'd say to reason itself. Instead of spending money on such actions, which I think is absolutely unnecessary, it would be far better to allocate those funds to demining Ms. Lalic's county not only half a hectare that year, but to demining a hectare, two or three funds, a hectare or two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88495	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary of the Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88496	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank everyone who participates in the debate because it is really visible that this issue demining mine suspected and polluted areas of the Republic of Croatia is indeed the interest of all parties, all representatives and all of Croatia. What Mr. Gavran may have said may be the point of all this, I would just say that Croatia in the Homeland War has been created at great, huge solidarity where parts of Croatia who have not suffered direct war destruction have shown enormous solidarity with parts of Croatia that have been at war, which have suffered great damage, an exodus of the population, and I think it is also very important here to show such great solidarity to these areas which have a problem with mine-pollution areas because this minima is holding back many segments of life, starting with the safety of people, residents, primarily children, starting from blocked capacities in the economy from agricultural land, from certain facilities, starting from the interest of investors to invest in those areas that they will certainly not be until the end of demining and I expect that Croatia will again show that the great solidarity without which these problems will not be resolved within the time limits that we all of understanding and in which we all of people are expected to be in these areas. This law is clear and you have all realized it together, is just one small step further in increasing the efficiency of doing this job which primarily intervenes in those organisational affairs that intervenes towards the pyrotechnicians and the Croatian Mine Action Centre that in these existing conditions and circumstances however makes this demining work more effective and speeds up a little bit, to simplify but not at the expense of the security of doing business because there was certainly a failure in doing these jobs by those who did it. I have no record of what Mr Kovacevic asked how many participants were in demining sanctioned because of the failure to do the job, but I can check it out for you and deliver that information. There are certain problems in this extremely sensitive and delicate demining business and in the case of the most direct participants, i.e. pyrotechnicians. There is less and less interest in doing these jobs, and although the MUP has passed a rule on their training, there is no longer an interest in doing this job because we all understand it, because it is an extremely dangerous, responsible, demanding job and people after a few years simply wear out and they can no longer do any other work. We now see this and the results that we have a large number of now hired pyrotechnics on sick leave and will simply be very soon I am afraid, come to the question whether Croatia with these capacities can continue to carry out demining operations even in case they are provided and significantly higher funds. For this reason, we have predicted this possibility that these demining operations can also be performed by foreigners whose knowledge and education is confirmed through verifications by the MUP, or other competent authorities because the prices of these services offered by foreign companies or foreign pyrotechnicians are lower than ours, and I also agree with those representatives who have said some demining foreigners, let them do this job at lower prices because it would not be good for Croatian citizens to suffer further in doing this job which is extremely complex and which is extremely responsible. I hope that already this year the Croatian government will provide, there are indications, additional means to carry out this demining business. I will not bid on the amounts, but as a member of the Council of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, I really expect that additional funds will be provided and current capacities will be able to spend those funds if they are provided. However, we should also prepare ourselves for the situation, I hope that we will warmly welcome it, ensure that more resources are provided and that we have the capacities that these funds will be able to use to demine Croatia within those deadlines that are truly reasonable and that those people who live with mines and deserve it. Thank you once again for understanding this law because it is obvious that you have all recognised that the intention of this law is to take a small further step towards improving this system, and the whole demining process will be possible only if there is a much higher financial means to be provided, and I am sure that this change of law will also ensure that these funds can be used in a well-efficient way, that this demining process goes at a much faster pace, that it takes place in quality and that, at the end of one reasonable time, we all welcome Croatia demined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88497	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the next bill. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88499	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88500	Amendment 1 to Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88501	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88502	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88503	Article 13 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88504	It's a piece of work. 3rd Amendment to Article 16
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88505	Article 16 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88506	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. And what is the law? The result? With 98 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we now have two points. One is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is in the first reading, and the second is the Environment Report for the period 1997 to 2005. It's kind of natural for it to be together, and it's natural for you to agree that it's a common discussion, with that and... There's no other way, except the Arms Act, for instance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it'll be together, but with the proposer taking the lead first to start with the report. Is the honourable MPs and MPs in agreement? They agree. Are we okay with that? Is there any objection to this proposal? Okay. Let's go then, no complaints, then let's go to work. - Proposal for a law on environmental protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 680 - A report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 1997 to 2005 The State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Nikola Ružinski will further explain the report and the bill proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88508	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. So the report first?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88509	Well, yeah, it makes sense somehow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88510	These two points are really connected, they talk about the same things in different ways and one thing supports the other. So I'll say a few words, introductory words about the environmental report. First, I would like to say that this is a report on the state of the environment for the period from 1997 to final of 31.12.2005. As some data can be found in the report, which is already clear today that they have changed, however according to statistical data, according to the production methodology used in this report, so according to the collection of data by different institutions, the situation has to end in the year for which there are, for the full year for which there are reports. So this report gathers data from 6 ministries, a number of state institutions, 18 institutions, colleges, scientific institutes, professional institutions, specialized companies and others. The draft of this report went through quite a wide range of consultations and, in the end, it was also the Alliance for the Protection of the Environment which gave its opinion because after that, this report was made. The report contains except for the introduction, contains one expanded summary and 5 wholes. These are sectoral approaches, environmental components, general environmental issues, conclusions and annexes with 22 chapters, i.e. 198 different indicators. In the sectoral section, an assessment and burden on the environment is given as cards of pressure from individual sectors. Nine sectors have been processed. These are space and population, energy, industry, agriculture, forestry, fishing and aqua culture, transport, tourism and chemicals. The second part deals with conditions, burdens and trends for individual components such as air, water, sea, soil, biodiversity,... and topics related to the environment and health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The general environmental protection issues include, in addition to the general and institutional framework for the implementation of the environmental policy, the international obligations of legislative and institutional strengthening, education and public interest. The final part of the report shows key characteristics of the situation by sectors and environmental components and warns about certain problems. The following points may be singled out on the conclusions. In legislation and institutional strengthening, significant progress has been made in the reporting period, so since '98, '97. To this day. The latest change in the general social climate has been observed and what has been recognised to exist in environmental protection and business opportunities, an increase in the number of environmental institutions. With the efficiency of the functioning of the system, it can be said that there is still a certain non-transparentity of certain obligations and responsibilities, as well as a certain fragmentation in jurisdiction and lack of finance, which is extremely important. When we look at the state of individual components, we can see from this report that significant progress has been made in relation to the previous reporting period, therefore only an example of the air has been observed a significant reduction in SO2 and lead emissions, which is also related to changes in fuel, transport and energy. In some areas such as waste management, which is extremely critical in the field of environmental protection, a number of activities that have already been discussed here have been initiated, so disposal recovery has begun, new waste management plans have started to apply. In some areas such as soil activities have just begun. The specific table shows state of the sector and its constituents. As a prerequisite for improving the environmental situation, the report makes certain recommendations, proposals, among them one of the basic introductions and national standards in line with EU standards, a more efficient organised system in the country, especially at local level, and including the objectives of the environmental needs requirements in the planning and development documents. And in the end maybe a few words about the importance of the report. It is, for several reasons, an important contribution to the monitoring and efficiency of environmental protection. It is the first complete document that in one place gives an assessment of the situation, as well as trends in environmental protection. It represents a fundamental and effective tool for monitoring the situation in the environment and it is important that the evaluations of the situation are based on the so-called. Indicators thus allowing systematic and traceability in monitoring the situation at national and international level to ensure the comparability of our data with the data of the European Community countries. And in conclusion, I would say that, for the first time, the evaluations presented in the report directly relate to the objectives defined by the national environmental protection strategy and the measures set out for individual sectors in the national environmental protection plan representing the two key documents adopted by this Assembly. Mr. President, that's a few words of introduction regarding the environmental report. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about the law. Here is the proposal for a Environmental Protection Act today. It is about roof law, the first roof law, which, as environmental protection, includes air, water, soil, nature protection, chemical, noise, waste management, water management, monitoring, environmental reporting, sustainable development, climate protection, etc. This is the Law from which all other sectoral laws come out and therefore laws on the protection of nature, water, waste law, air protection, etc. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is, regardless of what is really a European law, so the law that we must comply with the directives we have decided to go, the Government has decided that the law goes into two readings. The draft Law of this is on the Ministry's website so that, apart from the parliamentary representatives and all the interested public of the professional association, NGOs, all of them can make their comments and suggestions that we will consider because we really want this Law to be a real roof environmental law. Croatia, however, is already in its '94 law. In the last 10 years, however, great things have been happening in the world environment protection system, a number of directives and regulations have been adopted in Europe. We in the field of screening, during screening in the process of approaching the European Union, have had to process and the system of European law includes environmental protection, Aquis covers over 200 directives and regulations, so one of the extremely extensive areas. Today's policy, the basis of the European Union's policy under the chairmanship of Germany, is energy and the environment, climate protection, everything is focused not only on European but also on world systems. In Croatia, in the last two years, a strong step in concrete environmental protection projects, especially after the establishment of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, has been made extremely much. Laws on air protection and waste laws have been passed. A series of regulations have been adopted, which allow for improvement of environmental relations. You all know the most famous rulebook, it's the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste, where we have really made one step, introduced a specific model based on some European country models but which, as a specific model, has made an extremely great success in us, or the effect of this rule has been shown on several occasions and we have talked a lot about it. In addition, Croatia has today as a candidate for membership in the European Union, has an obligation to comply with laws and, in all our dialogues, the European Commission has several times demonstrated the need for stronger coordination of all environmental components, so water, air, waste, nature, chemicals that are in the jurisdiction of special ministries today, and that is one of the reasons why we are passing this roof law that gives an upgrade and harmonisation of the Environmental Protection Act in full and creates a common basis for environmental constituents regardless of where the ministry is their jurisdiction. And a few words about what's important in this law, important new. Therefore, this law lays the groundwork for the transposition of more European Union documents and one of the, what I would like to highlight first is the system of environmental impact assessment. This law introduces a strategic environmental impact assessment instrument for all plans and programmes including plans and programmes, spatial plans up to the level of the county. It is also introduced, the directive on integrated prevention and control of pollution is transposed, so-called ‘integrated prevention and control’. The IPPS Directive introduces uniform conditions for environmental protection. This means that special responsibility will be introduced for large production and energy systems that will receive these combined environmental protection conditions in the process of obtaining a useful authorisation. And if they do not comply with the conditions laid down in these uniform environmental conditions, it may happen that after five years of work, they will not be allowed to work further, in which way we will actually enable stronger control and greater responsibility for certain large production and energy systems. The specific part of this law is dedicated to public access to information on the environment and public participation in the development of specific plans and programmes. So, the principle of public participation, the Arch of the Convention that this Assembly ratified several months ago here, this law leads to one significant improvement or definition of public relations and public rights relations for participation in the process of adoption of plans and programmes. This law and the question of polluter liability for damage is introduced, which is also a new segment. And what may be important and what is related to this previous report. This new Environmental Protection Act introduces a system of modernisation, provides for a system for modernisation of environmental monitoring and the information system for environmental protection is of exceptional importance. This law lays down that all the information necessary, which is bonds, participants and components and through certain pressures, that all must report in a particular form to the Environment Protection Agency which has also produced this environmental status report. And a report on the state of the environment that we can expect in 2010 will be done in a more recent way with probably even more data than we have today. And as finally I would like to point out that this law gives special responsibility to professionals who are authorised in environmental protection matters where their responsibilities are assumed. It's also connected to the Law of Spatial Planning and Construction that you'll probably have tomorrow at the hearing, there you'll hear the link of these two laws. So it is the responsibility of these professionals but it is also their responsibility is particularly highlighted in this law. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I've finished this by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88511	Thank you very much. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? The Honorable Vice President? Who's going?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88512	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Environment Report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 1997 to 2005 as the home working body. In the Committee's discussion, it was pointed out that this report represents a quality picture of the assessment of the situation and trends for different areas of the environment. The positive assessment of the use of the experiences and methodologies of the European Union is primarily indicative. It was indicated that the latest official Environmental Report was submitted in 1998 and this report was to be preceded by a report for a four-year period. In this context, it is noted that it is necessary to respect the legal time limit for the submission of the environmental status report in the next period. It is proposed to implement a draft of the text in the section in which the agricultural sector is processed before the report is published in the "National Journals". in Chapter 4.2, the achievement of the objectives of the environmental protection strategy and of the National Environment Action Plan, which, as a document implementing the agricultural policy, is listed in the 2003 National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Areas, which has not been adopted. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion. A report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted for the period 1997 to 2005. Mr. President, if you'll allow me, I'll be right with the law? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament also discussed the proposal for a law on environmental protection as a parent working body. In the discussion on the Committee, it was pointed out that it was a quality proposal for a law that adopted a number of newspapers and the following comments, proposals and opinions were made. In Article 31(1), it should be recast in accordance with the competences of the Croatian Parliament as the holder of the legislative authority, to review Article 5 of Article 44, which defines that the Croatian Parliament accepts a report on the state of the environment relating to the implementation of the sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the environmental plan of the Republic of Croatia. That formulation prejudges the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and would make it more acceptable to define in that sense that this report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. With regard to Article 42, consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing predominant causality by transferring the burden of proof to the operator. The operator carrying out an activity considered hazardous to the environment should thus prove that the damage suffered does not result from its activity in the same way as the Law on Mandatory Relations in Article 1063 regulates the damage to dangerous activity. As regards Article 147(4), which defines that the claim for compensation to the environment cannot relate to the damage caused on private property, it is pointed out that that article should be completed by reference to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. It should also be pointed out that in matters of damages to natural persons, the Environmental Protection Act is not "lex specialis" in relation to the Law on Mandatory Relations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Those comments are addressed to the applicant. The individual debate requested an explanation to which the measure of this Environmental Protection Act as a roof law would affect the laws already adopted in certain segments of environmental protection, as well as the clarification of the provisions of Articles 36, 127 and 136. Representatives of the Green Action in the Committee's debate tabled proposals to extend the deadline for comments, proposals and opinions on the proposed environmental protection law published on its website on 19 April 2007. They also pointed out the proposal to include a representative of those associations in the field of environmental protection in the Union for Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: A proposal on environmental protection is being adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88513	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88514	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, we have a report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 97/2005. and the proposal for a law on the protection of the environment of the brother's brother, these two materials have almost one kilo. However, it is good that they have appeared in such a form. First, I'm going to say a few words about this state of the environment. In some ways, I would dare say the current moment in both social and economic and social terms, as well as in this country's development. No country, I think we have to agree with that, can live under a glass bell. Unfortunately, we live under the greenhouse effect but for development and then it means for prosperity, for survival, for jobs, for progress, for better life needs clearly every country and industry, and trade, and agriculture, and not only ecological and tourism, and sources of energy, and roads, and construction and all of this necessarily changes the space that we are talking about here today and all of this affects the state of space. What is important in this environmental report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 97 to 2005 is somewhat expressed on page 55, i.e. pages 103 to 106 of this almost half a kilo of heavy material. And here, among other things, I literally quote from word to word, that the processing production has not yet reached pre-war production, meaning the one from 1990. That is why Croatia today, and we know that technology has not changed significantly in our cities or that these polluters are not technologically targeted. There are, say, two-thirds less harmful emissions of sulfur dioxide that side 103 speaks of, so from 180 thousand tons a year we came to 60 thousand tons and that's certainly good, but it's not good when we know that 500 thousand jobs are behind this loss as many as Croatia today have fewer than 1990s. I think there are more employees in this country today than 90. Another thing that also says when we talk about that sulfur dioxide is what kind of clears us from VIII. election units and most affected are seen in the fact that this electoral unit is the most affected in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I'm thinking about Rijeka because of her refinery plus the thermal power plant. And only the city of Rijeka, this small narrow pool, in total, contributes to sulfur dioxide in Croatia, participates with 18%. Then Sisak followed by 16.3% and because of Plomin with 7.8% County Istrian. This inevitably requires that the reconstructions of these outdated business entities be carried out whether it is a refinery in Sisak, Rijeka, because we see the number according to these studies in the last few days of cancer patients also saying something. Here I have taken one comment today, can the European Union reduce the number of cancers in Sisak? So among other things, there are tables of cancer patients per 100,000 people, so I'm going to quote them 10 counties that have the most clarity in men. Then in the first place is Varazdinska, then followed by Sisak-Moslavačka pa Primorje-Goranska pa Osijek-Baranjska pa Brodsko-Posaviska pa Splitsko-Dalmatinska pa Virovitičko-Podravska, Zadarska, Međimurska and so on. It is equally necessary to appeal for the "Plominj 1" to stop working and to be redesigned to gas as soon as possible. They are interesting on the other hand, regardless of what seems to be living in the purest space of the globe of earthly and life. So then we see that men in Croatia live on average 72 years, women 79 years old. But that's less 6 years for men than in Italy, and 5 years for women less in Croatia than in Italy. For 5 years, men have lived in Croatia less than in Spain, France. Women also 5 years less in Croatia than in Spain and France. In Montenegro, they live less than in Croatia and both. In Bosnia, too. In Serbia, too, it seems that we who feed on cheese and cream live shorter than those on GMOs. All right, let's let go of that cynicism. But we're going the same way. That's one comment from the bench I was told yesterday, so, this morning, I said I'd use it. We also see on this side 103, 104 that the emissions of nitrogen oxides are 20% lower. The biggest contaminant on that basis is unfortunately the Flomin according to these tables. It's smaller, it's less ammonia in the air than the '90s. Heavy metals fell 90% and so on. Now how to coordinate development, but clearly get back, but let's get some of those 500 thousand lost jobs back. Because we don't have a million and 500 thousand jobs today, but on the other hand, we have 1 million and 80 thousand pensioners. And it kind of becomes a question of survival. I just want to point out, there's no need to be afraid of industry. We should also be clearly encouraged if the relevant capital bypasses investment in the field or in the field, and praise is worth the effort to save one TLM, Željezara in Sisak, Split and so on. Istria on the other hand, which everyone participates in as an exclusively tourist destination, is either perceived or what did you say? They're percepting. In it tourism is only 3. Perhaps at this point 4 branches behind the industry that participates in the gross product with 34%. Croatia was 30 per cent and slightly 1990s. Today it fell to 20% in industrial production. The store's number two. Construction probably exceeds the revenues of tourism and tourism with 10% which makes seven times the profit of all remaining Croatian tourism together is only in 3rd or 4th place. But that's why I said there are more jobs in Istria in 2007 than there were in the 1990s. And it's less unemployment in 2007 than in the '90s. Exports of one 3.4 times the 1990s and there are days of construction or three biggest Croatian investments were built either if it were tourism means "Campinski" in TDR canary, which is what President Mesic would say not in Zadar, if I am not mistaken: "Smoking Croatia, Croatia, Croatia" pardon. Since the state has already allowed them to have a monopoly "rock".... Clearly, this does not mean that if someone there has two or three thousand kuna salaries or is unemployed or lives on a pension of 1500 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He lives better than he lives in one Split, Slavonski Brod or Vukovar. Of course I dare say it more often and worse. Another thing that should also be accepted is the fact that between what it points to between the lines and this report, we simply eat the substance. We're selling out. And we're going to come up with that one day we're going to have to say, "Enough." And that's what's gonna happen when the HEP is privatized. Here's what he's talking about, among other things, and this report on, I don't know, about 276 pages. What is certainly needed in this country is one consensus so as to say around the highway if for nothing else and then about the energy producer. We can bid with "Adria Company", with "Rocula", with "LNG terminals", I don't know hydrogas and so on, but can Croatia without an energy producer? Yeah, but then we have to export. But what are we going to export when our deficit is 1:2. 10 billion dollars of exports, 20 billion imports. And then it leads to debt slavery because we already have $37.38 billion in external debt and soon that figure will exceed $40 billion. And I wonder how long we'll be able to serve all that? And that's the question of all the questions. Like equating old and new pensioners. And this will really turn into a first-rate issue because it will depend on it and so let's stop politicizing about every major investment in Croatian, Croatian, Croatian industry. In Croatian tourism, in road construction. I don't know, the batteries and so on. Some NGOs have become a kind of political mechanism. Not to mention how many budgets they are or how many budgets are individual political parties. We're all absolutely for environmental protection. We're all for the highest possible standards of environmental protection. We're all against contaminants, and if they threaten the health of them right now, they need to be shut down, and there can be no compromise, but we also need to understand that clean air just can't live. Also interesting are these observations about tourism. Yes, of course, everything here is not ideal either. In the end... becomes the largest contaminant among other Croatia in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because by 1960 it was built 120 to 150 km of coast, and now it was built 837 km of coast. The question is, will that stop? We know what is being built, and on the other hand in the last 17 years, gentlemen have not built five, six new hotels. Clearly here I don't count on the reconstruction of hotels in Dubrovnik, a Millennium in Opatija, those in Istria, etc. etc. The second, too, why is it 15 minutes already? What's not 20? Here's also a few words about this Environmental Protection Act. I said this law a little while ago looks pretty impressive, too. 175 pages, 234 articles, and what should be hoped to sublime in this matter all that has so far been scattered into 50 laws. What should also be hoped for is that these texts include all international conventions dealing with the environment. What should be hoped that this law will be more permanent than the present one, that it will outlive not only this government but also the future one and the one that will follow and after which it will cease its term in four years. What needs to be hoped for is clear that this law will also introduce far more order into space than it is now. Which is and what this law actually deals with is somehow mentioned in these basic issues at the very beginning with a clear emphasis on environmental protection, in making decisions where the prevention and control of air pollution, soil, water by large industrial plants and the establishment of a united environment in this regard, by monitoring and encouraging the use of new latest technologies, the prevention of major accidents involving etc. etc. What's standing here. I talked a little earlier about how this industrialization in Croatia led to the closure of 500,000 jobs in those 17 years. The war also culminated, transformed and so on, and therefore we can conclude that some harmful parameters are incomparably smaller today than they were 17 years ago because I said Croatia has not yet reached industrial production in the 1990s. So clearly this country needs to be re-industrated once more. For me it is the Environmental Protection Act, for me it is the essence of this law among other things in Article 14 here I will now tell you, Mr. MP, that the public has the right to access information in the environment that is available to public authorities, legal persons, etc. etc. It's absolutely fine. I suggest, however, that the provision be put in place to publish this information in the cost of these public authorities, and I suggest that investors of these larger, more complex facilities also have to publish environmental impact studies. Yes, then Article 39 also documents from state development are etc. Perhaps the state should drop when it is already making new commitments to local self-government and certain resources from its budget for these purposes. Certain 6-month deadlines simply cannot be met because they should be extended. Article 98 speaks of some domino effect. That expression should leave. That reminds me of a game. Article 102 to 107 of the Notice to notify other countries of cross-border influence should also be welcomed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the It's okay, but it needs to be made clear to the public, etc. etc. So, for the end. We need the law. We need this environmental study. We need even more real environmental protection. We also need development in all areas, whether it's industry, agriculture, tourism, I don't know how to build and stuff. The one who builds a hotel, the factory employs a construction company, buys material, buys machines, pays VAT, taxes, we get paid and pensioners and health care normal incomes and NGOs grant and states benefit from that, etc. I said before, I will repeat, I am pleased that at this moment, the three biggest Croatian investments are happening down in Istria, from which the state in the budget of these 500m euros will have 100m euros for its needs and we will clearly protect the space. Let us not politicise, let us not endanger our own development, let us not block investment and preserve space, and clearly contaminants that harm people's health should be shut down at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88515	Get out of jail now! Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go. It's true! Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88516	Thank you very much. In his very inspired talk, however, Honored fellow Cain presented one information that is not correct, so it needs to be corrected. Namely, he said in the life expectancy we live shorter ones who eat cheese and cream than those who eat GMO food, so genetically modified food, which is of course not true. We do not live shorter because our living foods would be broken because our sanitary inspection samples 30,000 foods annually and below 4% are polluted which is absolutely European level. As for the hydraulic epidemics or the epidemics caused by water. They are on average one per year, which is also at European level. The life expectancy, however, fell due to the Homeland War, in which men's life expectancy was expected to decrease by ten years compared to women, and this has nothing to do with the environment, but with Serbian aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88517	Honorable representative Marko Shirac of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88518	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will present the views of the Croatian club, a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, on the State of the Republic of Croatia's environment for the period 1997 to 2005. Although there is a legal obligation to produce a report every 4 years, the coalition government of the Republic of Croatia, chaired by Mr Racan in the period from 2000 to 2003 did not produce the Environmental Protection Report. This report therefore covers the period 1997 to 2005. And given that this Environmental Status Report is based on selected indicators and an appropriate approach, it represents a zero state based on which progress in this area will be monitored and assessed in the next period. The report gives an assessment of the current state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia based on available and estimated data. It describes the state of certain environmental components such as air, water, soil and others, but it also processes sectors that have the most impact on the quality of the environment, such as industry, transport, tourism, agriculture, the population, with the aim of assessing their overall environmental impact. The assessment of the situation is based on selected indicators, allowing monitoring of the effectiveness of certain applied environmental policy measures. At the same time, such a demonstration of the situation allows comparison of individual indicators with their values in other European Union countries. The report shall contain 5 wholes with a total of 22 chapters. For sectors most affecting the environment and environmental components, the assessment of the situation is given by the basis of selected indicators and the final assessment of the objectives set by the Environmental Protection Strategy and the National Environmental Action Plan. In the 4th part of the Report entitled "The conclusion" was given an assessment of the situation in the environment of the Republic of Croatia from which I want to highlight only the most important. First, on legislation and the establishment of institutions in the field of environmental protection. This Report is, of course, based on the Environmental Protection Act, which was adopted in 1994 and, of course, on the sublegal acts adopted in order to implement it. Most of these regulations are already in line with the relevant European Union regulations. In addition, in order to bring Croatia's legislation closer and in line with European Union legislation, it is clear and necessary to amend this legislative regulation by means of implementing and implementing mechanisms. Second, the change in the general social climate towards environmental protection issues. The level of political awareness of the need for more systematic access to environmental issues has changed greatly. NGOs dealing with environmental protection are on the rise. The topic in the field of environmental protection is increasingly addressed in the daily press and other media. The introduction of certain topics from environmental protection into primary and secondary school curricula is on the rise, but is still not represented to the necessary extent in the mandatory education system. The number of institutions, organisations and companies dealing with one of the segments of environmental protection is on the rise. Despite success in certain areas, the Republic of Croatia faces challenges with regard to meeting the objectives set out in the protection of the environment. Obstructions... The implementations are drawn up as follows: lack, non-compliance with sublegal acts, but also insufficiently effective supervision of implementing rules and appropriate sanctions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We still have too few inspectors in this power. There is insufficient cooperation between various inspection bodies. And local and regional self-government units have not yet made a quality move in ensuring human, financial resources for environmental protection jobs. Now he would only briefly present my assessment according to the State Report in certain environmental components. As a whole, it's not bad compared to the last observed period. In some segments, significant progress has been made, for example, in air protection, and there has been a significant reduction in SO2 emissions and systematic monitoring. In waste management, a number of activities have been launched to improve the condition of which results and achievements will only be able to be assessed in the coming time. In some environmental components such as soil activity are only at the beginning and progress or improvement conditions cannot be assessed. Water protection has increased the share of the population involved in public draining. Today, it is 45% but there are a number of wastewater treatment devices missing, especially in the industry. In the protection of the sea the Croatian part of the Adriatic is high quality, but increased transport of dangerous cargo and shipping of ships from foreign ports almost 4 times. In the case of biodiversity, part of endangered species is protected, measures have been taken to protect karst specialities, an increase in the spread of invasive properties has been observed. For certain sectors and areas, I will only make the most significant assessments. In space and population, unfortunately the concentration of the population around urban units continues. In energy, emissions are in the air from stationary sources are a reduction. The growth of domestic gas production and accelerated gasification will affect the reduction of carbon dioxide. The use of energy from renewable sources is only in the beginning. The growth of our industry and the volume of its industrial production is not limited to the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emissions. For agriculture I have already stated that the chemical and physical degradation of land has not been stopped, and... The forest is growing due to cross-border air pollution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Traffic has significantly increased road traffic by 11 times, and the number of vehicles on our traffic has increased almost 40%. In tourism, the special problem is the tourist season when the tourist is very... And that creates additional problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For health and the environment, it can be determined that available data indicate that there is no greater environmental impact on health than specific cases of working environment in the Republic of Croatia. Targeted research is missing in case of specific pollution of the working and living environment. The prerequisite for improving the environmental situation as stated in this report, which we also accept, is to systematically obtain data, create a methodology for collecting and processing data that needs to be brought into line with European norms, better organisation of institutions and include environmental objectives at national level with strategic plans and documents... The sector will ensure long-term protection at national level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to stress that, in addition to the separate part of the report, a review of the priorities of the objectives and measures, the environmental protection strategy and the national environmental action plan, which are a good basis for the comprehensive protection of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, is given. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this report. Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words about the law now. The basis of modern environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia was established by the 1994 Environmental Protection Act, which is... 1999. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of this Act lay down the fundamental principles of environmental protection in which certain European Union directives and provisions laid down in international contracts were used. The implementation of this Act and its implementing rules determines the implementation of the addition of existing, new legal solutions. Given that the Republic of Croatia has the status of a candidate country for EU membership and the obligation to bring its legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, taking into account the fact that new legal instruments have been adopted at European Union level by the Representatives' Club to support the Government's proposal to adopt a new Environmental Protection Act, which will be incorporated in an appropriate manner by the provisions of the 8 Directives of the Council of Europe which regulate environmental protection issues. This new Environmental Protection Act, which is proposed, addresses issues that will ensure full conservation of environmental quality, conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity, rational use of natural goods and energy in the most favourable way for the environment as the basic condition of healthy life and sustainable development. By passing this law, we will achieve the following. In order to shorten this, I can say that one major part of the provisions of this law is the law of the existing law, which is new and consistent with the new solutions that this Law should provide in relation to the provisions which regulate this issue in the European Union and, of course, the Council of the European Union Directives. So I will say just a few words about new institutes that are important for the development and operation of new environmental protection instruments such as environmental quality standards and technical standards for environmental protection related to production and product plants. A strategic assessment of the impact of plans and programmes and an appropriate strategic document on the environment is very important. It is indeed a newspaper that has not been processed in so far's legislation in this way. Assessment of environmental impact, determination... environmental protection conditions for construction facilities and in the work where these conditions will be governed by environmental protection conditions for all environmental components, cross-border impact of planning documents, procedures and installations on the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important to install this provision into our Law, I will only mention a few objects that are planned to be built in neighbouring countries, at least such a debate is being held in professional circles such as the expansion of Krško nuclear power plant to thousands of megawatts, the interventions at the Pakš nuclear power plant in Hungary, the construction of hydrocenters upstream of our border on the Sava, upstream of our border on Mura, the capture of the surface waters of the Neretva basin to the extent that the flow would fall to a minimum in Neretva. So here's one of these, this new solution in the law will certainly give us the opportunity to legally react and seek clarifications and clarifications by our ministry and government and, of course, make it impossible for us to do harm. These new environmental protection instruments identify the frameworks of action and enable the inclusion of essential elements of environmental protection in decision-making, enable the combined prevention and control of air pollution, soil, water by large contaminants, encourages industrial plant owners to use new best technologies and prevent major accidents involving hazardous substances, commits pollutants to ensure the means and compensation of damage done to the environment. In addition, the law will create a legal basis for the inclusion of legal and natural persons in the European Union system for the environmental management of companies, the monitoring of the overall monitoring of environmental conditions with certain obligations for pollutants, the development of a modern information system for the environment will continue, allow the general public to participate in addressing issues and the adoption of plans and programmes in the field of the environment and allow public access to environmental information. The responsibility for the damage and obligation of the operator to remove the threat of environmental damage shall be determined and, if it arises, to repair the damage, i.e. to make up for it. Administrative inspection supervision will be established, and in particular coordinated supervision of facilities for which an obligation to carry out environmental monitoring or obtaining uniform protection conditions in the system of management of administrative authorisation over a facility with dangerous things that may cause major-scale accidents. The implementation of this law does not specifically require the provision of funds, but this law prescribes resources to finance the protection of the environment by which, in addition to state and local self-government units, the use and resources will be used and provided from private sources by a system of concessions of public private partnership from donations, loans and international assistance. As far as the provisions of the law of opinion are concerned, we are aware that certain provisions should be complemented, presented and explicitly arranged: In Article 2(1), the word "healthy" should be added to the word "life". In Article 5, where the terms are explained, we have a lot of objections, at point 15, and at point 14, at point 43, where we believe in point 45 that a new indent should be added: "The forest, which has a significant negative impact on the forest eco system in accordance with specific regulations." Add point 56 to the same article explaining the meaning of the word "domino effect" used in the title of Article 98 of the Law. In Article 34, which has 6 items, they should be counted accordingly. And in paragraph 6, the sentence "National list of indicators referred to in paragraph 1." It shall read as follows: "National list of indicators referred to in point 9 of paragraph 2." etc. We have objections to Article 51, Article 75. In Article 80(2), at the end of the sentence, it is necessary to delete the point and add the words: "In accordance with the relevant regulations relating to environmental constituents." In Article 86, point 2 after the word "emission" should be inserted and the words "and without imposing costs" should be added, and deleted as that provision of point 2 will in practice be almost impossible to implement. In Article 87(1) of the sentence, the words ‘or the inspector responsible for specific regulations for specific environmental components’ should be inserted after the proposal of the environmental inspector’. According to our court, the ministry should initiate the procedure for the termination of the administrative authorisation and on the proposal of an individual inspector responsible for the environmental component. In Article 99(2) beyond the word "external" the words "safe" should be placed in order to clarify the plans. In Chapter 13, post-examination supervision should be added a new article, which reads: "Inspection of the implementation of this law and regulations adopted on the basis of it and certain acts of the conditions and methods of working of supervised legal persons and environmental protection measures, this law shall be carried out by an environmental inspector and other environmental inspectors each in their jurisdiction." Here, I'll be done very soon. In Article 171(1), point (a) is
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88519	Yeah, you'll be done real soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88520	In paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 and to the list of graduate engineers who can be deployed to the workplace of the chief environmental inspector and inspector and supervisor should certainly be classified as a graduate engineer of hydrotechnics, a graduate chemical engineer who finished the Natural History...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88521	And the rest of them apply for a hearing in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88522	All right, Mr. President. Thank you, maybe just one sentence...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88523	Now, don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88524	That the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88525	Okay. Thank you. SDP club respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88526	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The SDP Club welcomes that we have a chance at all to discuss this extremely important law because it took quite a long time for the ministry to develop it and put it in the process. But time wasted doesn't need to be discussed anymore. We will agree that it is now more important to pass a more quality Environmental Protection Act that will contribute to the repair of any good in Croatia today. In order to achieve this, the bill itself needs to be quality. Unfortunately, according to the professions and environmental associations, there is no unambiguous conclusion that this is a good bill and we will all have to work together to come to a second reading which will be a good basis for us to start creating an effective system of environmental protection with the aim of saving the most valuable things Croatia still owns, our natural resources, forests, water, land and thus ensuring quality life for our citizens and the survival and future generations in these areas. Before I say anything about concrete remarks on this bill, I would like to stress that now with climate change which has become unquestionable and affected to a large extent man himself, protecting nature and the environment is becoming one of the key political issues. It is so in the world, so it is in Europe, there is no reason not to be in Croatia. The economic dogma of unlimited growth has proved to be like any dogma inaccurate and pointless. That's why we're in a situation where we're in a position to save what's still being saved, for the survival of civilization itself and man as a species. We Croats as a relatively few people must especially be careful in our relationship with the environment. We therefore believe that environmental protection is a significant political issue that will become even more important over time. As I said at the beginning, the state of environmental protection in Croatia is not good and it is not good since yesterday, so someone would not think it started in 2004 or 2000. The environment protects itself more in words than in action. Large interventions in space are done without objective environmental impact studies and public debates on environmental protection projects. Inadequate treatment of waste and waste water. The sources of funding for nature protection projects are insufficient and the necessary investments in environmental protection projects in industry, energy and municipal networks are better and not talked about because of the large financial amounts we do not have today. There is not even an objective assessment of the state of nature and the environment. And finally the work is the devastation of space in policy and large capital, which has been especially at work lately. From part of the experts we can hear information about the concreteisation of the new 700km coast, meaning what more than all generations of Croats have built on the Adriatic coast so far. And finally, when incidents like those in Karlovac and Sisak happen, it becomes evident that we are not far from the truth when we say that the entire and functional system of environmental protection in Croatia does not exist. And that is why Croatia needs a responsible, modern, proactive European environmental protection policy that will rest on the concept of sustainable development. Many will, of course, say that the concept of sustainable development itself is unsustainable and there are truths in it, but since it is the instrument that is at our disposal today, we must also use it. And just with sustainable development and starting to comment on this law, the proposed environmental law. That this law is written in a bureaucratic way, it seems to me, without the involvement of experts, also shows the article 40 which speaks of a sustainable development strategy which God knows when it will be made but four times in five and a half lines, the term of sustainable development turns out to be sustainable development. It is also important to see whether the definition of sustainable development in Article 5 is most appropriate or whether there are more modern versions, although ultimately the definition itself does not solve anything unless the other things are well done. This bill particularly highlights the role of state institutions and is strong on criminal provisions. Prevention is almost gone and thus the environment cannot be protected. The bill also noted a whole series of committees set up to protect their own interests and not the interests of environmental protection or public interest. It should be taken seriously to consider proposals to place a place in these bodies for members of civil civil society organisations for the protection of nature and the environment because I am afraid of the experience that the interest of large capital behind investors so much that in making decisions on environmental procedures, i.e. In the case of environmental impact studies, the public must be involved directly. The exemption from the necessary environmental impact assessment should also be significantly reduced. It is thus said in Article 65 that such assessments are not carried out on procedures serving for national defence purposes. All this points to how the Moreh interprets and military secrets and what could be put under national defence purposes. This leads to the fact that we could never discuss the Slunj polygon and the weapons used on it. Furthermore, one of the biggest problems today besides space management is waste management. The bill refers to waste management but the proposed solution equilibrates waste burning by recycling as a method of waste disposal. It is clearly not said that burning is a worse and more harmful way of dealing with waste than recycling. In the SDP, we advocate not for burn plants, although they should be for waste management centres, because this is consistent with the ecological concept of waste management. That part of the law will need further precision. In addition, Article 112 on environmental monitoring should specify an emergency procedure for independent pollution measurement teams. This bill can be given a series of objections, for example, in defining the state of the marine environment, the good state of the environment is stated and nothing is said for which it is good. The difference between pollutants and contaminants, etc. is not then respected. In any case, to conclude a big deal is ahead of us that in one constructive way we come up with a quality bill that will lead to the establishment of a complete system of environmental protection because once again I repeat environmental protection against our national interest. And between the interest of large capital and the interest of protecting the most valuable natural resources that we have a focus must be placed on this second because future generations are coming behind us, too, to which we must ensure the possibility of a quality of life because that is why we have created this Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88527	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88528	Mr. President, Mr. Pancic in his presentation stated one incorrect fact. I mean, he said more, but I'm just going to show myself to this one. Says the law was done bureaucratically. Well, of course that's not true. The law was developed in cooperation with all state, professional, public institutions responsible for environmental protection and the environment as a whole in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88529	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88530	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's another one in a series of inaccuracy fellow Pancics. The devastation of space is a policy with large capital and clearly emphasizes here the devastation of coastal space. So I can say that in fact, the devastation of coastal space took the most of it in 2001 when the decision was made that illegally built buildings could be connected to the infrastructure. For example, Vir, you know that well because the SDP is there in power. And I can say that this government has just stopped lawless construction not only by destroying but also by abolishing that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88531	Thank you. And the third correction by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative has made a lot of inaccuracies and a lot of false elaborates accusing everyone and everyone and especially the current government of not doing anything right. So he said there was no preventive action. You have not read the law or have not realized that there is an environmental permit and the essence of the law is to unite the conditions of environmental protection. Therefore, there are uniform conditions for environmental protection in the law. So, in this law, there's news that every factory will have to have a building permit for all the elaborates to protect the environment. And therefore, what you said is completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88533	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88534	Dear Mr. President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Let us have a few words on the proposal for a law on environmental protection first that is here today in the first reading on this House. First of all, I would say on behalf of the HSS Club that we support a proposal to pass such a law that should regulate certain relations in environmental protection. But we have a series of principles that I would like first to point out. And this is particularly three of the remarks that we consider at the HSS Club that this first proposal is not well worked out and we suggest that for the second reading of those specifically elaborated. I would especially point out that here with this law it wants to be passed as a roof law, which is quite fine, and that law goes into the measure of several sectoral laws. We think that in this way when all these laws are not particularly harmonised and I mean the Water Act, the Law on the Forests, Marine Fisheries and others, it would be good to strictly specify a particular problem regulated by the roof law in relation to the other laws. From my personal experience, he has the most trouble implementing legal regulations. Because we recently passed the Water Act, the Law on the Forests, which some even have P.Z.E. Marks, and now with this law they will have to be brought back. And I think there's always some problems in that part of the field, and then you don't know what law applies. It's the one that's the last one that's probably been brought in, isn't it? That's this one, which means he's going into the taste of other laws. So I suggest that for the next one, the second reading is more specific to these relationships that know which law is in charge of what? I think it's one of the basic remarks. Furthermore, when we talk about the obligations that central authorities will have on the implementation of this law, then it is said that the competent authorities for the protection of certain environmental components, for the sea,... pollution, natural resources, mineral raw materials to make a draft proposal for regulations or laws within a certain period of one year following the adoption of the strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So somewhere practically two years from now, that's what it's gonna be. We believe that these deadlines must be shorter, and for certain components these deadlines must be respected far before they have to be carried out. So that's why the HSS Representatives' Club sent a proposal for a law on light that talks about light pollution, and it's already in the process. He's committed to the president these days. I would just like to point out that exactly the light pollution works significantly, and it stems from the unprofessional management of systems, artificial lighting especially those in the open and discovered spaces. And only light pollution is every one of those light emissions that is directed up and unattended is transmitted into the atmosphere by a beam of light. We made that bill. He's going to be compatible with this proposal for a law on environmental protection, and I hope we have him on the agenda soon, and I believe that the Ministry will be positive about his proposal. The next third proposal, which we believe needs to be changed significantly and is defined in Article 127, relates to the refusal of requests for environmental information. We at HSS think that this article is not well defined because today the biggest problem is if we refuse, if the state body refuses to provide information that is related to some kind of pollution. We've had a few cases in the near past, and we've said, "You're not polluting." Not to mention now certain places where it was. And it didn't affect that after a while they would deny themselves and say, "Yes, there have been certain environmental pollution." And precisely that refusal to provide information is not one result of the democratic standards that we have in Croatia today and which should continue to have. So here I think State Secretary that in that part it would be good to get those three remarks to pay one attention to the other reading. Although I'm going to list a few more of these examples that are related to certain other articles that may be slightly smaller. These three I especially wanted to point out. So now I would point out some more examples that we think should pay particular attention to them and work them out. Article 5 on terms defines the concept of public interest which says: Public interest is the interest of the state or the interest of citizens, residents of units of local and regional self-government. We don't think that one interest is well enough. To add, at least so far we have had one interest to determine at the session of the County Assembly by a certain act. I think it would be a good idea to define this public interest precisely as a particular concept so that someone would not comment tomorrow or dare God abuse certain opinions and leave the interests to his interpretation. Similarly, this same article does not define the concept of "the area of influence" in terms of the area affected by the procedure. What can affect the environment in neighboring areas and even across borders, right? Such a definition would be good for many frequent questionable situations to include in the wording and later develop into the law. Furthermore, in Article 6 when we talk about the principles of environmental protection, I think it would be good to include the precautionary principle to which it is necessary or recommended to give up activity or procedures that have a scientifically proven or currently unproven likelihood of harmful and irreversible impact on the environment. This is particularly important in the component of biodiversity and landscape diversity. We also think that it would be good to develop this principle specifically in these principles that are being worked out. Furthermore, in Article 9, which speaks of the principle of preserving the value of natural goods, biodiversity and landscape diversity with the quality to preserve natural goods is equally important and the volume and should therefore be complemented by: "try to preserve at the level of volume and quality that do not endanger man". Furthermore, in Article 23, which speaks under the heading “Protect of Nature. ” I think it would be good to replace that title with a plant and animal world instead of nature protection. This would be in line with the definition set out in point 43 of Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here I would like to refer to the book of Professor Glavac “Introduction to Ecology” that we once learned at the Faculty of Forestry. Furthermore, in Article 29, I would draw attention to the reports of the European Environment Agency which, as a topic or sector relevant for the assessment of the state of the environment, analyses agriculture, forestry, energy, mariculture, transport, tourism, climate change, anti-zonal missions, air pollution, waste management, water and biodiversity. And the proposal ignores climate change as a central issue of environmental protection in the 21st century. I think it would be good to just by climate change in more detail and to be as one particular chapter as these other ones are working out in the bill. Further to Article 35 on the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the concept of natural communities has been used, which would be better replaced in context by communities with economic values. I think that would suit that context better. In the article 36 I spoke and on the Committee, it is related to the fact that persons who have a professional qualification for the production of studies the proposal was given that it seems to me that we do not have enough of these professionals that those who make the study can later participate in the monitoring process, although I do know that this was already divided ten years ago. But I don't think it would be bad to think about maybe making it possible in one part of the study that even studio performers participate in their work and monitoring afterwards. In Article 40, I think it would be good to list the designers of the strategy to specify the body of the state administration responsible for science, because the field of science is too important to be left out of this article. Article 43 of the Environment Protection Programme should then add one paragraph to the obligation to establish its compliance with the multi-level programme by obtaining appropriate prior consent at the stage of the development of the Environment, City or Municipality programme. In the whole concept of the law, it's being passed as such, so I think it would be good for this lowest level to get one higher body consent before it's brought itself. In addition, in Article 62 of the Environmental Impact Assessment on the acceptability of economic interventions in the context of environmental impact assessment, an item should be added to the same solution as set out in Article 60 for the strategic environmental impact assessment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the We believe that the three-month deadline set out in which the applicant is required to issue a guide on the content of the environmental impact study, particularly because of other deadlines, is too long and we think that the deadline should be significantly shorter. Whether 15 days or 30, but certainly much shorter than it's supposed to be here. Furthermore, in Article 101 of the principle provision, it seems to me that it will not contribute to the right objective and therefore it would be good for spatial plans to respect the ecological features of the area similar to that of the Nature Protection Act so that certain guidelines and directives are transposed in order to assess the impact on habitats and on the plant and animal world that can be practically seen only after a significant number of years of a given procedure and should be in most parts of this directive, so that they are not directly copied. But here they have a large number of cells in their content, but they should practically be concreteized in the bill's proposal. And once again, I would like to repeat this meaning of article 127, which I said in the introduction about democratic reach of information and simply for certain information must be presented in time and in the right way. This is a proposal for certain points, so I think it would be better to define it differently in the proposal, in this first reading for the second reading of the Environmental Protection Act. When we talk about a report in this past weather on the state of the environment for an 8-year period, and it's already been observed here today, I think it would be good for those reports to come regularly as foreseen by law every four years. It's not good to talk about a topic after eight years, and today we've even brought it together with the bill. Yes, although there were no objections, but I think it would be because of the importance of this topic that is important to us, and we know that the environmental impact is increasing. It would be good to then separate one, or to create a thematic session of the board or something to make a little more important to such a single subject, rather than to be joined by some law, and then who is present at it is, and who is not, is not. That's where I would point out the report itself. It is done in a very good way, and especially in the same way that what applies to the forest is very well presented and I am pleased that what I have seen and personally had the opportunity to work in the Croatian forests, especially on page 24. second item, here is where it is said about how much anti-fire roads have been made at that time and how reduced the possibility of fire is, in fact, not fire, but the prevention of its creation and shut-off that has been made possible with these fire roads and I think it is good to continue with that too. And these funds came in part directly from the Croatian Forest, part from the World Bank's loan. So here is the construction of these now over 3,000 kilometers, 3,000 and 500 and more, and at that time while I was still in the Croatian forests, close to 2,000 kilometers. This is one information that allows you to quickly and efficiently reach the site of the fire in such a way as to prevent it from spreading. Here, I'm glad the agency noticed here and there's one in the section of the report that refers to it as being apostrophysed as such. Here, in the end, I would say the HSS Club supports the meaning of the Environmental Protection Act proposal to go to another reading with these remarks that we have stated. And we will also support the Environmental Report for this period as such, and we hope that it will be brought regularly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88535	Thank you. 12 and 7 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88536	It seems to me that we are not even in the Croatian Parliament after your reaction from colleagues. Thank you very much. I didn't knock, I just dropped a kilo of paper we're talking about here today. ... Yeah, tough, sure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, this paper weight does not only talk about what counterpart Pancic was talking about about an alleged bureaucratic approach, but above all, according to our assessment and our court at the HSP club is talking about the importance of the topic we are talking about here. And that's, I'm in use of another term than it says in this law, the bill of this law. So it's not environmental protection, it's supposed to be a subject, and maybe it's a little bit of a termological remark that I'd like the authors of this bill to think it's really about the environmental law, not about environmental protection. Because environmental protection, protection is still just a method, and preservation is the goal. Perhaps it would be good for the law to set a termological goal, not a method. But in any case, I believe that the promoters will think about it, so we'll see. Namely, why would a termologically better protection of the environment be? It is precisely because the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia and in the Proposal for this Law very often mentions the term "sustainable development" and sustainable development is a method that goes towards the protection of the environment, not for the protection of the environment. Protecting is something else entirely. So even Mr. Secretary of State kept the opening word here on several occasions mentioned nature protection, which is the subject of one completely other ministry, not the one where he works. So nature protection is at the Ministry of Culture. It is certainly a methodology of pure nature protection in terms of national parks and everything else, and protected areas. So, I don't think there's any confusion in termology that I think in a single comprehensive text that actually wants to deal with exactly environmental conservation, and using a sustainable development method, it should just be termological: "environment conservation". But it is actually a conceptal approach to the environment in Croatia. It is about whether we in Croatia are aware or not, and to what extent we are aware that the relatively well-preserved environment that we possess in this country is, above all, our largest capital that we own. This country has no more capital than a well-preserved environment. And that's all the aspects that look back on this report, from tourism to certain parts of air, water, sea or soil protection. That's the biggest capital this country has. And that's what I say is a relatively well-preserved and unpolluted environment and soil and sea and water and air and everything that this report refers to. If we become aware that this is indeed our biggest capital then we will be dealing with the issue not only of protecting this capital but primarily of the management of that capital, which is today one of the most modern and crucial issues in terms of the environment in both the developed countries and Europe and the world. So, the Enviretal Management or the Environmental Management, not just the Enviretal Protection or the Protection. But in any case, however aware or unaware of how important this topic is for us at the HSP club, it seems that it is certainly one of those topics for which ignorant journalists or people who are termologically or professionally not usually know how to ask politicians and what it is to be a national interest. Here, ladies and gentlemen, preserving the environment in Croatia is a national interest. I'm sure of it. Now, that's a subject that can be quite clearly said. And we in HSP are deeply aware of this and we treat this topic as one of the crucial, national interests of this country and this people. Therefore, the concept of the conservation of the environment represented by the official policy or the policy of government is unfortunately manifested and through one, in fact, I would say the illogicalness which speaks of how we seem to be merely declaring this topic as a national interest, that we are more declaratively experiencing it as one of the fundamental capital that this people has, this preserved environment. So that's how we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Construction. Already, the very fact that the construction and protection of the environment within the same ministry is a lot of talk about the concept of this conservation, i.e. environmental protection, because these are two completely opposed actions. That's for sure. The builders would build everywhere, and the guards would protect everyone. Of course, a much better concept of those more developed countries such as this is mainly in Europe, and certainly in all European Union countries, that environmental protection and spatial planning are in one of their very special or ministry or state agency, depending on how they are organised. Sasma is certainly nowhere in Europe or in the European Union countries together with construction. For example, listening to colleagues of my predecessors, even those who had critically looked back on this Law and this report, for a moment I felt like living in another country, but I will say more about it when I talk about the law. Allow me a few words about the report itself. I'm not going to give my impressions, I'm not going to expose myself to correcting incorrect allegations, so I'm going to give this report an evaluation by quoting only the report. Let's put it this way in order from the very summary of the report and say so in the report. It's a waste. We've begun solving the problem. Smaller shifts have been made in the development of waste management systems between 1997 and 2004. Listen, it's a really defeating grade. We all know what condition our waste management system is in today. We do not have a waste management system in Croatia. We have a strategy that prescribes or in some way suggests different kinds of waste management systems, but the waste management system today we don't have. It is said so further in the report, since 2004 moves have been made in the development of strategic documents such as the waste management strategy, exactly, which was adopted in 2005 and the development of a waste management plan by the Republic of Croatia and that is all we have done today. No one in Croatia can say that he is satisfied with the state of waste management for the simple reason that this plan does not exist, that we argue about methodologies, not understanding that there is actually no one methodology for waste management, such as one of my predecessors, I think Mr. Ledinski mentioned or someone else as equalising burns, dumps and recycling. Namely, these are all methods and recycling and combustion plants and dumps are methods of one and the same system, they have nothing to be equalized, they must all be in one system. First he needs a junkyard. For years, we've watched TV-paid ministry ads that claimed waste is not garbage. Unfortunately, all waste is garbage in Croatia, and it is still not true that waste is really not garbage, but how? By collecting five packagings, plastics, glass, wood, paper separately, anything that can be recycled must be collected separately. When it's collected separately, it goes into recycling. If it's not collected separately, it's all put in the same plastic bag that someone put in the truck and drove to the dump, then it's all garbage, no more recycling. Therefore, the recycling method is conditioned by the separate collection of waste, and then one part of the recycling, and then the other part can either be postponed or we can burn it, but even if we burn it, there will be something left that we will have to put off somewhere. It's some radioactive slag, it's some mixture full of heavy metals or whatever. Therefore, of course it is in the bill of law, all the methods are uniform because they are methods that must be part of one system and recycling and waste reduction and incineration and disposal. Without any of these parts, it is impossible to manage waste in the absence of any of these methods and it is not necessary to define any method, especially since they are part of one strategy, one plan. Unfortunately, none of this has been done to this day in Croatia. It is further said in the report on the issue of waste avoidance and reduction has been recognised as a priority objective, but implementation lacks systematic access and systematic education in the area. That's what the report says. Indeed, we can express ourselves commendably about this report as much as we want, but what is more than worrying about it is simply a fact, and what is best is that report and it does not hide that condition that we have. It is further said, for example, that the cost of waste disposal services is still most often calculated towards the residential area, not according to the amount of waste generated. In fact, in 95% of cases, it counts towards the living area, not by the amount of waste, which is actually contrary to the law of the ladies and gentlemen. We in this House have passed a law saying that it must be calculated according to the amount of waste generated, but the report says it is still not calculated according to the amount of waste. And then I ask you a very simple question. Education, waste management, separate collection? Of course I do. But where do people stimulate themselves? Where the stimulation besides that measure of collecting plastic bottles and bottles has actually turned into some kind of social measure in Croatia, unfortunately where there is actually some other motivation that people separately collect waste and thus allow over 50% of the waste to actually be recycled. How do they pay for waste transportation to a square metre of their living space? If they were to pay according to the amount of waste to be transported, then they would certainly be careful to throw the glass into the glass, to throw plastics into plastics, to throw paper into paper, to throw organic waste into organic waste, to throw aluminium into aluminium, to throw the iron into the iron, so to separately collect waste, because what would remain would be less and less to pay for the transport. However, as long as you're paying for a trip to the square meter of your apartment, most of the people don't care, and no education is going to help them collect waste separately, and they don't put it all in the same bag, and that all of this together doesn't go to some unsanitary dump, etc., etc. It is said that almost all amounts of collected municipal waste are delayed to the dump. It is in this report and it is defeating for Croatia, for the strategy, for this report, for the law that we are talking about and whatever you want. So much for waste. Look at this score from the report. There are no data in the Republic of Croatia that systematically monitor the quantities and types of chemical products and chemicals available on the Croatian market, and data on the production and consumption of chemicals in the Republic of Croatia vary greatly depending on the source of data. Different chemicals are found in products that are used daily, food, furniture, cosmetic and hygiene products, detergents, medicines, colors, plant protection products etc. Their number in use is increasing greatly, indicating an increase in the number of relevant licences, etc. It's an impenetrable problem, so-called. Standing organic contaminants of POPS, etc. The POPS problem is covered by the Stocholm Convention 2001, which is also the signatories of the Republic of Croatia but has not yet been ratified. Why didn't we ratify that convention? Because we obviously can't apply it. A few words about the rest of this report. There could be a lot of talk about air, noise. I said something about chemicals. They mentioned colleagues Sisak, Karlovac, water, etc. But look at only one thing. We all undoubtedly agree that water is the strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia. How do we treat her in this report? It is said: Industrial waste water loads have been reduced compared to the pre-war period, which is primarily prescribed for smaller production volumes. Only about 20% of industrial waters released directly into the natural receiver are cleaned. This means, directly dropping into streams, rivers, lakes and seas. 80% of industrial waters, directly. That's, quote the report that shows that data. So that's actually fantastic. The strategic resource of water, we actually treat it in such a way that walking a dog by the stream can actually tragically end. Now, that's our relationship to the strategic resource, which is also in this report at last. Waters could certainly be talked about as much as you want. The sea. More, we've declared an eco-fishing belt. We've put him out of power. We have already asked on behalf of the HSP Club several times, why does the ecological part of this law not apply if, for some political reasons, the fishing is not applied? No, I don't. And even today, the tankers are washing their tanks in our sea, and they're polluting it today and they're bringing thousands and thousands of foreign organisms from other seas today where their ballast tanks are full, and they're still changing our image of biodiversity and in every way possible, without talking about industrial wastewaters that are being released directly into the sea. We could also talk about the GMO problem, but you know what, I'd like to quote a part of the report on the ground in Croatia. We claim that our strategic resources are water, agriculture and tourism. Look at the farm. The ground is said to be the most neglected resource that has contributed to the lack of a complete ground protection policy in Croatia. The use and quality of soils are changed due to intensive industrial and agricultural activity in an inappropriate way of disposal of waste, mining, extraction of mineral raw materials, military activities, various excises. According to available data, 2 thousand 300 potentially polluted locations were recorded, and for 69 locations pollution was confirmed. The pollution of soil and water originating from agricultural production shall not be systematically monitored. Of course, speaking of food here, the impact of agriculture on the environment is reflected in soil, water and sea pollution and in contributing to global warming due to greenhouse gas emissions. Globally, because of the growing needs for food production, agricultural areas are expanding, production is intensified, protection funds are increasing, manipulations are being made for greater yields and better resilience. Here, first of all, it refers to the GMOs that we so joyfully introduced into our agriculture. And all of this inevitably leads to an increase in environmental pressure. If I wanted to be cynical, I would say, of course, this policy solves it in a way that imports food. We're not going to protect our soil, but we're going to introduce one 7.8 billion euros in food, so we're going to have a little healthier food, etc. It is said that tourism is becoming the fastest growing industry in the world, also one of our strategic economic specifications. And in Croatia is the main strategic definition of development, according to this report. Nevertheless, the planned systematic evaluation and protection of all tourism potentials and resources have not been achieved. That's all the quotes in this report. To conclude, if I were to conclude on behalf of the HSP Club on this report, the conclusion of this report would be that this report is really excellent, but that the state it shows is worrying and with a bad tendency towards deterioration. Or as our esteemed president of the Parliament would say, in the first half, you were bad, and then in the second half, you gave in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88537	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88538	So here's what I'm going to do with this Pecek quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88539	Thank you very much. It's enough with this quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88540	That'll be enough for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88541	That's enough with the reverse order. It's a patented saying, yes. That's what he said... Zaratustra. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I have to admit that I didn't understand anything from this presentation by my colleague Rožić. And what I am and what I am correcting is that he has objected to positioning nature protection within this report. Perhaps if it is not read, if nothing else is known, this list of designers and associates who participated in the development of this report where the Ministry of Culture is mentioned twice in the tourism chapter, where it is seen that the press of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Culture that cares about it is unusually important and that in their interactive action the essence of what you have obviously not read, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88543	It is not this colleague's correction to an incorrect quote, this is the comment of one claim, so you don't have to intervene with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because, anyway, let's go anyway. There you go, anyway! ... There is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can hurt a little bit of the Rules of Procedure, too. Mrs. Mayan really didn't understand anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88545	Now again. Now again. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. [[Intruder: Warning!]] Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88546	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I have to correct a colleague who says quite loudly, saying, "All waste is garbage in Croatia." Although later he tried to loosen it up a little bit, it's really not true. There are no more villages or cities where there are no green islands with lots of containers that are regularly filled. So a lot of waste, useful waste collects. We have so much that even a part of the useful waste we export to China. Here's what the secretary of state already knows. Furthermore, it is incorrect or not in general, which means it must be incorrect because in Zagreb alone, the waste is still paid for by square meter. In most cases, it is paid according to the amount of waste. We've had it, we've had it since the '90s, I'm sorry since 1993. ......... Mr. President, if these two are running an election campaign, I'm asking you to protect me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So since 1993 we've been collecting... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88547	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88548	Waste by volume.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88550	And just yet, I'm sorry I got interrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88551	Don't, don't, we can't Don't. [[I was interrupted all the time, Mr. President.]] Don't let anyone in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88552	And recycling is done on, at the dump. They don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88553	The recycling is done at the junkyard. Mr. Kovacevic, please. ... What's this about? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88554	So it's about the violation of Article 209 that you should have warned an esteemed colleague because Mr. Rozic quoted the reports in which this particular data is precisely available. But then you don't, if you haven't read the report, you can't correct it. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88555	He didn't, he didn't just, he didn't just quote the report. There were extras. Well, I listened very carefully, yes. ... Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what we're going to do about the quote, about the election campaign. When are we going to be so theatrical? The theatre performances, I would like to correct one quote that will give a picture of the entire exhibition, which is that Mr. Rozic said that the Stockholm Convention was not ratified in the Assembly. [[Not like that.]] She was ratified in the Assembly only Mr. Rozic forged everything as well as exposure, right? And besides, all he's listed in this report is, this is, can I speak? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88557	Order, please, colleague Rosic!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88558	Mr. Flowers... Mr. Rosic, report 2005 [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Don't.]] You didn't understand, you didn't read. [[Agreement: No throwing!]] By 2005 there was a report. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88559	So peace please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88560	But it's ratified. But it's ratified now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88561	Well, gentlemen, MPs! ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Correction is an incorrect assumption that it isn't, you said it wasn't a ratified convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88563	You said it wasn't ratified. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88564	Peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88565	Don't be mad. Don't be nervous. ... [[Intruder: Peace!]] Don't be nervous when you're caught in [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the act, in the act. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88566	Thank you. No more. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88567	Gentlemen, you're caught in the act and now you're yelling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88568	A colleague of Zubović! Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88569	Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88570	It's over. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. [[Intruder: It's not over!]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... No injuries to the Rules of Procedure [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, because it's not working, please! [[The intruders don't understand.]] Comrade Kovačević, I warn you! [[Intruder: Stanka on behalf of the Club.]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Warn yourself. Remind yourself, not me!]] Please stay seated. Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... I can't let you throw away another MP all the time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no pause. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Take a seat on my friend, Peru. Here you go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Order! Please sit down. Please sit down. I heard you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Take a seat on my friend, Peru. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88571	Thank you, Mr. President. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88572	I give you a warning about the demeaning of the chairman, Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88573	Injury of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88574	I take away your word more. Here you go. Second warning, and I take your word for it. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88575	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed appreciating the debate of Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić and his concern for the protection of the country's environment and natural resources, especially when it comes to the sea and does not slow down any possibility we have not used to declare the ecological component of the protected coastal belt, the eco-fishing belt. But I simply need to correct one inaccuracy that you have led the tankers to wash their tanks and cough in a Croatian protected eco-fishing belt. It's just not true. Because of the sailors I have to correct you because, are provisions... international conventions very strict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And more importantly, stricter controls and measures and procedures are being taken. So each ship has to depend on the number of crew members having the normative to deliver by arriving at the port. It must have a book of oil and oil water. Must have confirmation where he is I delivered those waters. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] So it's simply not true that sailors abuse it to wash tanks in... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88576	And distinguished representative Franjo Arabovic. Correction of an incorrect quotation [[I said. They're handing them over at the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88577	Thank you very much, Mr... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88578	A colleague has no controversy! Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88579	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegation of the esteemed colleague of Representative Rožić... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88580	Please calm down! Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88581	He says, says an esteemed colleague, that citizens are guilty of not taking care of the amount of waste because they don't care. They pay per meter of housing. A square meter of apartment. Yes, sir. I've lived in Zagreb for 25 years and in 90% of our buildings we don't have 3 containers but only 1. And it's mostly full. And now I live in a street where there are no containers at all, but people leave bags by the road or hang for pillars of lighting. ... Well, here it is, I'm saying that it's not the citizens you said it was, but we don't have the conditions for, to do the waste as you said we should work. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88582	The PGS Club of the SBHS of NDS, a respected representative of Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88583	Here, take it easy. I have a light hand. Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the Ministry. So let me refer to these two documents on behalf of the Regional Party Club. The report itself and the Environmental Protection Act. So the report only tells us about the period from 1997 to 2005. But I would agree with those who are saying that today is not a much better situation than it was in 2005 and that it was, in fact, observed in this report, and this is also confirmed by these current statements by Mr. Arabovic who say that there is no container on his street today. So also the systematic principle of waste disposal that would really have to be based on the amount of waste driven and not on the cubic display of the house, building or the like. And I'm going to talk about the waste today in my presentation on one document and another. Why about the junkyard? So that's what we've all been talking about today, and we're all admitting that waste management is in the right way, so in a quality way, it's actually the biggest threat to our environment and thus the health of our people. Well, this report itself also admits that the state of waste management is very bad. And that's what this last table tells us where the graphics are shown about how certain goals are achieved. I think this passport, this part of the articles about the waste, is actually the only part where there's not one smiley smiley smiley face or they're indifferent or they're scrawny. So the achievement of the objectives of the national action plan on the environment as regards the point of construction and establishment of the entire waste management system is therefore indifferent, i.e. This tells us that the achievement of the goal is not visible. Putting down the self-resistance waste of the September is a bit of a bitch, which says the goal isn't being achieved. In the section that speaks of material and energy evaluation of waste, we also have a cool eye. Avoiding the creation of waste is also a bad idea for us, and this is about prevention. Also, the application of economic measures September is indifferent, i.e. The goal is not achieved. So there is no important point in which this smile is smiling, in fact it also suggests that neither we can be smiled nor satisfied with the application of the waste management and environmental protection system, the more the data in this report tells us that from year to year in the Republic of Croatia collects or generates more and more tons of waste. As far as I was able to calculate from this report somewhere annually in Croatia, more than 3 million tonnes of waste is created and it is a production waste that is produced in mills of millions and a half. Dangerous technical waste 42 thousand tonnes, animal waste 67,000 tonnes, municipal waste just over a million tons, packaging waste 245,000 tons, waste on vehicles 60 thousand tons, waste tires 30 thousand tons, there must be other categories of waste. We can only separate all that waste into twenty-five legal dumps. In the legalisation process in 2005, there were 40 of them, there were 36 official ones, 86 were agreed. So that was in 2005 and today I doubt the situation is much different. Also, in the Republic of Croatia there are a large number of unsettled or wild dumps or dumps. According to some data, there are 257 unregulated official waste dumps and about 300 wild waste dumps. Dangerous waste is not collected separately, so all dumps and dumps are dangerous waste, everything is thrown into one container, a bucket, and so is all hazardous waste from households, agriculture, small crafts. It was the same here just before the debate. Unfortunately, my same opinion is as far as I know that most of the waste in the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately taken care of in exactly that way. So on both the official legal or the illegal junkyards, they end products containing asbestos. There are residues of pesticides, herbicides, paints, batteries, fluocives, etc. It is also alarming that waste is burned and burned in some seminars and production waste in technology processes of economic operators. For this there is no detailed list and effective system of control and sanctioning of waste burners. The percentage of recycling of waste relative to total waste is very modest, only around 10%. During the past years, many have been examples of ecological excesses and poisoning caused by uncontrolled waste disposal, i.e. wastewater and gas emissions. Many of them or some of them were debated here in the Parliament. So, at Ploč there was asbestos, in Vranjica there was asbestos, also asbestos, in Karlovac ammonia CO2, in Sisak naphtha CO2, Savskom Marof chemical compounds Pliva and... in Zagreb, the subsidized area of the former cement factory was devastated, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of environmental incidents, the timely reactions of the competent services of the institutions are missing and it is evident that there is no effective control over what is happening in the space. There are examples of the subjective mentality of leaders in local government bodies according to environmental polluting economic operators. The full non-transparency of local authorities' decisions on the construction of new facilities that pose a threat to sustainable development, so citizens' health and the clean environment, for example plans to build a Zagreb waste plant, regional waste management centres that have not preceded encouraging measures and campaigns to reduce waste volume, etc. So all of this tells us that this law that we're proposing today is very important. So it's about the Environmental Protection Act. We think, therefore, our club thinks that one of the important issues that should be resolved is to answer the question of which direction to move towards implementing the municipal waste management strategy. Therefore, it is a majority part of household waste and similar waste from production and service activities, i.e. a small part of some types of waste that are already partly collected separately, such as packaging, batteries and oil batteries, tyres, metals, vehicles and the like. The decision is related to the selection of the ways in which the waste will be collected, the selection of the location of its delivery and processing, the selection of the technology for its processing or disposal, and the manner in which existing landfills will be rescheduled. Key polemics that are being led, i.e. which opened before a certain time is whether to burn waste in existing cements, and whether to build combustion plants, i.e. infrastructure subordinated to incineration of waste such as MBO centres, i.e. Centres for mechanical biological waste treatment, cement plants and similar or altering the strategy by giving up such construction with a complete focus on separation, collection and recycling of waste in the recovery of existing landfills, which is covered by the club of regional parties. Croatia is fortunate or unfortunate to take what chooses the right direction of the waste management strategy is not conditioned by some earlier technology. We're actually moving from a zero practical point of view because of the use of existing economic resources. In doing so, the incineration of waste in cements due to exceptional health and the environment should not be taken into account but should be prohibited. The decision will determine whether the direction of development of the Republic of Croatia in the field of waste management for many years, and the choice of the wrong concept will have major financial and other consequences for the interests of the Republic of Croatia, which will later be very difficult to change. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other institutions that should assist in the financing of the waste management infrastructure project do not condition their support by selecting a particular concept or technology. The members of the regional parties, therefore, in this law, that we, in the Environmental Protection Act, should be determined here, so we propose that the following Article 29 on the point on waste management is added to Article 30, which would therefore be the first item to read: “A consistent environmental concept of waste management is based on separate collection of larger household waste and recycling, and a complete focus is necessary to this objective and ultimately zero waste concept.” Second paragraph. Unsolicited forms of waste management. Because of its harmfulness to human health and sustainable development, thermal waste treatment. It's a waste burning plant, burning waste in cements and energy and mechanical bioprocessing centres for the preparation of burning waste. So we think that in the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to establish a consistent ecological waste management system based on separate collection from household and recycling. Based on a number of advanced cities and even in the world that recycle more than 70% of their waste and make more use of it. Today, Croatia may be recycling 10% of its waste, and the goal is, according to the strategy, to raise it to only 25% by 2025. This concept is beside other advantages, it is more ecologically justified, ethically more acceptable. Huge savings are being made in natural resources, economic companies are being stimulated to recycle across the country and seek to reduce waste generation. And also this system is the smallest and quadruple cheaper than building a burner and an MBO centre with their known faults which are therefore environmentally unacceptable, profit goes to one company or to a narrow group. He also acts demotive for recycling. This is with the philosophy of profit more difficult to produce waste especially for burn plants where there is a need and a necessary disposal for toxic slag, etc. etc. There is also a good example in Croatia. It is the City of Krk which has therefore gone into the project to take care of waste precisely on this healthy concept, on the zero-waste concept. So, after a year of applying such a concept, the City of Krk has noted that it is already collecting 25% of that waste. So our position is once again to repeat that the waste management system itself must be based precisely on the ecological principle, i.e. that waste management does not further pollute the environment and endangers the health of our people. We agree, therefore, that the opening of the possibility for the Republic of Croatia to open up to a greater extent these burn plants to this end. And in these burners, we know that certain objects that contain chemical compounds that threaten the health of our people again. And our view, therefore, is that the government must be clearly determined towards the burning of waste as a highly harmful method of waste disposal that promotes the creation of waste in the philosophy of profit compared to the method of separate collection and recycling of waste which seeks to reduce the production of waste by re-use, i.e. getting secondary raw materials. The same must be done by the county, municipalities and cities, and by the necessary changes in spatial plans to prevent waste burning. So, the Club of Regional PGS Parties, the SBH, the IMF accepts this report, which faithfully shows what the situation in our environmental protection system is, and we also accept this law in the first reading and we suggest that this issue be expanded until the second reading, so the article waste management with Article 30, where we propose that waste management is based on the zero-waste concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88584	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna break up a little bit and move on at 3:00. HNS MPs' club, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, is up. We continue the session and the debate. HNS MPs' club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88586	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to welcome that it came to the debate of the Proposal for this Environmental Protection Act not only because it requires Europe, but because it is a necessary need for our sustainable development that we are certainly expecting to a much greater extent in the coming years. Unfortunately, though, I was unable to pass all the material, so my specific comments will refer to some 40 articles. Waste management constitutes a significant segment of environmental protection and sustainable development, and this law should be subject to guidelines and lower laws as a roof law. In fact, I'd like to say that my entire debate is set up in three segments. In part, these are the remarks of environmental associations that I think you've received in one form. The second part is the part that, which the remarks have come from workers who carry out gas emissions control, and part of the third category is proposals, questions and dilemmas of the spatial planner, my colleagues who have come to me to ask you about these things to clarify if it is possible or to solve any problems through this law until the second reading. So let's move on to waste management. Therefore, it would be good to include in this law provisions which specify the key guidelines of this issue with the aim of environmentally correct treatment. These provisions would define the adoption of an ecological concept of waste management with a complete focus on separate collection of waste from household and recycling, and ultimately by adopting zero-waste concepts. Furthermore, it is necessary to clearly specify undesirable forms of waste disposal due to its harmfulness to human health and sustainable development, which are thermal waste treatment, waste burners, cementing and energy and mechanical-biological treatment centres for the preparation of waste for burning. The adoption of these proposals is of particular importance because burning waste is a procedure with very pronounced emissions of open and carcinogenic compounds and elements in the environment such as dioxins, furans, mercury, lead, arsenic and the like. The recovery of waste is the concept of a common indication of waste recovery for material purposes, therefore incineration. For the sake of unambiguousness, it is necessary to use separate terms. As a result of the use of a common two-digit name, waste burning is equated, it means equating waste burning with recycling as a method of waste disposal leading to its own confusion. Now something about making studies. The draft law retains the existing situation in which the holder of the procedure ensures that an environmental impact study is carried out. Due to the direct business relationship between the holder of the procedure and the study maker, it is often the case that the study is unobstructive and maintains the wishes of the institution itself. Due to the lack of involvement of ministry staff during the study period, it is difficult to control all environmental impacts of procedures described in the study when assessing the study. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt provisions that would ensure that the ministry has a study on the impact of the procedure on the environment, while the holder of the procedure has subsidised the department's cost of making the study and all costs in the process of assessing the impact of the procedure on the environment. The proposed provision of studies by an independent maker throughout the process would be monitored and co-ordinated by a ministry employee. It would also be advised that, as a member of the committee in the process of assessing the impact of environmental interventions, as defined by the minister, an expert representative of environmental associations in whose area the operation is planned also participates. As a result of the frequent occurrence of commissions taking the hand of the holder of the procedure, and due to the more objective procedure during the assessment, it is also necessary to ensure the presence of the expert representative of the other party in the decision-making process. Later on, I'll explain this a little bit more through one article. The problem is that chemists and other professions cannot have the status of authorised engineers, so as such they cannot participate more significantly in the assessment of projects that have an environmental impact, and they should be unimpaired when it comes to environmental protection. As early as 10 years ago, at the time, the Ministry of Construction opposed chemists and other professions such as geologists, technologists, to enter as authorized engineers into some bodies dealing with environmental protection. Today, it would really be necessary to enable these professions to participate in all bodies where evaluations are made, including strategic, environmental impact. The special regulation requires better resolution of the exit of independent pollution measurement teams in case of emergency situations and reporting. It's unclear why years ago, a expensive paid-out van of truth was in the State Inspectorate, the so-called State Inspectorate. A mobile measuring laboratory with the most moderate equipment for spectral analysis of the composition of the substance has been abolished, and has been designed among other things for these purposes. It happens that the ministry is launching a measuring tender so the team intervenes after two weeks from the moment it was possible to determine pollution. It is necessary to specify the procedure in a way that the right facts can be established by an emergency procedure. The closest example is the situation in Karlovac. Now something to do with the observation of spatial planners. In the proposal for a new Environmental Protection Act, the following parts may be singled out in the section relating to spatial arrangement. In the context of environmental protection, the principles of overall approach introduce a principle of obligation to take into account, in particular, the sensitivity of the environment in a given area, the relationship to the harmony and value of landscapes, the relationship with non-renewable and renewable natural goods, cultural heritage and material goods, and the total of their interactions and interactions with existing and planned environmental interventions, Article 11(3). In accordance with this principle, and as an instrument for environmental protection, an obligation is introduced to carry out a strategic assessment of the impact of the plan, the programme and the relevant strategic document on the environment, which is required for the planning documents adopted by the County Assembly among others, which relate to the spatial arrangement. As a result, there are other documents which may have a significant impact on the natural values and the area of the ecological network according to the specific regulation, and for the planning documents for which the prior assessment of the need to carry out the strategic assessment has established that its implementation could have a significant impact on the environment of Article 50(1). In this respect, the procedure of the previous evaluation shall also be subject to the spatial plans of the major cities, but also to the municipalities if it is prescribed by the spatial plan of the county as well as to their changes and/or additions. All essential elements for the implementation of the strategic environmental assessment process and the previous assessment of the need for strategic assessment will be defined by a specific regulation to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within one year of the adoption of the law. It is prescribed that the results of the strategic environmental impact assessment as well as the opinions of the relevant authorities and, in particular, the competent ministry obtained in the process and the results of cross-border consultations shall be taken into account in the proposal for a plan document before its adoption, and comments, proposals and public opinion and the interested public shall also be considered. It is prescribed that, when drawing up plans among other things, it must be taken into account and the distance between, this applies more to, but between the facility and the residential areas, public places and ecological significant areas, etc. I mean, but it's not such a relevant question, because I'm making studies about, strategic studies for the environment. In the context of the development and adoption of spatial plans, and especially with regard to the proposal for a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, there is a series of ambiguities that we will have tomorrow and pro post at the debate, there are a series of ambiguities and possible difficulties in the application of this Act, i.e. precisely in the application of this study and strategic impact. So what I would like to stress further are concrete remarks per article. For example, Article 3 is mainly now primarily a reference to those who are doing emission measurement in, measuring gas emissions. This Regulation shall enter into 8 and 9. Encouraging the use of renewable energy sources, and in relation to sub-paragraph 2 of protection... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] diversity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no written instructions or any lawyers of the ministry who would give instructions on how and when to respect the profession, and when landscape architecture. At the same time, environmental impact study committee rejects some but not all environmental impact studies for the sake of the lack of expert opinion on landscape architecture. The commission seems to appreciate the opinion of an individual expert or architect more than the opinion of the profession. In fact, if you hide a tower of wind power in the valley, there's no way that renewable wind energy can be used in the sense of this law. And finally, in the background of a larger wind power plant on the hillside of augsburg, there's a nice cathedral in augsburg and nothing. The laws of the European Community on environmental protection are obviously not the ones that our Parliament should accept as a law of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Relations that so far the new law allows the local community, and even the smallest group of individuals, can block projects of interest for Croatia. Remember, unargumented attacks on all planned investments of interest for the defence of the country such as radar or Slunj, the construction of regional landfills of municipal waste, sewers and waste water purifiers, not to mention transport and energy highways, and we are awaiting the adoption of all possible spatial plans for local and regional municipal combustion plants and ultimately dangerous waste. The interest of the Republic of Croatia and the region must be above the interest and noise of the uninformed and manipulated groups, respecting every principle of public and profession if we have such a view. In this context, it would be particularly important that representatives of associations, primarily eco-organisations, be legitimately involved in committees that I had already talked about at the beginning. As regards Articles 5 and 30 thereof, the name of the person and the physical name should be deleted as there are, under current and future law, registered companies and experts who pass the expert examination. The waist should be above the individual who is so-called. a natural person with an opinion, especially if it is without an argument. Furthermore, in Article 5(4) of the 47th paragraph, the term "dose" should be inserted because... 17, each substance by definition has toxic properties, only the dose makes some substance toxic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the experts told me. In Article 5(4), it is not possible to delete a natural person from the authority of the public authority, as this is contrary to the European Union guidelines. It is not clear in Article 5(5), which is a major ecological accident. If it is an accident that does not cross the borders of the facility and the company, then it is an accident at work or fire, if it crosses the borders then it is necessary to prescribe what is a major or small ecological accident and what are the criteria for assessing it. The application to Article 13 should be accompanied by a specific regulation of the maximum amount of compensation in order to ensure equality before the law. In Article 28, when we talk about light pollution, we need to think carefully because without clear criteria in the event of the adoption of this Law, a well-imulated yacht may be able to pay a high penalty to a local sheriff after the berth on our coast, and the city of the host or city from which the guest comes for a much larger light pollution does not pay anything. However, in that vast chapter of the Penal Code, we did not find the prescribed punishment, but our world is resourceful and will wave law, not criminal provisions. The reference to Article 29 of waste management concerns the payment of fines. Who will pay the penalty for the fact that no report on gas emissions from municipal waste dumps for which studies have been made has arrived for almost 200 waste dumps for nearly a year, for which more or less funds have been allocated from the Protection Fund, for recovery, and for the legality of the implementation of the provisions of the law, it is likely that the environmental protection inspection is in place. Under the new Law on Criminal Provisions, in Article 202 paragraph 19, each landfill should pay 100 to 250 000 kuna. Reference to Article 35 of the Environmental Protection Fund. It's unnatural for a billion kuna fund to be deployed by a group or an individual. Therefore, it is proposed that the law be complemented by the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 and in order to contribute that the programmes for which the Fund collects the Environment Protection Fund after the Fund's proposal go to the audit and approval of the Environment Protection Agency to the value of 5 million kuna, and that, if more than 5 million kuna are approved then, after the renewed opinion of the Environment Protection Agency, a favourable opinion should also be given to the Environmental Protection Council. The same Article in paragraph 3 should also be completed that the payment of funds and the legality of the expenditure of the appropriations should be carried out by the Ministry of Finance in a special form established for that department. Article 36(4) should be deleted. Where a legal person has met all the conditions laid down in Articles 36 and 1 and 2 and 3 where it is referred to persons authorised for professional protection matters, the practical counter-constitutional provision referred to in paragraph 4 which prevents competition. After an environmental impact study has been accepted by the Commission, investors must call a monitoring tender to which they can access all authorised companies anyway, respecting the Law on the supply of goods and services. The legislator has ensured compliance with all the rules through environmental inspection and criminal provisions. In Article 36, paragraph 4 shall not disqualify any company because of the presumption of possible falsification of data. In addition, Article 36(6) and (7) incorrectly quotes paragraph 4 rather than those likely provisions as I said earlier on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Article 37 is also to have a new subparagraph 7 that the conditions for passing an expert examination are prescribed for each profession, for example, for quality monitoring and atmospheric emissions is one profession, for monitoring of monitoring of monitoring, and the mission is another profession, etc. Article 8 following a professional examination, a professional person shall receive a degree in adequate diploma from the Agency for Environmental Protection in the UK, the name of the leader or authorised head of the professional business. The conditions for access to a professional qualification and training exam may not be more stringent than an identical professional examination in the United Kingdom of England where eighteen months of training in the profession is sought. Article 9 is replaced by the following: The item 10th validity of the diploma and the expert examination refers to the experts and equipment to which an expert examination has been passed, which corresponds to the ISO standard owned by the company and for the purpose of indicating the name of the company. The value of the diploma is restored every four years and is not portable. Any provisions referred to in Article 38 should be deleted. Namely, how can this law be proposed by a universal environmental expert who will also be an auditor of a group of experts of various professions. This would be in medicine to give, for example, a proctologist to the expert opinion of cardiologists. For these reasons, the different professions that will be used by this law, therefore from spatial planners who have their dilemmas, because in spatial planning, this is directly linked to this protection law as well as to the titles of the remarks made by those who use their daily work this law and the provisions of this law and finally those which are located on the other side and these are various ecological associations. I would ask the promoters to seriously consider these remarks so that they will adopt until the second reading if possible and by then we will support the proposal of this law in front of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88587	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88588	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this is the kind of bill we needed, especially at a time when foreign capital that likes to behave in our country so much that it does not behave in its own country in terms of primarily paying for workers and then respecting and protecting the environment. We know how much and as a country we owe our standards and this normative framework is adapted to European standards and that it is something that is natural and expected of us. Well, on that trail, I would have had just the first reading as one very specific remark in Article 5(6) which speaks precisely about the legal interpretation of certain concepts used in this law. So that's how it is, and what's very significant is that I think he's suffering and that he has to survive until the second reading. In fact, here it is defined as an industrial accident, so it is treated as some event that is hardly human's fault, but that's the consequence of something uncontrollable. So it's spoken in person. In this way, concrete responsibility is particularly not good when spoken in the introductory provisions of the law in itself, not in the very legal interpretation of certain concepts which are said to be applied later in this law. We need a principle of responsibility. Later on, something is said about the principle of paying for the one who caused the accident. But in terms of industrial accidents, we need to personalize things. So this accident isn't some event of more force, of external factors, but it's here specifically, so it would allow for the conclusion of activity. It's activity. What's that? Which is taken by a person or a legal person as a whole. It should also be assumed later, and in this law that we have passed, it is very little to say about us even though it was passed several years ago on the criminal liability of legal persons, and therefore I think that it should be kept in mind when it comes to not only clarifying the concepts but also later in the law itself. I would also like to use this individual debate of mine to look back on that first victim of great Western capitalism when a peaceful citizen of Karlovac Martinovic and his housewife Sher died. We have seen how much activity it took, so here we are from the SDP club reacting because the original reactions of the brewery owner coming from a very polite country and where even our judges acquired knowledge from European law and responsibility, and also with regard to such behaviour, so that he acted very offended as if this brewery had been damaged, and not here the first victim of capitalism in these areas was after a month of agony, or whom the citizen Martinovic died. And to make the tragedy even bigger, he was an employee until the retirement of that same brewery. So, and now this, the fact that the procedure itself is under way, they wouldn't say it, but maybe I'm saying this event simply obliges us to raise standards and to say now what is allowed and what states and things will not be tolerated in our country. I think it's good for one of our weeklys, and his journalist, by focusing on this situation, said, if we fall on this exam as if we'd told them what to do, you have a country like this for your dumps, and I'm literally quoting: with a clear message if we didn't strongly oppose it, and so do we here, in the Croatian Parliament, and even when we talk about this bill, when it comes to those same ones that caused our citizen's death, it would be said, if we didn't do so harshly and raise my words and established those norms and standards, your ideas, our corpse. So again, I draw attention to the fact that behavior is not only what we are going to be in the law but above all in its application. We need to take great care because such dangers threaten us more than we as citizens can and we are able to pollute the environment. These are the great dangers that lurk. And the message is precisely that these measures that they are propagating and that we ourselves must put into our own standard, that the first ones, they, they, they stick to and respect them. Our authority should not be prone to those who feel therefore, often having capital, which can even threaten if we apply our own laws to fire workers, to relocate their production. The government should not be allowed to recalibrate from such, but to show them, not only by passing such a law but by its application and by its very strict application that we mean it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88589	Thank you. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal for a new Law on environmental protection in Croatian legislation introduces the principle of a comprehensive approach to environmental protection. The proposal for a new Environmental Protection Act, which is the subject of today's debate, is a roof law that provides framework guidelines and the basis for a full regulation of environmental protection issues in Croatia and for this reason is popular and called a small environmental constitution. Therefore, given the great breadth of the issues covered by the law in question, which are all related to environmental protection, I have decided to dedicate myself to one of the new developments in this bill that seems to me to be the most significant change in relation to the previous approach that was in the Croatian legislation. It is a complete approach to protecting the environment. The Environmental Protection Act, which was adopted in 1994 as the first law to regulate environmental issues, has laid down very important principles such as the principle of respect for law, the principle of prevention and liability of pollutants for all environmental damages and the principle of public participation. In addition to these principles, the new draft law lays down a very important principle, the principle of a comprehensive approach to environmental protection. What does that really mean? It is that so far the environmental impact and environmental pollution have too often been observed in a partial way. In the case of an analysis of potentially negative environmental action, a particular medium or a particular environmental component was used. This specifically observed and legally treated waste, waste water, harmful emissions of gas into the air or the impact on the marine eco system. This law lays the basis for access that has a particular facility at the centre of attention. a particular factory, and then the overall risk to the environment that this particular plant represents. It therefore moves from one such unit which is observed in its real environment and for which it is estimated and then regulated and controlled the environmental impact as a whole. It shall be taken into account, at that time, the risk for all environmental components. And in order to enable the law in question, it gives us an extended prism of environmental components and potentially negative factors. In addition to so far, mention of soil, forest, air, water, sea, conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity and waste management is taken into account and protection against the adverse effects of genetically modified organisms, noise protection, protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and protection against light pollution. The introduction of the principle of a comprehensive approach to environmental protection ensures that no element of the environment is neglected in the protection and that all risky industrial facilities in Croatia are subject to special control and control procedures. The essence of the overall approach to environmental protection is contained in the new legal provision, so-called "the new law". environmental permit. It is a permit that must have facilities that can have a negative impact on the environment and in which they are defined. the combined environmental conditions characteristic of a specific plant. The United Environmental Protection Conditions shall determine which is the most favourable technical and technological solution for the facility to achieve adequate environmental protection and which conditions the plant must respect in its work. The basis for determining the uniform conditions for environmental protection is an elaborate on the idea of a technical or technological solution developed by authorised companies whose cost is borne by a steam and natural person who manages the facility. A decision on the uniform conditions for environmental protection shall be adopted by the Ministry responsible for environmental protection. It is important to note that an idea, technical or technological solution should take into account the need for the best available techniques to be used by the future plant in its work. This term is also the novelty introduced by the draft law, which marks the most effective, advanced level of activity and related production methods available at a given time and which ensures a minimum environmental impact for the given industry. Circular authorisation must be requested prior to the construction of the plant and any significant changes to the facility, and the combined conditions of environmental protection are set in two stages. For the first time in the phase of defining the facility's idea solution, and the second time in obtaining the useful work permit of the already built facility. This ensures that in practice i.e. during the test operation of the plant shall comply with the conditions set out in the planning phase. The most important element related to the so-called the environmental authorisation is the fact that the combined environmental protection conditions contained in the applicable installation permit are established for a period of 5 years. And at the end of that period, a new authorisation should be requested for the operation of the plant. This ensures that industrial plants constantly monitor the progress of technology in environmental protection and avoids the possibility of increased environmental pollution due to depletion of the plant. Finally, it is important to mention that the provisions on the environmental authorisation of the Croatian legislation are aligned with the acquis of the European Union, more specifically with the Directive on integrated prevention and control of pollution. The directive was first published in 1996 and currently covers about 50,000 industrial plants across the European Union whose work is constantly monitored to ensure the protection of the environment and the security of the citizens of Europe. This bill ensures that the most modern technologies are used in the Croatian industry as well, and that continuous monitoring and regular improvements in industrial technology are achieved to ensure adequate protection of the environment and of the health of the population. Thanks to the provisions that regulate the prevention of major accidents, public participation in addressing the environmental protection issue, the obligation to provide information on pollution, the development of a system for monitoring the environmental situation, education and verification of competences and experts dealing with environmental protection, we can conclude that this proposal for a law on environmental protection is an extremely modern and efficient law that will improve the quality of life of Croatian citizens. I would also like to say that in this morning's debate Mr. Rosic literally said: "The problems of the "POPS" are covered by the Stockholm Convention in 2001, whose signature is the Republic of Croatia but the convention has not yet been ratified". He further said, "Why haven't we ratified this convention?" And confirmed: "Because we obviously can't apply it." I must say again here that the convention at the 23rd session of 24.11.2006 was unanimously accepted and ratified in the Assembly. Therefore, Mr. Rozic has deceived the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament. So I doubt his entire exposure that it's true and that it's true when he tried to deceive us that the convention wasn't ratified and she was unanimously accepted from 93 votes. With no vote against. And HSP voted in favour of the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88591	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88592	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. And I'll say a few words briefly about the report itself and the law itself. The report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia from 1997 to 2005 I believe that it was given here as a whole, comprehensive and the situation as it is. What most of my colleagues and colleagues pointed out is the fact that the environment in Croatia is, that we have rather preserved when it comes to, and natural resources and that we can be satisfied on that side. On the other hand, it is pointed out that we cannot be satisfied with the way waste is handled and otherwise complete monitoring, monitoring, as well as the way to address certain problems affecting the environment as such. I'll say something about myself, about water, water protection and waste, in the first row of municipal waste. In terms of water protection and the water economy, I think Croatia is doing very well. And that the quality of water as well as water as a natural resource that is necessary for economic and social development as one of the preconditions is not a limiting factor for sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia, and on this side we should be satisfied. I think big moves have been made. Here are data from 2003 according to which public water supply coverage is 76% of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Channeling 43. By cleaning up waste water, 25%. I think these data, that these percentages are still better today and I think that today, when it comes to 2006, the water supply solution in the Republic of Croatia is almost 85%. It is certainly the government's efforts and competent ministries to resolve those parts of Croatia that have not yet received water supplies. There is certainly one key issue here when it comes to sewage, when it comes to water purification, waste water, and questions are raised by local self-government units. Issues also apply to economic operators, which is yes, the issue of water prices. The price means these services because we would like to have in some way given the social opportunities, the social opportunities and the purchasing power of our population to make the price as broad as possible for our citizens. On the other hand, we would also like that part, that municipal service to be at the highest possible level and that it does not have a negative impact on the environment. In terms of waste in the last 15 years, significant steps have been taken. 86, almost 90% of the population in the Republic of Croatia are being collected organised, organised waste collection. I must say that even under certain negative reactions from local self-government units where the dumps occurred certain dissatisfactions and so, but the Ministry of Competent Ministry has resolved this issue very effectively, very well by giving financial injections and education, by talking but in the first place by a quality disposal of waste. Although we can't be too close to being satisfied with the situation when it comes to this segment. Certainly, in the strategy adopted in 2005, the waste management strategy lists centres, county centres, regional management centres and that is what would make these centres economically sustainable. And it would be tolerable for local self-government units, i.e. municipalities, cities and the population living in these areas, in the areas concerned. Of course we should give, pay more attention to the collection, the separate collection of waste. In this way, the effects of the economy would be far greater. It means that such waste goes back to production on one side. And on the other hand, it would be less pressure on itself, on the environment itself. It is certainly for congratulating what has been done in terms of PET packaging and I believe that when it comes to vehicle, tire, etc. that huge and significant shifts were made. Certainly, for us as a candidate for full membership in the European Union, there is one great pressure on Croatia, we can put this under quotes, but this is inevitable in terms of the financial framework on the one hand, but what is even more important is the financial support that Croatia will need to have in order to realise all that is required and to realise the economic operators that are required of them. I'd like to say the following about the law itself. The environmental law was first passed in the Croatian Parliament in 1994. The modern foundations for environmental protection in our country have already been laid, and good works and directives have been used, the current directives of the European Union at that time. The transition countries are certainly, and thus Croatia is ahead of them, that they are set by the European Union by high standards that should be met in these negotiations and all the countries that are members today had to go through this. We know, let's just remember that in the former socialist countries when it comes to the environment, not a lot of concerns and not just emissions of harmful gases, but even when it comes to waste disposal, hazardous waste of municipal and other waste. In any case, the legal frameworks on the one hand and the financial resources on the other hand are our obligations to respond to. This is a roof law like Mr. Secretary of State said. However, we must remember that on the proposal of the Government in the Croatian Parliament we adopted a series, we adopted a series of laws from the set... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just mention some of them. Because now whether these were laws in full or were amendments and additions, I couldn't exactly answer the Water Act now by pointing out, the Waste Act, the Law on the municipal economy, the Law on the Forests, the Law on Air Protection, then the Strategy on Waste Management. We had a first reading of the Water Management Strategy so that when it comes to a single framework of legislation, it is regulatory that already significant shifts have been made over the past three and a half years. However, the government and the ministry have also made major steps in terms of financial support to local self-government units. Let us remember that over the last two years, nearly a billion and five hundred million funds have been collected through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which goes into new technologies and waste management in the way European countries do. Of course this is for me, I will repeat again that the public on one hand requires and pressures on waste disposal and the way it is taken care of by the general public when it comes to municipal waste, and I am sure that the competent ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will, in cooperation with local self-government units and with support and European funds and through service prices, address this issue in a quality way. The basic three principles that go through this law are primarily the principle of sustainable development, economic and social development not only for us but also for generations that come from one side, then for environmental protection in their fullness, in their integrity and in their third principle, although other principles are highlighted there is a pollutant... Certainly, certain financial obligations are imposed for both the economy and the citizens when it comes to environmental conservation, but this is our job and this is our obligation in the first order so that the level of economic and social development can go forward because it could be sustainable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Articles 62 to 74 state the environmental impact assessments where each investor is bound, any one who directly enters the procedure when it comes to the environment that has to meet certain conditions and I think that is clear, precise and well stated. In Article 101, spatial plans are very important. This is about spatial plans so that economic and housing zones are separated and defined, and this would also mean large financial savings not only for local self-government and state units but also for potential investors. In the article, Chapter 10 - Environmental responsibility in the 100th chapter, my remark goes within the meaning of paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 when it comes to costs and damages. I believe that legal and physical persons should be equated with units of local self-government, county, or state and another of my observations goes to Article 193 of the unknown pollutant. When I see solutions put costs on the burden of local self-government units...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88593	Thank you very much. Lock it down. Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88594	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the field of environmental protection since the start of the term of office of this Government, significant shifts have been made both in the normative area and in concrete projects. So I will mention that the Waste Management Strategy has been adopted. The Air Protection Act has been adopted with 9 regulations and 6 regulations, the Waste Act with 14 regulations and 5 general environmental acts. Otherwise, the Environmental Protection Act is so-called A roof law that systematically regulates the fundamental principles of the Croatian legal order for environmental protection. This bill will now replace the current Environmental Act adopted in '94. the year and which was our first law to regulate environmental protection. It regulates the fundamental principles of the Croatian legal order on environmental protection in which certain European Union directives were used, such as monitoring the state of the environment, the information system for environmental protection, and the basis for the establishment of air pollutant catastras. It incorporates a whole series of principles and institutions from international agreements on environmental protection, the Declaration on Environment and the Declaration on the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the principles of sustainable development from Rio de Janeira principles of prevention, public and participation, the principle of preservation of valuable natural goods and biological equality, diversity. However, after years of application of this now applicable law, certain precision and ambiguity have been observed. The need to complement existing and introduce new legal solutions has also been identified, given that new legal instruments have been adopted at European Union level, i.e. that the existing directives have been novelised. The new law and, on the basis of it, by adopting a series of implementing rules and documents, we will establish, we will fully comply with the acquis of the European Union and this process will end and should be completed by mid-2008. That is why this bill also respects two basic principles. This is the principle of compliance with the European Union and the principle of the protection of Croatian speciality, i.e. the protection of Croatian space. The proposed Environmental Protection Act incorporates European Union directives in the field of environmental protection and a series of principles and institutions in international contracts. This is primarily about the implementation of the provisions of international agreements or conventions and protocols in the field of environmental protection, the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across State Borders, the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accessors, the Convention on Access to Information in Public Participation and the Access to Justice in the Environment, etc. Otherwise, this proposal regulates the principles of environmental protection and sustainable development, environmental system protection and environmental protection, sustainable development and environmental protection documents, environmental protection instruments, environmental monitoring, environmental monitoring, information system, liability for damage, financing and general environmental policy instruments, violations and criminal penalties. I would particularly point out that the law consistently implements the principle that the polluter pays environmental pollution costs, as detailed in Article 142. The law. The law also provides for the inclusion of the highest public in addressing the environmental protection issue, which strengthens the public's position on access to environmental information, and public participation in the procedures for making plans and programmes and concrete decisions related to the environment, thus meeting the requirements of the Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation in the decision-making and approach of the judiciary, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in December 2006. The proposal also regulates the way in which the process of establishing objective environmental protection conditions for installations is implemented, and provides that the decision on the acceptability of the environmental procedures and the uniform environmental protection conditions is to provide information on the most favourable technical and technological solutions for the plant. The adoption of this Act will take significant steps towards harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. Sustainable development and environmental protection documents will set objectives related to sustainable development and the starting points of total economic, social, social and cultural development and set out guidelines for environmental management on the principles of sustainable development. The conditions, institutions and conditions for the development and operation of new environmental protection instruments, such as strategic evaluation of plans and programmes, are created, i.e.... strategic documents promoting sustainable development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A full assessment of the state of the environment is being introduced, information on the environmental protection system and further democratisation of decision-making is being developed. One word is a very good law that must surely be adopted in the first reading, and I believe that in the second reading, based on the discussions we are having today, the text of the law itself will be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88595	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88596	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. The reasons why this report is for an 8-year period, so 1997. – 2005 are listed in the introduction of this Report. During that period, the Environment Protection Agency was established in 2002. In 2003, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund was established. In EU membership negotiations, environmental issues are one of the priorities. Even if they are neither a condition nor a priority, the state of the environment is more than our interest, that is how it should be. At the very end of the line, it's a question of survival for ourselves. As it is an extremely large number of areas, a large number of issues, even greater data on each issue or area, which caused problems due to fragmentation, and requested standard and systematic, standard and systematic measurements, rather than vice versa, which was a common case, which required the harmonisation of methodologies for the whole work done could be considered an introduction to one next step, which is the information system of environmental protection which in the long term addresses these issues. In a commentary of this report, I'd stay in one section, one that refers to water. And you would immediately quote a sentence from the Report, clean water is not inexhaustibly good, so we need to protect it from pollution and use it rationally. Simply, briefly and clearly to say, say, write that. But to spend it certainly is something else, unfortunately harder. The Republic of Croatia is rich in water, i.e. by water with a fence conditioned by perhaps an unfavourable spatial and seasonal schedule. The annual water grip for the population and the economy without hydroenergy is 1.04 billion square meters. It's about 4% of its own water, which means that the amount is not a limiting factor in water use. There is a supply from public water supply systems, i.e. in 2002, according to the Report 76% of the population. Much refers to small - system water supplies that are mostly out of control, especially water quality control. It must also be said that there is an excuse for such a condition. Local waters were built in some time past, usually with an initiative called groups of citizens and therefore such fragmentation. Such systems, along with the above, are mostly quality controls and high cost of costing a space meter for unprofessional maintenance, unprofessional handling, net loss, net losses that exceed an average of 40% for the Republic of Croatia. And it's not hard to figure out what the price of that 40% average loss is, say, in one year. As far as affected water is concerned, something falls into the eyes of the users. For irrigation only 2%, and for, and on the surfaces of about 700 hectares, 7 thousand hectares. As to the quality of surface water in the report, it has been monitored in about 270 places, that surface waters of the Black Sea plum are, for example, in the second and third types of quality, that practices are mostly seasonal and that the possibility of self-cleaning is mostly satisfactory except for the central part of the Sava and the tributaries. No small share of surface waters are transit waters. They come in part from the member states of the European Union, Danube, Drava, Sava, Mura, where water protection issues are resolved or are being resolved in front of the Republic of Croatia. The other part certainly occasionally of problematic quality comes from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is most reflected in the Sava. It is perfectly understandable that the rivers and lakes of the Black Sea plum are more burdened with organic substances than rivers and lakes of the Adriatic basin. The underground waters of the central and eastern parts of the Black Sea Basin contain high concentrations and iron, including manganese, ammonia and arsenic, but they are clearly of natural origin. It's both a second and a third watery layer. The general assessment is that the state of quality of groundwater is well excluding the first water layer. This obliges all measures to maintain such a situation. What is a constant potential danger and a large disproportionate proportion of the population's association with the sewer system compared to the water supply of 43% versus 76%. About wastewater treatment devices not to speak, but it cannot be denied that it is also moving forward despite the fact that it is, that it requires extremely large investments. If there is a little follow-up about what is happening in that field, something else is being observed, especially after some incident situations such as recently in Karlovac with unfortunately tragic consequences. It is evident that there is to be called such privileged contaminants. It's usually the dominant plants in some place, benevolently, hiring a solid number of people, which is of interest to the local community. That's understandable, so then a little mildly viewed by their failures, competent inspections have slightly different criteria, it's easier to say looking through their fingers. There's something else when it comes to water streams it's almost a habit of throwing or letting in water, the water will take away. All you have to do is make sure someone lives downriver. The sources of pollution in the Republic of Croatia were not the cause of cross-border consequences which encourages, but the fact is that passersbys are extremely powerful self-cleaners. Systematic monitoring of the quality of surface land waters is constantly improving, methods have been standardised, agreements that regulate the issue with neighbouring countries have been signed, certain commissions have been established. It is expected that a unique information system for environmental protection will help in all of this. And finally, back to dry anyway, Mr. Secretary of State one comment on this report on page 11 of the shortcut interpreter. If CO2 is carbon dioxide, then CO2 is the equivalent of carbon dioxide, and if CO2 is equivalent to carbon dioxide, then CO2 is carbon dioxide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88597	And H2O is the same equivalent to water. Dear Vice President of the House, representative of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88598	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. Secretary of State. This report, which covers one longer period than '97. by 2005 on the state of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia I would particularly like to apostrophe one aspect of this problem and focus on the state we have in the Adriatic area by looking at the sea and the tributaries and rivers entering the Adriatic Sea, especially the river Neretva. Why the Nile River Neretva? So in the last few months, we've been through the media in some way, we've launched a series of initiatives, but at the level of clean day policy, not in terms of studio and real solution of the issue of the flow of freshwater through Neretva into the sea and all within the existing... the surface and where they were executed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the last 40 years in the Neretva River Valley, where significant social resources have been invested to reach these agricultural areas where the quotas of that land are four times below sea level, which means that the amount of fresh water that comes into the lower parts of the sea through Neretva so that only it can provide, the flow of that sweet water can provide... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the system to function as it is imagined, i.e. to give appropriate economic effects, which is why the whole process is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Start. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For many years, unfortunately, there has been a rerouting of large quantities of tributaries, water from the tributary of the left obelity of Neretva. By directing these water streams towards the Trebišnica Basin to mainly use these waters in the production of electricity. On the other hand, the fact that economic interests are put above the ecosystem as such and violates the known principle that water flows from one basin to another cannot be rerouted without, of course, study, state consent, etc. Today we have a situation that those rivers and tributaries from the left coast of Neretva that have actually fed most of them and represented most of the total water of the Neretva basin are now moving towards the Trebišnica system, impoverishing the flow of sweet water in Neretva, thus achieving such an effect that the breakthrough of sea water is becoming more and more internally threatening not only the entire Neretva Valley belonging to the Republic of Croatia, but it is jeopardising also the surface, agricultural surfaces and even the higher part around the Chapljina and higher Chapljina. At times, the quantities of this sweet water prevented the sea from entering to such depths as Metkovic or Capljina. There's no more today. All those investments that were in order to reach productive agricultural areas are now at risk because by means of capillaries salt is returning to the upper land horizons and there is a landslide. If the economic interest of the Trebišnica Republika Srpska and BiH is to produce as much electricity as possible, by taking into account the second stream, it is also economic interest not to endanger the fertility of the already meliorised agricultural land in the Neretva valley and not to endanger the fertility of the soil where huge resources are invested, thus re-emergering large areas, endangering permanent cultures that are below, and particularly of the community, and not saying that I am not at all jeopardising agricultural production of particularly vegetable, fruit-wine-radar production in the Neretva valley. A week ago, there was a conference of members of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, which consisted of Greece, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Italy and Slovenia, at which the conference was an attempt to highlight the priority of economic needs in front of these ecological needs, so the proposal was for that resolution or what it is called, a declaration, a resolution that was adopted the other day in Neum. The Croatian delegation rejected the proposal. We didn't accept that because we would vote, we wouldn't even bring a declaration, because we asked that not only feeding Neretva's waters but also all those underground springs from the mouth of Neretva to Stone where there are developed mariculture, where both mussels and fish farming have developed quite recently, because there is... water that comes from such underground springs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, such an composition is created to say the sea and sweet water relations, that this is the production and that is why it is possible as it is, of high quality. I warned, because I was down at that meeting to endanger the entire system and the economic and environmental, because the negative consequences, are disrupting the existing ecological situation down there. And it also endangers the production of fisheries and mariculture in the area. It was not only this aspect that was highlighted, but also ours, especially the Croatian initiative to specifically discuss the Adriatic Sea as a matter of fact, a closed sea where it is not possible to change the seawater because the Otran Gate and that position is so narrow The Otran Gate and the currents of the sea which actually make the change of water far longer than it would be under normal circumstances and that it is necessary that all the countries that, supervised and whose parts of the Adriatic Sea are from Greece, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Italy, be particularly discussed at special meetings as regards the Parliaments, and of course the Government institutions. So, we, it's high time that we don't just have this problem through outing, fishing, etc., but what we can expect in the future, and in the future we can only expect the excess, we can only hit, we can only pour ballast waters if there's big oil and oil derivatives. So, this whole area is potentially compromised and I think that our state and the executive authority and the Parliament must take special care of it. And not only take into account but also initiate appropriate arrangements and talks to make through the legislation of individual states and effective inspections extremely impossible such possible excesses that can be endangered mean not only tourism but actually endanger the flora and fauna of the Adriatic Sea, and then also the populations living on the Adriatic coasts and the consequences that can be not only mentioned in the ecological and major consequences of the negative consequences on the economic plan. For example, for Neretva, I wanted to show that our state must, in accordance with international conventions, any attempt to reroute water flows that are guaranteed by both international conventions and by the legislation of certain states, that any such attempt must initially prevent agreements and talks, and if not by other means that this would no longer happen in the future. And this water that is now heading towards Trebišnica has already compromised the existing eco-system and production in the Neretva Valley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88599	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88600	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am extremely pleased in this debate today that my colleagues are talking about certain problems, about certain areas within this area, and the major issues that the law contains, and this report on the state of the environment, which just means that everyone in our own way and everyone in our area may know some problems better than some others. So I'm going to stay, of course, in the area that's closest to me, that's culture. And culture in today's problem is related to tourism, which is also highlighted in the law and in this report as one of the specific items. In fact, when we talk about tourism, this report also says that tourism is becoming the fastest growing industry in the world and is the main basis of the development of many countries, and tourism is developing, of course, that cultural tourism from which we all expect a lot not only in some income sense but also in the sense that we show the world what kind of a country with what cultural tradition we are, that we always belong to Europe, etc. Now, when it comes to tourism and its growth as a leading industry in the world, the issue of protection and conservation of the environment is not and cannot be related only to the pollution of marinas, with the preservation of attractive areas, rivers, protected nature parks, flora, fauna, which is of course understandable that it must be kept. It is about preserving the environment in urban environments related to culture, with specific events related to tourism, which are festival activities. In Croatia, we have more festivals than several European countries combined, and I must say that some of you may sound that and we have fewer toilets associated with these festival events, or maybe we have them at the level of some of Albania or similar countries. Now, what happens when 12.5 thousand people enter the pulse arena to attend a single mega concert that has its break or break. It happens that at least one third of those people in that break have some natural needs. For years I have been monitoring events in the Pula Arena and this could also be applied and objected to both Split and its Peristil only in a much smaller number of relationships. For years at various gatherings, I've been trying to ask a variety of pulse city dads why they don't do anything for that infrastructure of the Arena pulse, a building that we don't need to talk about specifically, which is protected by UNESCO and I don't know what's being devastated, that's just being devastated because people don't know what they're going to do with themselves. And when you say only a thousand people go around the Arena then they pollute not only the air, the earth, but a cultural object that needs to be protected. Unfortunately, this report does not say anything about the problem. I don't know what law would have to find the problem of urban environments not only what happens in marinas and rivers to understand to what extent we are making a culture at the time of the summer events that last two, three months. Is this a question of this law or something else I don't know but when we ask a question specifically here from this report how Croatia can remain the Mediterranean as it was then I think that this kind of problem must come to the agenda because the issue of infrastructure is related to the cultural heritage that we want to show foreigners an essential issue. And I have to say that not once have I heard from even foreign delegations who have been invited to our festivals that very question. The peristil we protect in all possible ways will not even be in it for a while anymore, nor will it play plays to protect itself from noise, from the towers and from all that is happening in the preparation of a play. This Peristil receives 750 people per play, and when a four-hour break comes, at least half of these people are bauling around Split for various pizzerias and cafes to do their natural need. Please, I'm not ashamed to talk about it because I think it's really one problem that needs to be dealt with in practice and even in the context of a subject like this, a serious topic like the Environmental Act and the report. I say, it's about what I know best. I'm much less familiar with the situation when there's some kind of hararium in the marina, when a river is polluted, but I don't think this is any less important, so perhaps even this time, I'd like to ask my colleagues from Istria to finally try to do something about that famous Arena we're waving around the world, in whose programs this country invests big money, but unfortunately local self-government doesn't invest any lip to set up ten ecological toilets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88601	Thank you very much. We have a correction by Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct my colleague's misstatement. I think by mistake she only mentioned the inside of the pulse arena. I believe that you know that in the Pula Arena there are sanitary knots and what someone is doing around the city or around the city is a matter of his unculture. I live in Rijeka and I can tell you that every morning all streets are also polluted, so it has nothing to do with the pulse Arena or the cultural events but it's about unbred citizens wetting every canton as we say. Therefore, it is not a matter of any cultural event in the Arena or on the Peristeel, it is the problem of all our cities. And I don't think we can put environmental toilets in every city right now for that, but I think it would still be the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88603	All of this is within the framework of tolerance to speak and when it's not actually correcting an incorrect quote. So let's keep being tolerated, nothing's gonna happen to us. Thank you very much. She has Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88604	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, we tend to focus on two environmental components, it is air and water forgetting the ground or when we talk about land use and purpose but very little about land management in order to maintain its basic function, which is the habitat for plants, habitat for biodiversity. But we also talk a little bit about the importance of the soil in water management. We're talking about air pollution, damage to the ozone layer, and this in connection with climate change, which we've indicated a lot when we discuss ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. We often also talk about water quality, especially those intended for drinking, for households, or about water pollution and purifications, or the lack of water treatment. We also point to the basic economic sectors, industry, energy, agriculture, tourism that has the most impact on environmental components. When we talk about the use of land, we talk mostly from the point of view of redefinition and the permanent loss of oracies and plantations in building land and roads, which is inevitable. I found information that in the last eight years, we've lost 10,000 acres first of all of our fertile soil. Whether it's much or little difficult to comment on, but I think we talk very little about the processing of fertilisers and other agrotechnical measures leading to the poverty and degradation of agricultural land. When we point to chemical and physical degradation, it's important to talk about fertilization. Whether we are satisfied with the consumption of fertilisers per unit of a working area of 250 kilograms or 80 to 90 kilograms of active substance, which is not enough even to carry out with a yield, let alone that we can have quality control of nutrients, planly to master that we do not deprive the soil or how in the people we say that we do not develop this soil. We spent an average of 170 to 180 kilograms of active substance, which is somewhere in fertilisers of about 600 kilograms of fertiliser. The combineds even spent double precisely in order to get closer to both European contributions, but above all to the yields of profitable production. We don't even bring in organic fertilisers today. If we know there's a halved stock fund. Unfortunately, since 1991, when we had close to a million, a million pieces of cattle, or 957 thousand in 2005, this Fund was only 466 thousand, and therefore we very little return organic fertiliser to the ground. On the other hand, we don't have a plan for green manure. We don't have a plan in agriculture... The ground that was even prescribed before by the laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And precisely organic matter or what experts call humus primarily affects the structure of the soil then on the water relations in the soil and above all on water management. If we now know that by not entering organic fertilisers, the parallel humus is decompose, the soil is depriving, the water capacity is shrinking, and therefore we are leading the ground to desert soils. Drought is certainly the result of a lack of rainfall, but with better management of the effects of droughts can be less. We also need to open the question of how much waste, first of all, could be recycled towards the use of organic fertilisers because I say indeed our soils are being povertyed year after year. No reliable data on pesticide consumption. We estimate we're spending about two and a half kilos of active substance. Unfortunately, however, it is difficult to talk about the expertise of the application when we know that in agriculture only 8 and a half percent of middle - educated people, or only 0.5% with higher and higher education. The issue of residences is very important for organic agriculture, which today records 7 thousand 600 hectares. But unfortunately, that's only 0.2% of the total surface area, which is said laboratoryly that our organic production is still in trace. Our soil is acidic, or if we say that 50% of the fat is almost acidic, it's that we don't enter calcium as an important regulator of this property. In Europe, calcium fertiliser is an obligation to enter the soil. We just shyly introduced him into the fertilisers as a new kind of fertilizer. A particular problem is erosion affecting almost 50% of the surface. The climate and relief can be difficult to influence. But that's why they can control the vegation and the anthropogenic influence. That's definitely where we count the bad work. Advocacy... a rare assembly in relation to the dense assembly plants, the necessity of introduction, which indicates the need to introduce sustainable development and also to direct incentives to those cultures that retain soil longer under vegetation, which reduces erosion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report says heavy metals and his to tell local character. This is a fact and I think that better industrial control or better control of pollutants will certainly be controlled by the pollutant, and therefore this segment can be controlled as we have recently seen the reduction of acidification of soil by acidic rains because Europe has also begun to control air emissions from its industries and thus is already feeling this intervention. Oh... The floor in the Neretva Valley spoke to the vice president, however, I will agree only in the work with him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we basically haven't maintained the system in ten years. The groundwaters have risen, and the immersion from the groundwater is unfortunately far, far greater than possible are irrigation or streams with sweet water. The fact is that the pressure of freshwater could have reduced it but I don't think the whole system could have been based on the flow of sweet water but had to have other regulations, and that's what I still think isn't defined until the end of the owner. There is no regulated control of this system completely and from there salinisation is obviously growing stronger and one of the most fertile soils could become also desert tomorrow. In the Environmental Protection Act, only one article speaks of soil. I think it's article 18 of only 233. And, of course, it's a law that can't regulate all this, and that just points to the necessity of making a soil protection law that systematically monitors the state of the soil as regards pesticides of heavy metals, thus also regulating the slowdown of chemical and physical degradation of soils and better agrotechnics and better management and all in order to preserve healthy and ecological functions of soil. If this law obliges the Government to adopt a sustainable development strategy for one year, I think it would be good to oblige the Government to pass the Land Protection Act as well, because I fear that we will wait too long and not introduce measures of precisely quality and sustainable soil management as we address all these shortcomings that we already point to when it comes to environmental protection. Then there will be too much intervention to bring the ground into a normal, sustainable state because these processes are long-term and often even irreversible. And finally, I would like to read here a text that my colleague Rosic used in a negative context. Because of the growing needs for food production, agricultural areas are expanding, production is intensified, protection funds are increasing, various manipulations are being made for higher yields and better resilience, and all of this inevitably leads to increased pressure on the environment, and I will only add God to such pressure in the Republic of Croatia because this will mean that finally our agriculture has started, and with the environment we will certainly easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88605	It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Chuhnil gave me a good introduction to her conclusion and this debate. In fact, this report that is ahead of us is really comprehensive and is a good basis for further monitoring in environmental protection. I come from a city and county that has been lately, unfortunately, full of newspaper headlines like those "in Sisak is dying of cancer" which even more raises suspicion among citizens, so I would say almost already panicous fear and whenever it appears in a refinery and a little darker smoke citizens are already responding. It is also good, because the awareness of environmental protection is really increasing, and we see from this report that by the 1990s we have had perhaps an even more catastrophic situation but we have not followed this area as much as the factories at that time and large industrial centres, I have mentioned coming from Sisak, from a refinery that had environmental protection service since the 1990s, but in the public of that situation and these data were not known. What's been going on since the 1990s? Unfortunately, in this area of mine, an angry Homeland War, I'd say it's also left a lot of clues. This morning we started a debate with mines, and they've polluted the environment quite well. Unfortunately, we don't mention them very much here, but they are also involved in environmental pollution and that soil, especially the soil and this agricultural land that my colleague Chuhnil said. However, I can say that in these last years four, five years and local self-government and the government is making a whole series of measures to prevent not only air pollution, because large pollutants are not only Sisak. That's where we heard about Sisko and Brod. In my county there is also Kutina, which Petrochemy is a large chemical industry that is otherwise dangerous by its production to its environment in which it operates. But such large industries, which are located directly in the city centers, make significant pressures, I would say, on the environment. However, compared to all of Croatia, the situation in these large industrial centres is really worrying, because despite what seems to be in the legislation, the protection of large businesses still do not invest enough first and foremost in modernising their plants to prevent this. So I'm going to commit to the law now because the debate is united, so I think it's very good that this is in law, in this proposal for a new law in articles 17 to 29, finally, unlike this old law, all the environmental components are included in one, although jurisdiction is within several ministries. But it means everything will be monitored. I also believe that the Government must, and cannot, as provided for in Article 153(1) in specific rules to be adopted by operators and stricter obligations than the prescribed emission limit values if the improvement of the environmental situation cannot be achieved by some other measures. Because then the factories will do that – if nothing happens to me we saw it several times on the example of the refinery that started modernization five years ago so she didn't do anything, here until last year until it started with this claus facility, but that's not the end. Klaus is the least of the problems I think in the refinery. He will only prevent that panic in the city because it will no longer feel that unpleasant smell, and I think it is far greater pollution than other things when it comes to refinery. But I can't say that I come from an area that is a black ecological stain, although what happens in the media is we have and are lying in beautiful water-rich areas on our rivers, which unfortunately are once again polluted by the influence of these large industrial plants. But here, our Vice President of the Parliament mentioned the valley of the Neretva River. I will mention the river Kupa, which is also contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls but not from the Republic of Croatia, but from the contamination of the water environment from the Bela krajina region in Slovenia, where ten years ago the impact was still great. You won't believe that in the fish in our plum in the Sava and Kupa rivers you still feel the presence of these substances. So, we really need to make sure that in environmental protection we do not only look at ourselves and our problems, but also at our neighbours' problems and that we have to be at the signing of various contracts and international agreements in a very critical way. And we have another fortune I would say to the dear God given and nature, which is our nature park Lonjsko polje which is a unique park and which in its composition has two extremely preserved villages, the villages of the construction heritage on the trail of what counterpart Martincevic said about the preservation of our cultural heritage. It is the village of Kraple, a village of European construction heritage. Why do I mention him to the village of Cigoč, village of storks. These two villages are unique throughout Europe preserved with our old cabins. However, you will not believe that the air and environmental influence here did the same. In fact, a hundred - year - old oak has been started on these houses by the impact of these pollutions. Indeed, in the end, I have highlighted only some problems, so I would ask you to also consider the formulation in Article 2 of the proposed Law, where it is said that environmental procedures can affect the quality of life, human health, plant and animal life within the framework of sustainable development. I understand what you wanted. However, it may be somewhat different to formulate this sentence, because this represents in some way and some kind of danger I would say very often from the pressure that something that, which should not be a framework for sustainable development, I will say with one speech, is being dragged through sustainable development. Maybe that formula should be more stringent. And here, I think there's something else we need to mention and I suggest something else. In this article relating to the time limit for setting up everything according to the proposed new Law, Article 75(1) states in Article 220 of that article, it is in my opinion that even too long for the entry into force of the uniform conditions within 3 years of the date of entry into force of this article. It means that operators and all those who have to adapt their facilities are given three years, right, since the law was passed. Maybe that deadline, I don't think they'll be happy with the deadline, but you should cut it short. Here, anyway, this is a good law, you need to back it up. No matter how negative the objections made to this law and this report, I think that for the first time we have one such overall report that will be a good basis for monitoring environmental protection and one good law that, with all these remarks made by colleagues and which perhaps some associations will present, will be even corrected. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88607	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Velimir Pleša's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here is the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period from '97. By 2005 he initiated a great deal of interest from the MPs. And which is perfectly normal, since our wealth almost could say the greatest wealth of the Croatian state is in preservation, preserved drinking water, preserved forests, preserved Adriatic, preserved healthy soil. This is our greatest advantage in the mega-market of united Europe. Nevertheless, the galloping ecological crisis at both global and local level requires environmental protection to grow from the hobbyal action of enthusiasts in the priority way of behaviour and action of all social institutions, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By destroying and unwise use of nature, man himself is threatened. Because the environment becomes a source of constant threats, such as pollution, waste, new diseases, a comprehensive destructive power. The man perverted the notion of world governance and granted himself the role of all-powerful ruler who was certainly not divided into him at the beginning of the world. The spread of problems related to pollution and environmental destruction concerns all of us, all of us. Only a conscious takeover of responsibility and the joint action of all united and linked to the same fate can and should lead to an appropriate and effective solution to the global environmental crisis. Many environmental problems are caused by excessive consumption, particularly in developed countries. That is why it is precisely necessary to encourage and gain a sense of globality. Because greater knowledge and respect for the diversity of cultures and peoples in the world helps to understand the consequences of selfish consumption. The strategy not in my backyard solves the environmental problem but simply moves it to those who cannot resist environmental violence. Not even the saying, "Think globally, act local." It's not quite appropriate. It is necessary to learn, and it is necessary to mention that we and the laws will, in some ways, be discussed today, which will be more effective in protecting the environment and some comotion. For example, cheaper airplanes become routine, although they are much more hostile to the environment than trains or buses. Denialing a post is essential if we are to reduce environmental damage with global consequences. A critical opinion is also essential. Conscious citizens must be able to assess complex information and make decisions on things that cannot be easily predicted. Although it is quite clear that all of this requires a certain good education and education of people and that it is very important when it comes to environmental protection, it is certainly necessary to note that there is already such education in Croatia, from kindergarten even to high school, and especially later in colleges. Although I have a feeling that sometimes it seems to be just declarative because outside the classroom the action is not consistent with the observed state of the environment. For example, the number of cars is rising dramatically, a dramatic increase in CO2 emissions threatens unpredictable consequences. In the last 50 years, between half and fifth of the ecosystems have been changed by human activity. Despite increasing both education and especially scientific literacy, public awareness and understanding of environmental problems is low. People even naively fall for the supply of clean energy sources such as hydrogen, not linking hydrogen production to the consumption of dirty energy. Or, for example, ethanol production as an energy source that requires investing other forms of energy and causes many non-refundable changes. Respect for nature is a prerequisite for ecologically conscious citizens, but it seems that only learning about it is not enough. It is certainly environmental education that must include educational procedures, but not only as regards students, students, but also parents and all other citizens. I am truly convinced that in particular this Environmental Protection Act will show and prove that this Croatian government is determined to advocate environmental protection and sustainable development as a priority in protecting national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88609	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. He's gone. Then, Mr. Representative Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88610	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I have not been able to present everything I wanted about this Environmental Protection Act, so allow me to present my opinion briefly. I wanted to give a brief look at the environmental protection instruments, i.e. the provisions of Article 47 to 114, and to point out that this Law and its application will act on the application of the Law on Spatial Planning, because the procedures to be followed by the provisions of this Act are directly related to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and are, in fact, a preliminary procedure, because they are also limited to the application of certain provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning. This primarily refers to the strategic assessment of the impact of plans and programmes and the relevant strategic document on the environment. In fact, by harmonising the provisions of both laws with the regulation of the European Union, we must bring these provisions into force in one law and in another, and in fact both laws must in some way be brought into line. In fact, what does this provision apply to? This provision refers to the development of spatial plans for both county and urban spatial plans for which this strategic assessment should not have worked until now, but also to the strategic assessment of strategic facilities, large infrastructure facilities, large industrial facilities. So, one measure and one procedure that we will have to carry out before we can determine there the united conditions for either the construction of an individual industrial facility is either a large infrastructure facility. That's one thing. Secondly, what should be pointed out in my court in particular that in the implementation of this Act, the ministry will now have the right to control technological procedures in large economic legal proceedings whether and every 5 years economic operators point out that they are technologically lagging behind, invite them to take appropriate measures to improve their impact and their pressure on the environment. This is a very important issue, and with the law giving the ministry the right to establish, in the case of the issue of a building permit, the new conditions, the conditions of regulation of space and the protection of the environment, which did not exist in the previous decisions of these laws. In my opinion, this is a major step forward, because in practice our inspections and, of course, all the competent institutions will be able to control what is really happening in life. I have already noted about cross-border pollution, and even here this Law provides that this cross-border impact of the planning documents on the environment, I consider it a truly quality solution because I can confirm and specify even a series of facts about which Agent Roksandić here spoke about where our waterways are being polluted from our neighbouring countries and where most of our people are unaware of what is in these waterways, and in particular that we have polluted air coming in and is jeopardising our large forest complexes in the Gorski Kotar. And in the end, if you would allow me to just point out certain solutions in the Law, which is Article 107 in which paragraph 2 is to be added to the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of the River Danube Basin and the State Water Protection Plan. So, Article 107. In Article 118(2), I propose that the applicant reconsider the provisions of point 5. whether the environmental information system should contain data on natural goods and the use of natural resources, given that these data are guided by other state institutions and public institutions such as Croatian forests, water, Ministry of Nature etc. So I think that this should only come down to those spaces that are defined by spatial plans as specific areas. In the light of the provisions of Article 223 which relate to the postponement of Article 34(2) and Article 71(3), it would be good to explain in detail in the final proposal why those two provisions are to be applied, why they will apply later. In the light of the specific provisions, it is necessary to amend the reasons set out in Article 39, as that explanation is Article 38 and to explain the detailed content of the provision of Article 39 relating to sustainable development and environmental protection documents. Mr. Vice-President, once again, I point out that this is a comprehensive law, a very high-quality concept, regardless of what we are here, in our observations we have offered possible repairs of expressive or other solutions, and that it will enable the achievement of the goals that we have outlined in the protection of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88611	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the IDS club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, additionally on behalf of the club, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, maybe just finalized on some technical stuff that might stick in the eyes that could be fixed until the second reading. Somehow, I can't help but think that even in this segment it wants to be centralized. There is no democratic process to elect members of the Environmental Protection Council, again the government has appointed, and it is going so far that the minister's check must determine compensation for members of the council. I think it's already too much and that the minister has better things to do than set compensations for the members of the Environmental Protection Council and the state development. Therefore, in this process of law-making, we will also give amendments where we will propose that the Council gathers representatives of both government and civil society from science, from the economy, local and regional authorities and other stakeholders and social groups in order to achieve broad public participation, in the creation of development plans and policies with a view to ensuring that national action plans have equal social, cultural, economic, environmental and other dimensions of sustainable development. So, we advocate that it be a democratic process to elect members of the council, not to appoint members of that council. We also suggest that the Council also has its own committee, i.e. the Management Board of Environmental Protection and State Development Councils. I think it is much more effective because this would be the professional and co-ordination body of the Government for the establishment and permanent functioning of the institutional framework for the sustainable development of Croatia. For the chapter in which the assessment of the situation in the introductory part of this law highlights that it also includes the principles of sustainable development from Rio de Janeiro. From Rio to this day, many member states of the United Nations have moved away in their process of applying the principle of sustainable development. Many of these countries have long had their national advice on sustainable development and there are experiences and recommendations on how these sustainable development tips should be established and what they should do. The National Council for Sustainable Development, which would consist of nine members appointed by the Government as set out in the original proposal, is contrary to the intensities of Rio, including Articles 12 and 14 of this same law. The nine-member council is largely composed of state professionals who primarily correspond to the Government and cannot enter into the national sustainable development process necessary diversity in all disciplines, different approaches and views on sustainability. Of course, the big thing is that there are different stakeholders and social groups. Moreover, the process of sustainable development, which itself is a broad democratic process, would be harmful if it initially relied on the views and opinions of only nine professionals, regardless of their expertise and well-meaning. Such a start could reduce the interest and expectations of the public for a longer period of time from the process of sustainable development, of course, at least the time that suits us. And maybe something else about the strategy. I think it should be more based on the co-operation of regional and local self-government and state authorities as well. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88613	Thank you very much. And in the name of the promoter, is that right, Mr. Professor Nikola Ruzhinski? Here's the secretary of state!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88614	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would first of all like to thank you specifically for your support and for your extremely fruitful discussion, discussion, suggestions and, as well as the remarks you made, referred to this Environmental Protection Act. It is an extremely significant law, and I am particularly pleased that you have fully recognized and supported us and pointed out that we have gone the right way by adopting one of these roof laws, a law that includes everything that is extremely important at this time. You clearly have your suggestions and remarks that we will certainly respect. I wouldn't be going through certain articles and comments right now, there's a lot of them. I also have to tell you that this bill of ours has been on the web for a long time. the pages of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that this law is presented specifically to the Association of Professionals who deal with nature protection and environmental protection, that this law is presented to individual interested associations on the other hand, that several round tables are now being held, a workshop related to the Environmental Protection Act, that this law is very much present in the public. So I have to say that I am particularly surprised by the remarks that say that this was passed as bureaucratic law, that the procedure of the public was not respected. This law has in its part the largest part, in general what can be in the law, in one particular part of public relations. Clearly, we can respect certain remarks and suggestions such as Mr. Ledinski, the esteemed representative who said that he was not pleased that the request for information could be rejected in Article 127. However, if this article is specifically read in 127, it will be seen that these are the reasons why it is rejected, it may reject information, or if it is not available with information or if the request is not submitted in a way that can be identified and a number of other things that really prevent us from answering certain questions that are being asked. We still have a whole series of questions today when we can't answer. Therefore, these are objective circumstances. So it can't be that, all rights can't be unlimited. The proposals of the associations that have been shown here through certain club representatives and their desire to extend the debate. The debate was opened in this House between the two readings, so the public debate takes all the time during the entire procedure in this House. Therefore, we will gladly receive all the remarks that come to the conclusion of the debate in the House, until the final draft of the law is passed. Therefore, we are also open by putting on websites, by communicating with associations, clearly giving out all these suggestions. I must refer to the presentation of certain certain distinguished representatives. I would like to say something about the discussion of the distinguished representative Ivica Pancic who said that we have long waited for this law and why it has not yet been finished. We haven't waited long for this law. The 1994 law was hardly one of the first modern laws. This law has been passed by the acquisition of circumstances, as I said at the beginning of the development of awareness towards the environment, the need to coordinate different activities, the need to introduce new things, the need to approach the European Union. So he didn't wait long. The notion that they are professional associations, that they are against this law, that they do not accept this law. And also, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I cannot accept it because I just said that the first presentation of this law was right in front of a professional association that includes all of these, all of the people relevant for the professional protection of the environment. Clearly, we have also received comments from some even a few NGOs that say they disagree with the approach, which also speak of the need to work especially when it comes to waste, that we should work in another way. And here I might also touch two proposals that were one in front of the Regional Party Representatives Club of Mr. Pavlic or the distinguished representative of Alenka Chicin-Shain when it comes to the waste management system itself, with the management of waste with zero delays. So these are proposals that speak and have appeared in several of those very dissatisfied associations. So, the zero-waste concept. There is also an example of a city called Krk or the island of Krk, but it is just about Krk, where this particular model is made. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I came to this post as a professor at the university, as a professor of environmental protection I participated in the design of this project, my assistants worked and ran this project. Later when I came here, I saw that a project of one of the most modern dumps in Krk was funded. I have data on how much of the waste has been reduced that went to the dump. So 25% of the reduced amount of waste results in our gradual separation, with the primary extraction of packaging waste that happened throughout Croatia and in the first year there was a decrease of 8% now 12%. So it's far from zero waste, the concept of zero waste. I will, and here I call upon all those who deal with the problem of waste management to come to the ministry, let them say when they will and will, and let them bring me this concept and we will accept it immediately if I do it. Since I know who's proposing it, since I know who's behind it, I'm asking you as people who want to actively engage and I see that you want to actively engage to be critical of certain proposals. And therefore, Your Honor, Mr. Pancic, I welcome your efforts to make the SDP accept and propose waste management centres as you have said, and I fully agree with that, it is entirely with our strategy and with the waste management plan. So this zero-waste concept doesn't apply to your discussion to make it absolutely clear. I just wanted to say that all these things that apply to concepts, certain concepts about waste are done in this way the best things that are done today, what the waist knows. I will not now enter here into technical discussions about how much a burner or thermal waste treatment, or mechanical, biological treatment affects the environment but in any case it is not possible that this government will support any waste treatment technology that will have a negative impact on the environment, it is about the best available technologies as we have told these other parts. Dear Representative Ledinsky has expressed concern that the roof law, that there will be a disagreement with sectoral laws on what I must convince you that we have taken care of it. As far as light pollution is concerned, I'm back with the esteemed representative of Ledinsky. This light pollution is also recognized in this law. Thus, it really needs to be worked and developed because it is one of the contaminants that are more than significant. Clearly, limited possibilities are, clearly, that we cannot lead to a ban on lighting now but that in light pollution there can be done a lot, that much can be done in this and in protecting the climate by reducing energy dependence on it, there is indeed a lot to be done. And let me now also refer to the presentation of the distinguished representative Rosic, who has expressed several things that are related to the law. One of these things is his suspicions that we are this law, that we are protecting national interests and that it is only about declarative protection and that it is proof that construction is contained in this ministry. So, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here is the esteemed representative Širac very well highlighted the link between the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which will be on the agenda of this Parliament tomorrow, where this very link stands out, where the spatial planning of one of the most significant, one of the strong tools of environmental protection is, and therefore, I think the whole part that is related to the construction of the Ministry or the structure of the Ministry where both spatial planning and construction is related to the protection of the environment that is one happy environment because here even a few laws are guided in this direction. Even further, I think that the details of nature's position as an environmental component, therefore, otherwise the observations that nature or water are in another, other ministries, other jurisdictions, are doing exactly this law, are thus designed to bring all environmental components so that both water and air and soil and nature together into one whole. And your proposal of distinguished MPs Chuhil related to the Land Protection Act we have recognized the importance of the soil for some time but there is one fundamental problem that is related to the soil. What is related to international laws and conventions relating to the United Nations is mainly about the "desertification" of the problem of "desertification" where we are members of these all working groups, and here in the part of Europe and in our parts to say so in our country when it comes to soil, then in principle we are always talking about agriculture. It is clear that this part is also related to agriculture, related to the pollution of excessive fertilisers, is recognised but in another special law, it is the Water Act. And that part that is the Water Act that will now take over the fully indicative directive in water and the nitrate directive is exactly going in this direction to protect the soil of protection and groundwater that we are rich today but which, which we will not be rich very quickly if we are irresponsiblely referring to it. At European level, the European Union is preparing a directive on soil and we are involved in this preparation and we assume that if this directive is adopted within the next year, we will transpose that directive into a special law. Otherwise there is ours, one advice for the ground that works on this bill, but these are things that are extremely complex and one such law must be very, very well done. The esteemed representative of Kosisa Chicin-Shain also mentioned the management of the waste I referred to, however, and several MPs again were linked to the role of associations in the system and the system of study making, evaluation of studies, environmental impact and objectivity of these studies. I'd like to say, let's say this law one thing is that it's intended to adopt a new rule on impact assessment. Now we are not talking about a strategic assessment but an environmental impact assessment for individual procedures, and another thing that may be extremely important in this law that is not so recognized is the particular responsibility of people who will work on environmental protection jobs. So professional responsibility. Professional responsibility that can lead to people who do business and live from it being able to lose their license if they do not objectively display what is happening. Whether conflict of interest or not is a conflict of interest when the contracting authority, the holder of the procedure, so the investor ordered a study, an environmental impact assessment. It's part of his file. He must, according to all of his knowledge, designs and technologies, develop an environment-protection laboratory because, study but it's not an assessment. This is his, his proposal, his assessment and afterwards comes professionally, objectively, independent body involving experts, not only the clerks to say so but mostly experts. Those who assess whether this study was done. So one separation from the system for the Ministry to do studies, order and if the investor pays, I'm afraid it wouldn't give a good solution. We're ready for these conversations and dialogues, but right now in studies, strategic studies we're going to devote, now we're paying high attention. We'll make a dedication in the future. During the "screening" assessment of Europe, the European Commission, which looked and analysed how we are doing, has only had an observation that we are not fully in line with the directive. It refers to the length of the duration of public insights. We'll change that part too. So I believe we'll do it that way. As regards the authorisation of other engineers clearly if this is not a building permit and these things and other engineers will also be authorised as supervisory particularly in those parts that are related to, with the very united conditions of environmental protection where it will require quite a number of special specialists in special technologies that are linked. One proposal that is related to, the distinguished representative, Roksandic, said that for three years for unification, it is for the achievement of united environmental protection conditions among these companies that are bonds and so on. The IPPS directive I must tell you that according to our one analysis, one project that was done almost a year ago was detected by approximately 150 companies that are the bonds of this, this IPPS. The assessment of the investments needed for this is somewhere between 800 million and billions of euros. So it's really about procedures that are serious. We will also look for certain transitional periods in this entire system, but regardless of whether they will meet all the conditions immediately at the beginning, whether they will have their best available technologies I think that, that it is difficult to expect such a level of reconstruction in today's situation, in the fight for the market, but in any case we are just trying to fix the situation in the environment not only maintain it. So that's what I'm suggesting, I think it was a respected representative of Cain, and I'm not sure we're calling the law not on environmental protection, but on environmental sustainability. We try to improve, you see this from this report that we are in certain parts and have managed to improve it. So I wouldn't go any further into all this part that's related to the Environmental Protection Act. We will try, not to read and study, but we will try to accept all of your suggestions regarding this law. So much for the Environmental Protection Act. Mr. Vice President, I'd like to continue something just on the report, a short piece. So the environmental status report. If we look at the approach and the discussion today and the debate in this House, then what this report wanted to achieve regardless of what our legal obligation is, I think it's fulfilled to a very large extent. This report is clear that it does not hide anything like the distinguished representative Rosic wanted to, said that even if we are not hiding anything, it was clear that we were not hiding anything, that the debate about the state of the environment was inciting. I'm sorry there's been some misunderstanding. This environmental status report refers to the period '97, 2005 with certain indicators reaching far, far away, so that this observation of concreteisation, about the construction of the coast from some 150 to 870 kilometers refers to the period from 1960 to 2005. So it's a relatively long period, it's 15% of the area. However, all of these, all of these remarks you've made to us by a distinguished representative of Shirac, representative of Stengl, you sit together. You've had fundamental remarks that we'll take into account in the report. So we accept those mistakes we will correct. So, what's going on, let's not bother you with that. What you need to say is we'll do it. Your proposal to "green actions" to extend the deadline debate I already said, debate and the law and the report will I think the report is over. Dear Representative Cain said that only a sign of a reduction in the burden of sulphur dioxide and trioxide suggests a good situation in environmental protection, but this is due to the termination of work, loss of jobs of 500 000 jobs. I wouldn't be going into the discussion about why and how there's been a loss of this huge significant job loss. It's an unemployment situation. It's really a special problem. However, I only have to say one technical correction if you look at a more detailed report then you can see that the reduction in sulphur dioxide content is due to two basic things. One is better fuel quality, so diesel fuel and lube used especially by our regulation not to mention when we talk about Sisak should not use more than one percent, but in transport, traffic is one of the extremely significant segments where there has been a significant reduction in the content of SO2 and lead and this is the result, precisely due to the improvement of fuel despite the increase in traffic. However, not all indicators are so good. Many indicators are better and many indicators show that the procedures and what is done in Croatia have led to improved air quality. I can't talk about the climate-hazard situation, because they're not those indicators. It's about another indicator. So it's about CO2. But as far as improving air quality is concerned, I'm sure we can say that. The town of Sisak itself is in a special situation. I wouldn't really say what you said about a black town, because if we look a little deeper into the air quality situation in other cities, you'll see that it's not always a bright situation. We are doing a special review that will probably be completed only in the course of the next year, where the exact maps of pollution will be given in Croatia. However, it is an extremely complex task and we cannot do it for now, but in the report you can see the quality of air in certain cities. An interesting thing happened in Sisak. In addition to being clear as it is already feeling in certain moments now, therefore not entirely but an individual and intense breakthrough when there is some malfunction in the H2S refinery. It happened that in 2005 we released a line measurement, so every hour you can see the quality of the air around the refinery in Sisak and in several places. Otherwise, we had a one-year report. When the report came on it was a year old, then they said if you see it last year it was that air. Today you can come to our ministry's website, you can come to the agency's website and you can read what the situation in Sisak is like right now. Therefore, this led to one reaction which, ultimately, I will believe will result in positive shifts in quality. The government's conclusion is extremely serious and sharp towards the Sisak oil refinery. They're working, reconstruction programs are being built. It is done, this "claus procedure" is being built to reduce sulphur concentration. Thus, consciousness led to the process being launched. No one can behave any way they want. The fact is that the situation in Sisak, a situation in Karlovac that is not directly related to environmental protection, but in more unconscious business and unconscious results or procedures led to that with all of our things that we have done, led to the fact that the awareness of the state of the environment in Croatia has shifted significantly, that people are looking much more seriously at the state of the environment. And what I might still point out, Mr. Vice President, is your example that you mentioned about Neretva, about the rise and the drowsiness, about the systems that are happening or other things that are related to Sisak, things that are from this report may not be highlighted with red letters but are really moving and pointing to certain problems. Bosnia and Herzegovina is unfortunately not a member of the SPO Convention and we have launched talks with bilateral talks on power plants, upper horizons, etc. I would not now enter the expert assessment of whether the melioration or the construction of certain dams that reduce yields in the lower flow as it happens on the Drava River where it is also reduced, lowers the level of groundwater because the transport of substances is blocked at a certain place and then then occurs at the erosion of the bottom of the river, and then lowers the whole level. But the amount of water that's turned in the upper course of the dam that's being done, etc. It led to us being in intensive negotiations. It's not the ministry where I work, it's the Ministry of Agriculture and the Water Administration that they're working on, and they've come to an understanding of all of these talks from the Bosnian-Herzegovina side. But we're talking to Slovenia and Hungary, too. It's all going under the SCI Convention. I say, the small one is the only handicap in being not Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a member of the signatories and the Convention on International Cross-border Cooperation when it comes to environmental protection. However, the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative and other initiatives in the region are helping in this dialogue and we have one answer. So, once again, I thank you for your remarks. I'm glad this report was received. I must point out once again that since 2004, five years ago, there have been significant shifts in certain environmental and pressure components especially in waste, especially in what we said we were going to resuscitate a series of dumps over 220 dumps is in recovery. Exclusion, primary waste extraction started, we started with packaging waste, old tires, batteries, these are all rules, batteries, old oil, cars that have run out of time. Now there's still electronic, electronic waste. Therefore, the concept of waste disposal is based on our strategy, according to our plan on primary separation, maximum recycling and construction of waste management centres. Of course that's not visible from this report. Because this report is, it refers to the period that was before we started those programs. Here he is, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the council, I'd like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88615	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88616	It's the same for precision so there wouldn't be any misunderstandings Mr. Secretary of State said that I said that professional associations don't accept laws. My debate went in the direction that certain associations, namely certain experts, have shown certain, certain objections to the law that correspond with the views of us in the SDP. And we think that what's inaccurate in the law or not well needs to be fixed until the second reading. And my view clearly is not so much a problem in the law, this or any other, but in its application, realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88617	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on environmental protection, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 680. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on environmental protection is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 83 votes, this conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88732	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My report is actually a shortened summary, so a really short summary of the book "Letopis 110" that you all hope to receive. It thus makes it easier for me and in some ways gives me the right to shorten the summary you received with the book. Just a few words about the Academy meetings. In the past year, 2006. The academy held two regular congregations, two election congregations, and four formal sessions. A report on the entire work of the Academy and the final account of the Academy for 2005 was adopted at the regular assembly in April. While programme plans were adopted at the December regular assembly, and the 2007 Academy's financial plan. New members of the Croatian Academy, 12 regular members, 9 correspondence members and 9, 20 co-workers were elected at the Election Assembly held on 18 May 2006 after the proceedings were conducted in the classes and the Bureau of the Academy. The election assembly held on 23 November 2006 selected the Croatian Academy Presidency for the term of office from 1 January this year until 31 December 2009. The first Ceremony of the Academy was held on 28 April 2006 on the occasion of the Academy's day. On that occasion, ten scientists and artists were awarded the "Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for 2005".". The second Annual Session of the Academy was held on 8 June 2006 and members of the Croatian Academy were appointed at that session. The third Ceremony of the Academy was held on 4 October 2006 and marked the 150th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla, an honorary member of the Croatian Academy. And the fourth ceremony was held on 11 October 2006 on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Vladimir Prelog, winner of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry and honorary member of our Academy. A number of annual election congregations of the Academy and the scientific councils were held in addition to the above - mentioned assembly and formal sessions. During 2006, Croatia also organized 29 scientific gatherings, 26 lectures, 2 public discussions, 12 book presentations, 32 exhibitions and 6 commercials, memorials for the deceased members. Allow a few words about the work of the Academy Presidency. The academy's presidency held nine regular sessions over the past year. At the meetings, members of the Bureau discussed and reached conclusions from their jurisdiction. Special attention was paid to preparing for the congregations and the formal sessions on the occasion of the Croatian Academy's day. This is about preparing for the Electoral Assembly to elect new members of the Academy. I would like to remind you that for the new members of our Academy, a total of 79 candidates have been formed, and for 15 regular members, 33 are proposed. For 24 members and co-workers, 32 and 9 of the post members of the proposed 14 candidates were proposed. In the context of the debate on the National Election Assembly of the Croatian Academy, the Bureau decided to respond individually to certain articles and comments which, in an unambiguous, unfounded and trendy way, commented on the results of the election for the new Academy members and, in this connection, accepted a statement on the election of new members addressed to the media. That statement was hardly recorded in our media. The Bureau established a proposal for a Regulation on the proposal and selection of members of the Croatian Academy Presidency and a Regulation on the prizes of members and members of the Croatian Academy Presidency. Also a proposal for the financial plan of the Croatian Academy for 2007. An important anniversary, patronage, the organisation of numerous scientific gatherings, the selection of scientific research professions of the Academy was also discussed. During last year, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Foundation successfully carried out tasks to encourage scientific research and art work in the Republic of Croatia, which were established by the Institute of Law. Unlike in 2005, when the Foundation joined several specific 4 founders in the past 2006 there was only one such case. Our sponsors are Privredna banka Zagreb with a total of 5.2 million kuna and at the end of the year established, the assets of the foundation amounted to 3 million 839 thousand 824 thousand euros, and the balance on the gyro budget was 156 thousand 189 kuna and on foreign exchange accounts and 25 thousand euros and another 28 and some thousands dollars. Members and founder of the foundation are Croatian Parliament, town of Rab, Zagreb Fair, School Book, "Piva", Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka, family of Torbar, dr. Greta and Dr. Fedja Verbić, INA oil industry, the city of Zagreb and academician Dragutin Tadjanović. After the public tender, the Management Board of the Foundation decided to allocate the funds of one million kuna to a total of 76 projects proposed by organisations and individuals. The work of the Academy of International Cooperation. The international co-operation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was intensified compared to last year, so last year, resulting in an increase in the scope and quality of activities of representatives of the Croatian Academy in international associations where it is an active member. Due to the growing scope of cooperation with the European Science Foundation, Croatia has achieved cooperation with the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia which finance, financial support for the accession of Croatian scientists to the ESF projects, the Croatian Academy has maintained its role as coordinator of projects and programmes of the foundation. The Croatian Academy has agreements or bilateral agreements in scientific cooperation with the Academys, I would not list, in total, what we have active connections, so they are also preparing for the completion of the overall 24 World Academy of Europe, Asia and America. Last year, she was a very live inter-academic shop of experts because numerous representatives of other academics, presidents of republics and governments, ambassadors, ministers and prominent persons of scientific, cultural and political life visited the Academy. A few words about the restoration and arrangement of the Academy's facilities. The capital building of the Academy of Primary Meaning and the highest volume is the construction of a new Academy of Library, consisting of adaptation, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the bole’s chemical institute building at Strossmayer Square 14. The project of building the Academy of Library is funded from the funding of the state budget and, as such, it is conditioned by the move of the Faculty of Natural Sciences which you can read in the book was also subject to financial restrictions due to budget rebalancing. How each day the extension of the construction deadline brings a significant increase in costs is considered necessary to provide additional funds of 8 million kuna from this year's budget for the completion of the building in 2007. In this way, we would remain within the framework of so far-planned resources, while otherwise it would be necessary to provide more resources to complete the building. So far planned funds do not provide for the equipment of the library as foreseen as the final stage of realization. Given the long-term duration of the project, it will be necessary to secure from the state budget in the coming years. A few words about the work of the Academy's class and other units. The activities of the Academy take place in 9 classes, 17 Academy units and 15 scientific councils. The Academy has a total of 8 such units in Zagreb, and the other 10 units are located outside Zagreb, two units based in Dubrovnik, one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci and Trsteno. Their scientific and publishing activity was appropriate for the detailed documentation in the summer paper and for future good results. The Academy of Science and Research units during 2006 worked on 46 scientific and collaboration projects. It's about what happened. parent projects, therefore, of projects whose research is mainly carried out in the Academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or are a regular member of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy institutions and institutes. A total of 308 participants worked on the projects, the total annual funding for 47 scientific projects delivered from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Academy last year amounted to 2 million 221 thousand 479 kuna. In addition to these projects in the Academy, a number of other scientific and artistic tasks were realized during 2006, which individual classes and their committees, and in particular scientific councils and museum-gallery units set as the goal of their scientific and artistic activities over a further period of time. There are other forms of scientific work in the Academy, so last year 15 scientific councils worked within the Academy, and there is also one international committee, other than the Committee on International Life and Customs, and the Croatian Crystalographic Community. In these councils and bodies work not only members of the Academy, but scientists and experts outside the Academy and abroad. Let me just mention the Oil Council has about 200 members. During 2006, scientific councils organized several scientific meetings and round tables, a lecture of annual congregations. All this shows that the work of especially some councils was appropriate and in the summer paper is detailed. As an example, the youngest Academy of Science for the State Administration, Justice and Rule of Law, which held three round tables during the previous year on the fundamental issues of our judicial system in which three political conditions for access to the European Union have been laid in the Republic of Croatia, and to address the situation in the judiciary and the state of administration, and to address corruption and organised crime on a socially tolerated basis. After the roundtables were held, four books containing the authorized presentations of all participants were published. Just let me tell you about the publishing activity that over the last year 86 books and notebooks were published, magazines in your own storybook, or in the publishing industry. A total of 18 thousand printed pages were printed, and a total of 58 thousand copies were printed. The CD exhibition 4 of Croatian graphics and various invitations, posters, etc. was published from non-book material. Among the printed titles are all areas of work of the Croatian Academy. In addition to 86 academic titles, there are 23 publications published by support of the Academy Foundation. During last year, a major step in efforts to open up the academy to a wide range of media activities and thus to the general public. In this sense, intensive contacts with the media are intense, but we are still not satisfied with the way some media monitor the work of the Croatian Academy. At the end of last year we agreed to redesign and rebuild the Croatian Academy portal and this job is now near the end. During 2006, an exhibition of Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was started through photographs, with the aim of presenting it to the Croatian public as a working academy and the values it promotes. In mid-March this year, the exhibition is open to the knowledge and reaction of the public is well received. A few words on the main financial report for last year and the final account. In the 2006 Academy's summer paper, there was a detailed report on the financial operations of the Academy for the past year. The total funds held by the academy last year amounted to 80 million 336 thousand 456 kuna. The amount is mostly covered by the State budget 68%, then by other sources of funding from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture of Zagreb, the County, cities and other legal and physical persons 27.5% and the funds achieved by the Academy's own activity 4.5%. The final accounts show that in 2006 the Academy spent an amount of 82 million 878 thousand 820 kuna for its entire business and thus achieved a lack of revenue over expenditure of 2 million 542 thousand 363 kuna. This deficit stems from the fact that part of the costs is covered by the rest of the income from previous years. Namely, on 1 June 2006, the Academy’s account in the Croatian Post Bank was closed, and the remaining funds from both the current and previous years amounting to 7.3 million kuna were transferred to the State Treasury. From that moment on, all obligations of the Academy towards suppliers and service providers began to be followed by the State Treasury. A relatively large increase in the Academy's revenues in 2006 came solely for the reason that a part of the field archaeological research project was implemented through the Academy on 5C road corridor, for which the Ministry of Culture provided a sum of 10.3 million kuna. Thank you, gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88733	Thank you very much, very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Academy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Science Committee, Mr. Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88734	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academyman, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006 at its 34th session on 18 May 2007. A year. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant for the report. Participants of the debate pointed to the surrounding fact that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art's assessment of the work was facilitated by the fact that all representatives of the Croatian Assembly were provided except for the usual summary and books "110 summers" of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts with a very comprehensive analytical review of the activities of academics and scientific staff employed in the HAZ as well as all organisational forms through which activities within the HAZ were carried out and towards the Croatian and wider environment. In light of the circumstances mentioned last year's public echoes of the election of new academics, which is the subject of this year's report, the participants of the debate pointed out that the full report that has been brought by the comprehensive exhaustive book "110 summers" also allows for a more objective judgment on the part of the life of the HAZ. In view of the diversity, the scientific and culture of the weight of the programme that has been carried out or is under way, the public media has been monitored inappropriately and insufficiently only from time to time and in the service of often superficial cheap sensations. Working on HAZ as the first and most important Croatian scientific institution requires far more especially if we seek Croatia as a knowledge society. The debate also focused on budgetary financing issues including the occurrence of insufficient withdrawal and appropriations from the Croatian budget, which are otherwise as the final part of the report shows, in the last few years reduced and in nominal terms. The Committee assesses that, for example, it is harmful to rebalancing decisions, which in general does not question the resources in favour of education, science and culture at the same time reducing the funds of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, since these are amounts insignificant in terms of the state budget, but very important for the implementation of the HAZ programme, including clearly and very important international cooperation programmes. The Committee members in particular stress the need to approve special additional appropriations this year in order to bring the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts libraries into office by the end of next year, buildings of the so far chemical institute near the HAZ headquarters. Participants of the debate found that the HAZ authorities and programmes show special sensitivity to such important current issues as the level of activity of the state administration, the judiciary and at all the issues of the rule of law and the specific issue of corruption in state and public services, the problem of oil and other energy products, and some of the important issues of the Croatian language situation. So with the rest of the HAZ, she sent the Croatian Assembly a proposal on how to normatively regulate the use of Croatian language in higher education, which I particularly underline. The opinion is also expressed that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts should open up opportunities for their own membership and their own departments for such important areas as are not covered so far, such as film and theatre. After the debate was held, the following conclusion was reached unanimously: The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88735	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88736	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Academy, colleagues and colleagues! A report from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts on the activities in 2006 was accompanied with a commendation with the 2006 summer paper, a very extensive 782 pages in total. As a result, remarks from previous years from fellow MPs who said that the reports were gross and that because of the brief summary of the Academy's report did not work. And in previous years we've had... The reports, but they weren't in the form of a book, but we had them on the pages of the Academy, or we had them on the web, or we saw them in our rooms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This time every MP gets it, and it deserves all the credit. From the yearbook and this summary presented here by Mr. Academyman Cvetnić, we see that in 2006, the year of intensive activities of the Academy, of which I will not single out just some of which I consider to be the most important. Among other things, praise should be given to the Academy for its involvement in the marking of two significant anniversarys. It was the 150th anniversary of the birth of Nikola Tesla and the Academy was one of the bearers of the organization of the year, named the year Nikola Tesla, who is also an honorary member of the Croatian Academy. Another significant anniversary is the 100th anniversary of the birth of academics Vladimir Prelog, who, even 20 years earlier, became an honorary member of our Academy, became an honorary member in 1954 and won the Nobel Prize in 1975. Of course, he later became an honorary member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In addition to these significant anniversary Croatian Academy organized in that year an impressive number of different events. I quote: "29 scientific gatherings, 26 thematic lectures, 12 book presentations, 32 exhibitions, 2 public debates etc." In other words, every other working day, the Academy had one big event. It's really very intense, impressive activity. From the work of the presidency, I would like to point out again the strategic project spoken of by Mr. Academyman Cvetnić, which is the conversion of the building of the current chemical laboratory, the building designed by the famous Herman Bole, and which is indeed fitting for its future purpose, which is the library of the Academy. The Academy Presidency, as we can see from the annual report, has been dealing with a number of obstacles and problems in opening up the library, which are mostly administrative and technical building problems. But what's most important is this big project has fallen into financial difficulties. It takes about 8 million kunas to complete it, and I think that this opportunity and this place should support the government to really help this project and that it should be completed in time or at least not with great delay. What Mr. Selem and Mr. Academyman Cvetnić pointed out, in 2006, is the year of a small misunderstanding between the Academy and the media. Namely, part of the Croatian media does not follow the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts at all, or if it follows it, it is mostly negatively intonated news. Why don't I know it that way? Because it is an institution that is of top importance for the development of Croatian science, for the development of Croatian art but also a roof institution for the protection of Croatian national interests, so it may be precisely why some media only accompany it when it is necessary to criticise or to distort a fact. So I quote from the reports that after the elections for members of the Academy, after the election assembly, some media have written comments that are unobstructive, unfounded and tended in a tenor way commenting on the results of the election for the new Academy members, which is absolutely wrong because the Academy Presidency accepted and issued a statement on the election of new members and directed all the media. And over 90% of the media did not publish that statement after a lot of criticism addressed to the Academy at all, which means it also confirms that these articles and these news were extremely trendy and deliberately negative. HAZU certainly needs to improve its relationship with the media, and it did so just in 2006, as it introduced several new improvements in media communication. Among other things, we see in the summer paper for better public perception, hired a professional company to improve communication, we haven't seen an echo in the media, which we still believe isn't the Academy's fault. In 2006, as we read in the yearbook, the Academy sent 65 calls to the media for various events, she sent them 25 different reports of events at the Academy. So, for her part, she really contributed to improving that communication, but unfortunately that's all that's left in one direction. What we should call in that misunderstanding under quotes, between some media... , the media not everyone and the Academy points out is unfortunately, and the involvement of politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some politicians whose parents had not been elected wanted to blame the Academy, some fellow MPs whose wishes had not been met negatively debated for the speaker. And I think our message should be, politicians away from the Academy. What is impressive in the action of the Academy in 2006 is their focus on practical problems, the problems that are quieter at the moment for the Croatian state. So, apart from theoretical, scientific research, other than artistic work, they've been directed and I think it's a new quality in the debate and scientific analysis of the social events that are most important to us at this point. So I'd skip a whole series of activities and cite some of those events that I think are just drawing out that academy orientation. The Institute for Scientific Art in Split has published a European Constitution with a comment, a very useful article at the moment, very critical, very scientific and very professional that can show the skeptics of European integration that they are in the wrong and exaggerated enthusiasts of these integrations to show where the dangers lie. What is a class for philology science has done is a proposal for a text in Croatian which has been published on the website. I am also underlining the beautiful literary Croatian language of this summer's book, so it's about a web site, not a website or a website. It is about capacities, it is about possibilities and not using non-Croatian very ugly word resources, etc., so it is necessary to learn from the language of the Academy and to replace such ugly expressions with beautiful Croatian expressions as is done here. What I would also like to praise is that the social science class has launched a project "National State between globalisation, Europeanisation and regionalisation". It is a project that is actually a taste of the moment we live in, preserving national identity and national values in globalisation, regionalisation and europeanization, so three segments that we enter with fear of losing what is quality. And this is exactly the kind of project that lies in the main task of the social science class, which is for every praise. The same class of social sciences has also launched a project of a strategy for modern economic development, which is again the cornerstone of Croatia's development at the moment, and I think it will be a significant contribution to this debate. This shows the direction of the academy towards practical problems and round tables that have been carried out. I repeat, this is a round table very successful with a book and a lecture chamber on state administration, so one critical moment of today's state development, the problem of justice, the problem of corruption, oil, an important round table on border issues with neighbours. So, HAZO is involved in social events with its huge potential and contributes to the development of Croatian society and I am sorry for the fact that the Croatian media is silent. But so it doesn't turn out now that we're just praising the academy we have to give some criticism. My criticism is that the Committee on Historical Sciences is launching a project that is absolutely important and justified "Croatia in World War II" and has not yet launched the project "Croatia in the Homeland War". I think it would be time for the Academy and its members of the Committee on Historical Sciences from a scientific point of view to process the greatest tragedy of the newer Croatian history because that moment deserves it. And finally, as it always does, the report ends with financial problems, so now I'm giving criticism not to the academy but to all of us. And the criticism refers to the fact that the planned article for the academy and the achieved article for the academy each year is different, always less than planned. But when we look at the plan ourselves, then we see it shrinks from year to year. Two years ago, the plan was 69 million a year, 66 million a year ago and 64 million for this year, respectively. Therefore, every year we take a bite to the Academy's position which I don't think is good and probably should be negotiated more intensively by the Academy at the state budget stage and explain the usefulness of these projects for the entire Croatian society. Here, with these remarks, the HDZ club will absolutely support this report, support what the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has done, with expectations that it will naturally be more and more every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88737	Thank you very much. No other club checked in. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go. ... The lady's giving up the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is Mrs. Jagoda Maja-Martincevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88738	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academyman, colleagues and colleagues. I almost don't know what I could add to this report by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and fellow Hebrang, who said 90% of the problems covered, caught, described and qualified. I might look back on two narrow segments of this report, but before that, I might remind all of us once again what lies between these yellow covers. Well, symbolically speaking the mind of Croatia. One year of systematic and self-secure work, a work of which the public does not talk much, a work about which the media does not report except when we have heard this already today about the extreme situation, and this is the result of the small relationship between many scientists, artists, culturalists who really make a taste of what we would like to present to ourselves but also to the world as a Croatian culture, as Croatian art, as Croatian science. Among the many segments covered by this book and, of course, by a summary, I would just like to warn and remind myself of the activities of the Arboretum Rehabilitation Committee "Trsteno" because I think that this work, the work of this committee so far, or what it has drawn for itself as the next task is extremely important if we remember what happened in Tristeno at the time of the Homeland War, in which such an immeasurable wealth was lost, was devastated, and to what extent this board of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is concerned that all these segments would have been restored and relived in all these different segments. Not only are plants marked, not only have a successful technical examination of the hydrant network in the arboretum been carried out, but also a proposal for the application of a scientific project outside the category of natural sciences and with a cultural approach titled "A proposal for complex research of the HAZU arboretum in Trieste". I think it's precisely based on a study of the found state of the arboretum Tristeno with a floristic vegetation aspect and the aspect of the restoration of part of the architectural fund is one of the most important activities. What I would also mention and related to my narrow area, therefore, to my profession, is the work of the music and music class, which was organised in last year 2006 by a scientific gathering which unfortunately the Croatian public had almost nothing to learn about. I attended him because I wanted and had to, and I would only remind myself that it was a scientific event about three hundred Croatian music students, Boris Papandopool, Ivan Brkanović and Milo Cyprus, three composers with whom absolutely every country in Europe would be proud, and perhaps by means of these perhaps narrowly professional but not therefore negligible symposias that could be found and that, for example, today's music that we listen to today on the Zagreb Music Biennale, which allegedly is our cultural view in the world. He did, but he wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for the work of those three giants. We are also grateful to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which really cares not only about tradition but also about what develops from this tradition and what points us to the future. Perhaps on this occasion we should just underline a very, very wide-ranging activity, international cooperation between the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which has agreed or bilateral agreements on scientific cooperation with a number of academics, but it aims to expand this activity to many others, and only last year did our academy, for example, encourage cooperation with the Israeli Academy of Natural and Humanist Sciences, the Turkish Academy and the Belgian Royal Academy. Of course, other agreements and other types of international cooperation are in preparation, but this live inter-academic exchange of experts seems to me to be one of those good pledges for the future in which we will hope to act in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, this taste of Croatian mind being recognized in both the media and the public so that everything else is unfortunately not only between the cover, the yellow cover of this very precious publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88739	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Peter Selem's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I feel the need to supplement with a few words what I said as chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and in connection with the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the past year. I think it is already mentioned in these discussions, but I think we may not have pointed out enough that the Croatian Academy is clearly one of the fundamental institutions of Croatian culture, Croatian science, Croatian national identity. Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and the University, Matica Croatia are these institutes by which Croatia exists as one cultural nation and as a nation of science and a team of wonders and I can say really sometimes startled destructive actions and destructive accentes that occur when the work of the institution is commented. It is clear that the work of every institution is subject to criticism. That's not what it's about, there's no dispute. It is also true that, with regard to the election of members of the Academy, we can agree, not agree. Each of us has the right to believe that someone should be who is not chosen and, however, the degree and energy of destruction that occurred in these discussions seems to me to be very, very negative and to show that in our society there are persistent negative energies that question such institutions as HAZU and which, in my opinion, are absolutely uncontestable. What I must admit to wonder is that in these discussions several such negating and destructive voices came from the very academy, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. From the very members of that Academy. It's something I have to admit that I'm really, really surprised because I say discussing some problems is one thing and the relationship to the institution itself is another thing. As far as the activities of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are concerned, they are indeed very nice and summed up in this book, at the same time and very thoroughly presented. I would like to say two three words about one activity mentioned by Professor Hebrang, which is a question of language. I think that at the moment that the Croatian language is exposed to one permanent aggression and when the Croatian language is permanently collapsing, it actually collapses under the pressure of various elements that are its sides, it seems to me that there is a really great task of the academy. And it's very valuable and good that the academy has already stepped forward. It is nice and pleasant to read this report with this pure Croatian language but I think the degree of aggression in Croatian is so great that the Academy has a permanent and permanent task to which it must absolutely respond. Finally, one more issue of topical topics that the Academy is dealing with. All the topics that have already been presented are absolutely important and it is very important and important that the Academy takes them into consideration and consider them at the level at which the Academy can and should work. Only by the way would I mention what Professor Hebrang, Homeland War, the Croatian Institute of History has its own project "Domovinski rat" and it might be good for the Academy and the Croatian Institute for History in this very important and significant project to achieve and cooperate in some way. As far as the perspective of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is concerned, I think they're good. That the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts felt any time and I was very comfortable not to say surprised but was impressed by the fact that at the discussion in the Committee and the President of the Academy, he expressed great openness to the idea that among those areas covered by the Academy, some new artistic areas such as a film that was clearly not in that classical and standard art classification. In that sense, I think that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts will know and open up to the impulses of time, that they will know to respond to the challenges of time and that is indeed so and that is indeed true on that path shows both this report and this book, the yellow cover that we have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88741	Thank you very much. It is Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, academic Florist. Here are colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this day unfortunately all of us are less in the assembly and such an important debate really is about, I mean, the most important institution in Croatia. I don't think it's necessary because that's what my predecessors used to say, the highlighted weight of this book, not by mass, but by its significance and content. The 110 books of the Croatian Academy of the Year for 2006 already discuss the activities of 382 members of the Academy in all categories of membership. Certainly our Academy, Croatian Academy of Science and Art is the most important Croatian scientific institution, unfortunately, and despite its very significant scientific work, still less famous to the general public and to the general public, and all because of the media relationship not only in these cases that my predecessors mentioned. So, not in those cases where other thoughts or extreme situations happen eventually, but in general. However, the academy has also made significant moves there. She did not publish her activity only in the yearbooks. We don't just read about them in the media, we don't hear about them. They are also mentioned today and in 2006 by reports and works of the Academy published on the Internet pages, which is very important for the opening up to this wide public. All those who spoke before me pointed out the significant work of the academy. I think that we are all aware that 46 scientific projects in 2006 are very important, that the whole series of international cooperation she highlighted and I will underline it from fellow Martincevic with other academics, 24 Academy, that last year, as my colleague Hebrang Academy said, I would say a significant problem of today's society in Croatia, by organising a debate on judicial reform, on state administration reform, on the problem of corruption, the problem of oil energy, the problem of the borders of international co-operation, the problem of solving border problems in Croatia. All this shows is that the academy is no longer just closed, that the academy is opening up to all citizens and that the availability of what makes the academy for the benefit of our entire society. I will especially highlight what Professor Selem said, which is the work of the class for philology sciences, which in his plan and work programme for 2007 also submitted a proposal for the addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education by including a new article on the position of Croatian language in primary, secondary schools and higher schools. And finally, I think it is unnecessary to say how important it is for the development of our entire society just scientific work of our Academy of Science and Art.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88743	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mrs. Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88744	Fellow Members, don't you think that the debate on the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006 is intended to silence something that happened in 2006 when one of our greatest scientists, a scientist of the world's voice. Mr. Vice President, he said to one Krleža, praising socialism that stupidity and socialism remain nonsense. That's how it happens to us in free Croatia, you see! And to finish what I was about to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88745	I encourage you to complete the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88746	So I also encourage you to apply the Rules of Procedure and allow the speaker to speak freely in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88747	So it's possible for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88748	And that's better than me using just to help and get used to it. That's not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88749	Look, I've reacted to silence and urged you to speak, and I'll apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88750	That makes me happy!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88751	According to what I think is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88752	And not what you think, but as the statute, as the Rules of Procedure commands.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88753	Don't warn me! I know what my jurisdiction is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88754	It's good. Here's the thing. Dear Mr. Vice President, so I also addressed a colleague who was currently arguing that it seemed incomplete to discuss this report without mentioning the case in the last year that happened and which I think serves neither our country nor society as a whole, let alone the institution that we are talking about that did not receive Professor Radman in its ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88755	Thank you very much. Please! Please, there is an answer to the replica of Mrs Ivanka Roksandić and let everyone speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88756	I'd just like to answer to my colleague. My colleague, I'd like to answer you like this. Nobody shuts up or wants to shut up. When you read this year's paper and you get an insight into the entire selection process of academics, and he's from the site just a little bit to remember 71-78 then you'll see that the said gentleman got less votes than necessary. So no one, so no one said anything. All you have to do is read a full report on the work of our academy contained in the book is ten, and you'll know what's going on. And does anyone like how the procedure went or not, it's a matter of personal judgment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88757	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Ivan Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88758	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected academics, colleagues and colleagues. When I got into my hands this book "The 2006 Croatian Academy of Summers" then I opened page 2. And I saw that academic editor Slavko Cvetnić, son of the flat-rate Turopoly area, academic, and I'm also a Turopoljan, so I couldn't help but take part in this debate. So let me begin by expressing my satisfaction with the fact that today we are first allowed to discuss in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report on the basis of such a beautiful and comprehensive book which, i.e. [[Intruder: Fair enough.]] "The 2006 Academy of Flights". It can be concluded from the mentioned material that our National Academy has performed numerous tasks and activities in the development of science and art in the Republic of Croatia. This evaluation is based on the results of the work of the Academy of Assembly, Presidency, Classes, Scientific Councils, Scientific and Research Units in Zagreb and... other cities of that Academy foundation that I'm going to say a few words about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I have to mention that in the Croatian Academy, the Croatian Academy is often respected that in its work it is turned around in the past, little or no business dealing with modern problems, especially in seeing the future development of our country. The first part of the comments mentioned should be answered by the question of who and why he wants to justify the national identity of the Croatian people, his language, his literature, his history. And as for the second part of the objection, she just doesn't stand. Because the materials provided show that the Academy has paid due attention to the problems of technology, energy, agriculture, forestry, transport and maritime transport, economic research to the Croatian economy and fundamental issues of which the speed of our journey to the European Union depends largely. And these are the problems of the judiciary, the problems of the state administration and corruption. Given my professional interest I especially want to highlight the Academy's contribution to the development of medical science,... work on research projects and this by forming a bank for basic research, a tumour DNA bank of man, interferon in tumour therapy, then breast disease. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With extraordinary achievements, I also believe that the Academy in collaboration with the Lexicographic Institute "Miroslav Krleža" published the first dictionary of medical and medical terms in us. And I am particularly pleased that this year, our medical scientist, Professor Ivica Kostelic, founder of the Institute for the Development of the Brain, has 30 projects at this time, was accepted and highlighted at the Academy. I think he's one of the world's greatest human brain knowers. I can tell you that because Professor Kostelic studied medicine with me and was an excellent student. Then I would like to point out that the Croatian Academy encourages scientific research and art work, especially young scientists, researchers, by helping their work with the funds of the Foundation which, with about 28 million kunas of core capital, become one of the best foundations in the Republic of Croatia. Special attention is also given to the publishing activity of our Academy within which last year I think 109 books and notebooks in my own story and with the support of the Academy Foundation. It is also important to welcome the Academy of Efforts to open up to the media as much as possible what colleagues have talked about before. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out what was contained in the Report of the Assembly Committee on which Professor Selem spoke about it, that it should include the media to take more care of our Academy. I must say that the attitude of the media towards this Croatian scientific institution is not to allow, to be unacceptable and everything should be done to change that. Unfortunately, in such a relationship, I must say, it suits a certain public level, though few members of the Academy who, due to their dissatisfaction... attacks and disrespects also at the Croatian Academy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament allow me to propose to the Parliament that as founder of the Academy highly evaluate her work and to, and strongly support the entire activity of our Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88759	Thank you. We have two replicas. Mrs. Jagoda Martincevic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I'd like to rephrase to you because you've used one word, one term that's especially in my heart. You said the Academy, even this year, since we've been monitoring the one-year report, has done her homework with honor. It is this word: "honor" I think is one of the key things in the operation of our Croatian mind. Because honor also assumes that whenever the Academy received new members, it never shared them by any kind of belonging, not even by the usual, which apparently frustrations some of our colleagues here tonight. The Academy has always chosen its membership on the basis of mind and knowledge alone. And that's the only and only criterion, and that's why honor and honor are essential. What you said in your discussion, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88761	Thank you. Another replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88762	So here's what you're saying now, and by discussing this subject, you say and you complain like other speakers about the media's attitude towards the HAZU. And if there's really something standing there that HAZU itself has to change its relationship somehow to make that picture better in the media. But I will repeat, I will repeat what I just said was sad and sad that there is no place for a scientist of such reputation as Professor Radman. And just not to mention, that is, the result of such a vote on Professor Radman, I would say, in a good way, I will not now state other situations and cases, as a result of exactly the kind of reputation that HAZ has among the Croatian people and among Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88763	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Jurkin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88764	To get into the academy, it is necessary to establish, win or receive at least 69 votes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88765	Please! Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to remind you of the insult of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88766	The president of the Academy Presidency, the academic professor... He was counting the votes. [[You can't hear it.]] There were three candidates. He was Vladimir Happy, he was Miroslav Radman and he was Stipan Njonjic. None of them received 69 votes. This was pointed out by Professor Mosh, President of the Academy of Science and Arts of the Republic of Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88767	Thank you very much. It is not on the agenda here to discuss how the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts votes. This is an overall report by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. When before this Parliament there was a debate once and for the choice, my personal belief was that the gentleman concerned should, in all my knowledge, be a member of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. However, he is a correspondent or how, a member of the academy and I think there is also some constitutional regulation that says if a gentleman works and works in Croatia that he should then enter this regular system of the academy, if he works outside then it is correspondence. I think Professor Radman has moved to work in Croatia and there is no reason, I don't know that's my opinion, that in the next election Professor Radman will not be elected as a regular member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. But this opinion also has no influence or desire to influence academics in this election. They are completely autonomous and has been declassified in the Parliament to discuss how many votes someone has received. It is offensive both to the academy and to those who have been proposed and to those who have voted. And please, if you had nothing to say here, you had the right to speak, you gave up that debate, you could state your point of view, why you didn't do it. Therefore, this is part of a regular report by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. With this I think the work has been shown, the overall work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. And who had something to say and notice could come forward and not give up the debate. Do you, Mr. Florist, want to take your word for it? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88768	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to thank everyone for trying to look at my guess, and I know those of you who debated that you and I have read this book that we publish every year, it hasn't been published this year. Every year, the book is either thinner or fatter. Last year's academy didn't have a case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88769	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006 The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006 is accepted. Please vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 6 abstentions, 1 against the accepted, or concluded, are the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88772	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 82nd session held on 24 May 2007 discussed the annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development by an act of 30 March 2007. The Committee discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion on the annual report. In the debate, the Committee found that the National Foundation presented its work report in a transparent manner in 2006 as well as how it financed its activities. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament draw the next conclusion. An annual report on the work of the National Civil Society Development Foundation for 2006 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88773	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will immediately refer to what the chairman of the HDZ Committee and Club has said, indeed, that in a very transparent way, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development has submitted its work report for 2006 and of course we will support this report. We consider it extremely important for the development of civil society and we generally consider it to be an extremely important development of civil society for the Croatian future and, of course, for the present, especially in the light of the European and Euro-Atlantic integration ahead of us. I therefore think that the work of the National Foundation in the education of all those who should actively participate in the work of various civil society associations is, in fact, one of the most significant steps and something to further build on the activities of the foundations themselves. What is important about the work of the foundation was cited by the foundation itself, it is primarily the obtaining of an international certificate for the quality system, the introduction of a award of schools friends of the community that was quite broad action and followed through the media where indeed students volunteered in various initiatives, then the process of decentralisation of financial support as strengthening the capacity of civil society organisations at local and regional level. We find this truly of great importance because the greater the involvement of our citizens in various and various civil society organisations, indeed, is of the utmost priority and I say especially given what is expected of us in the European Union. Then the project, implementation of the IMPACT project from the European Centre for Intersectoral Cooperation, is therefore about cooperation and partnership at the level of Southeast Europe and the opening of opportunities for cooperation on new partner initiatives for the development of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I think it is quite visible that they were in the emphasis in the work of the national foundation in 2006 and indeed in this report contained all and the associations that the foundation funded and all their activities. In this regard, we therefore once again support this report by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88775	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Ruža Lelic, would you like to discuss? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And yet let us say a word because it turns out that we are not at all interested in civil society associations and national reports, and the report on the development of civil society is certainly not so. This report is very systematic, transparently made really in best practice and in theory and practice and transparently as our club president said, and it is evident that the national foundation for these 3 years has acted to achieve a visible shift in many of its activities, so I will look only at what I think is important. Surely it is important for the foundation itself that this certificate... thousands and one, and she got it based on these criteria that certainly mattered to her work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also important for the European Centre for Intersectoral Cooperation, we see that this will be done really in a beautiful facility that will have more content and that it will have next to the meaning of this area for education which is very important, that it will have units from the accommodation capacity and this multimedia center of the congress hall, exhibition space and library and indeed is one value for both the Republic of Croatia and the city of Zadar. I am particularly pleased with this award of school where it is evident that on the occasion of Volunteer Day that we had a conference in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, we had a volunteering of young people recently at the Volunteers Act, and we just pointed out that importance of volunteers in primary and secondary schools where under the slogan "I volunteer, I choose well". That's a really good choice, because there's nothing you can do to volunteer for it to be not good. It is also very important that what we had on the occasion of the International Volunteers Day is that primary schools in the Republic of Croatia where they had the opportunity to design various programmes, we see that it is schools that are really from small places and that they have managed to present their programmes and win awards and that there is also the Center for Education and Education Goljak, meaning one institution that needs help, but also those children want to help others in this regard. In particular, we consider the process of starting decentralisation and financial support and regional development where jurisdiction means for competition, for projects, for monitoring the funds that will be regionally deployed, I see for the area of Slavonia and Baranja where I come from, that certain co-operation centres are also, and I think it is important and I see it here later in your report which is really transparent and that many of us recognised associations have managed to impose and obtain significant funds and that someone who gets 800 thousand kuna or 300 thousand kuna can have all the professional assistance in these competitions, but I know here in the County, let's say where we have organizations that are really dedicated, working hard, without any practical means in their own premises, and so they are certainly not able to compete equally with some others and that since it is a national foundation. The Civil Society Development Fund has this education obligation and should provide technical assistance to those associations that are not yet... so that they can write their project in quality so that they can compete and get the funds, so I think that's very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you've really done a great job of showing up financially and all these projects that you've been doing, so I'm not going to waste my time on that right now. But I'm saying here I see from Vukovar-Srijem County that Vukovar has projects that have managed to manage some funds, and I see that these are mostly major associations from larger cities and I would say more advanced environments where there are certainly other opportunities to get funds while in these less developed areas we are going through, I don't think it's your fault, but I think that people are sufficiently uninformed, that they are not sufficiently informed and that they don't have enough education to make such projects, so here in that sense, if I can suggest that they have that too in mind of your activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88777	Thank you. Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88778	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, here's a brief review of this year's report by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for the past year 2006. It is of course commendable to him, above all, for the technical way and technical presentation of this report, but what is more important is how much the National Civil Society Development Foundation made for the past year and how it has promoted the very values of this civil society. To also praise this partnership relationship between the national foundation, between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, between the European Commission delegation in Croatia and between the International Development Agency of the United States... And the trusts... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, as you yourself state in this 2006 report, you have focused your energy on improving the quality of action system, and in 2007 the implementation of the Inter-resorship Cooperation Programme, the measures in the operational plan of the national strategy and the decentralisation of your work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, these are very important shifts, very significant. We always say that civil society is a space between family, state and market where people join to promote common interests. And when we talk about civil society, then we can analyze it through its four dimensions. And that's the structure of civil society, that's the external environment that civil society exists and works for, that's the values that are practiced and promoted by civil society, and that's the impact of the activities that civil society factors take, the strengthening of human rights, the measures of social policy, and so on. If we analyze our civil society through these four dimensions and if we visually present the results of four of these dimensions then as experts say, we get so-called. A diamond of civil society, and it visually sums up the strengths and weaknesses of civil society and can give a useful starting point for discussion and interpretation of what civil society is like in our country. I'll just take a quick look at some data to measure civil participation in civil society. Well, as a key indicator of civil society development is certainly this proportion of civic participation and I looked at a research that was not negligible. It is a research from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, where it is said that in a non-party participation in civil society where citizens from 1990 to 2005, 5.3% of citizens wrote at least one letter to journalists, that 61.3 signed one of the petitions, that 14.6 participated in protests. I'm sure it's something new for the state of Croatia because we know that by the '90s. For years, civil society had no place in the system. It is also to be commended that indeed membership in the organisation of civil society is a membership and we see that the results of the survey have shown that 35.2% of Croatian citizens are members of civil society. If we look at what civil society is, then we see that the largest percentage of it is in religious church organizations, that the second part is in sports recreational and unions. And it's a very small part of civil society in social, environmental, female and other organizations. All these actions in the community, then civil society organization as an urban phenomenon because we always see that there are really very few cities below 5,000 residents who have at all civil society, and we can't particularly talk about civil society in the country, which is the intensity and tendency I see and yours to establish it. However, the values of the frameworks of action will be reduced for both the sake of time and for the sake of everything. And in the end, I would just say, that it really might be important to ask one question, which is, does civil society offer a framework for social change? Does it really offer a framework for social change and can such a question be answered? It can be answered but not unambiguously. However, this report of yours shows that there are important trends in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-24-0.u88779	Thank you very much. Mr. Velimir Dance? He's gone. Does he ultimately want to take the word of Mr. Paul Schramatei? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! We're done for today. So tomorrow we said the 9th point National Work Protection Day, the announcement of that day goes to the second week. And tomorrow, the proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction will be discussed, at 9:30 in the morning. It'll be an exact agenda for tomorrow. One o'clock is the vote. So, please have that, that circumstance in mind that we're going to try to finish that point. If we don't finish it by 1:00, it's going to be another week. If we end up so much better. 13 o'clock vote. There you go. Have a good one. Thank you. We are going to the Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2006. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, the Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2006 is adopted. Please vote. The result? I find that most votes with 76 in, five abstentions and 0 against this conclusion.
