ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. We tried to make this report before you today as objectively as possible, to give as objective a representation of the situation in the defence system as possible, noting the achievements, but also pointing to the shortcomings and suggesting priorities in the next period in order to further improve the overall situation. I can, as one general assessment of the situation in which this report came to say that it refers to a period of special importance for the defence system and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, given that certain processes have occurred during this period which have largely determined our path and further progress in the process of joining and approaching the NATO alliance. In a word, we have brought in one of the basic documents of strategic defence planning over the past year. This is the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces from 2006 to 2015. We also brought in implementing documents that operate on the implementation of the long-term plan. And spent a whole series of other activities that led to the coherence of the process and optimization of the use of human, material and financial resources, and thus I would say wide, open the door to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO. I can say that this finding has also been confirmed by the recent assessment of NATO experts who, together with our experts, have conducted a breakdown and revision, a revision of the process achieved, and their assessment is that we have made significant progress and that this is one of the best years in terms of preparing the defence system and achieving therefore organisational conditions for the adoption of NATO standards and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to Euro-Atlantic integration. The report is shown in 6 units as you could see. The first part discusses the general strategic context, i.e. the security environment and current threats and risks, as well as the interests of the Republic of Croatia and means of protecting these interests through the construction of the defence system. Clearly, the assessment of risks and threats depends on the construction of combat capabilities that should be an answer to such risks and threats. The second part deals with the existing state of the defence system. From its legal arrangement through the main defence policy and planning processes, and to a description of the readiness of the defence system. The third part of the report discusses management processes in 8 main areas of the defence system, i.e. international defence cooperation, inter-resorship cooperation, human resources management, material resource management, financial resources management, military intelligence and security activities, research and development and administrative and administrative affairs. So that's part three of the report. In the fourth part, we are processing the social position and the social context of defence reforms. The main achievements in 2006 and the main developments in the next period were systematised in the fifth and sixth parts. The respected, respected MPs and MPs therefore answer three fundamental questions, how we manage the defence system, how we use resources, how we optimise the resources that we have made available through the defence budget and what capabilities we have developed, or what abilities we are developing. So, in short, as regards the security environment, the Republic of Croatia from risk assessment and threats is faced with a low probability of conventional threats, conventional therefore war threats. But at the same time, there is an increased risk of terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and similar forms of asymmetric threats. Such judgments as I said projected and resulted in the development of specific defence capabilities and priorities in the development of these abilities. Something about defence policy and planning. Processes in the area were focused on several areas. First of all, implementation of a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. So as I said, on the basis of this long-term development plan, we have come up with five implementation plans that are therefore an integral part of that operational planning. The long-term development plan is a strategic planning document. So we've come up with a human resource management plan. The material resource management plan. Infrastructure management plan. A strategic communication network plan and a defence policy implementation plan. These plans define carriers, deadlines and dynamics. These plans show exactly how the projects and activities of the long-term development plan will be realised, who is responsible for them, what projects and what financial resources are available for their implementation. What's more important about defence planning is the increase, so all of this has to be focused on supporting the capabilities of the Armed Forces. Therefore, increasing the operational capabilities of the Armed Forces with the aim of effective implementation of the mission of the mission. You know what missions are assignments? Strategic defence review, in the first place defence of national territory, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Then secondly, participation in peace support operations outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The fourth mission is to build confidence and security measures in the world and the fifth mission is to support the country's civilian institutions. So we must build these operational capabilities based on the strategic context and on the missions and tasks given in the strategic defence review. We have made significant shifts in improving the planning and management process. We've improved so-called. The system of planning, programming and budgeting, it's this famous SPP or PPBS as the Americans called it, the... system. We have implemented a whole series of normative and organisational and structural adjustments that allow the Republic of Croatia to be included through this defence segment in NATO and the European Union. The European Union also has a defensive dimension and we have taken care of it. We have declared our forces, so to participate in the European Union's peacekeeping missions, also in addition to those for NATO. The weight is ours, of course, to develop quality personnel for the needs of the defence system. I can say that the results encourage, but they are not the end of the activity, the challenges of hell will be even greater once we become a member of the NATO alliance. It's a permanent transformation process that we have to follow. During 2006, I therefore said that a long-term development plan has been developed, which has indeed been designated by NATO structure as one confirmation of the maturity of the defence system for the independent implementation of defence planning. So I can proudly say that we did not have mentors, that we did not have advisers, of course there are always advices and consultations with the people of the NATO alliance, but not in the way other countries, so those who are aspiring for NATO membership, had this in making their strategic documents. This long-term plan is indeed a confirmation of our maturity. We have detailed the capabilities, the new structure of the Armed Forces and have given key projects to equip modernization. In all three branches of the Armed Forces: the Air Force, the Navy and the Land Army. There are key programmes, there are priorities, there are dynamics of their realisation, and most importantly, we have provided material resources thanks to your support, thanks to your understanding, thanks to Parliament's decisions, so in the long-term financing of the next 10 years for the implementation of these projects, and I thank you again, because we have therefore reached some standards in terms of approaching that border of 2% of gross national income for defence purposes by 2010. Now this year it's 1.74, last year it was 1.69, so we have this support, we have material justification, and thanks to Parliament's decisions, I think we'll define these programs as well. We have continued the process of reducing the number of staff and are already around here near the target size. Today, there are less than 24,000 persons in the defence system in total. So including civilians in the Defence Ministry Armed Forces, they include active military personnel. The target size is you know, by 2010, 16,000 military personnel, in the Armed Forces, I speak. Two thousand voluntary handbooks, eight thousand contractual reserves. We're very close to that target size. At the same time, we are adapting the command pyramid in the Armed Forces in a way that we are performing the cadre, in a way that allows projects through transition projects and the separation of non-perspective personnel and we are receiving new staff, we are training new staff through more education programmes. So using the civil military school system. We're like a state, like a state, so not like a defense system. As a state, we realized the fourth cycle of so-called. an action plan for membership. The annual national plan is therefore presented. We, with an annual national plan, therefore practically its presentation in Brussels, opened the fifth cycle of the membership action plan in the membership action plan, are the number of obligations of the entire state, not only of the defence system, because the conditions for joining NATO are therefore the adjustment of all structures within the Republic of Croatia, which are therefore both political and economic conditions, it is a defence policy as a legal resource, it is a legal regulation and we have done our part of the work in the best way and as a state also so that we are really realistically expecting in the coming year, in 2008, an invitation for membership that should take place at the next NATO Alliance meeting. In terms of training, we focused on achieving interoperability, on training individuals and units to conduct operations, joint operations. I would say that training the armed forces to conduct operations abroad actually means increasing the overall defence and combat capabilities of the armed forces at all because these, these experiences, and the capabilities we get in joint operations with allies outside the Republic of Croatia on exercises etc. They increase the critical mass of the overall combat capabilities of the armed forces, this is a way to verify, therefore, our logistics, our planning, our organisational capabilities, and this is the best way to build the armed forces that, of course, use these capabilities to carry out their constitutional tasks, not only outside the Republic of Croatia, but also to defend sovereignty as a primary task. With regard to weapons of military equipment, gentlemen MPs of course have more problems, these are our priorities in the next period, a considerable number of current funds of Eastern origin, but during 2006, I have to tell you that we have made significant progress in the equipment of the armed forces, especially with communication and information equipment, with command systems, with so-called. C2, C3 and C4 systems, therefore, are systems for monitoring, command and management, both at the battlefield and at the operational and strategic level. That's very important. This is very important for operations and, of course, will then continue with the equipment in other areas. We have tried as best as possible to maintain existing resources because these funds are still well out of date. The structure of budget spending is not yet our most favourable because it must therefore be that the more resources we spend on equipment and modernisation and on operational costs, and the less on maintaining outdated equipment, the more the structure will clearly change as we obtain new equipment. We have big projects ahead of us. Follow the saga around getting an armored vehicle, so now it's practically at the end. We offer, we deliver a tender to potential suppliers, they deliver their offers, the State Commission will consider it, we will make a decision. We will also, therefore, prepare ourselves with certain studies, technical expert studies to select a new aircraft, to build a new off-shore... and a whole series of support projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The contribution to international peace missions is particularly intense, especially from engagements in the Afghanistan mission where the Croatian military contingent is tripled. Of course, I also express my gratitude to the Croatian Parliament's support. Thanks therefore to the decisions of the Croatian Parliament we can now and we have declared that we will increase our engagement in 2007 to 200 people, in 2008 to 300 people, we are now somewhere to 180 and some people. So we have, we're testing our entire defense system on missions in Afghanistan, logistics support, intelligence support, so and all those command-management systems, we're monitoring what's going on down there every day, and we're engaged in a lot of different ways, and I think that's good. Fortunately or thanks to good preparation, etc. We didn't have any more serious incidents. Our soldiers are recognized below because they have a sensitivity to the environment in which they operate and work because we have been through a similar situation through our experience in the Homeland War, our soldiers there are not boastful, our soldiers there do not behave as occupiers, our soldiers are recognized as soldiers with a heart who are willing to help, who understand the needs of that people and can serve us proudly. Armed forces, for this reason and other reasons, I would say the process that we have at the Ministry of Defence enjoy great reputation and trust of Croatian citizens still show and many public opinion research will really try to keep it that way, we will try to continue to be one system in which Croatian citizens have and should trust. That is why these armed forces are therefore the continuity of our Homeland War, and the armed forces and today they lead the people with the charisma of the Homeland War, but also the new young people who are trained to participate equally in international operations, in international language leaders who know the language, who know... procedures, which are intellectuals in uniform etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would now say something about that that we with these activities during 2006 raised the readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia compared to the previous period, the willingness of the defence system is high and the armed forces are able to carry out their constitutional task and in the coming years I expect it to be even better because we have all the financial assumptions for a more serious step in terms of modernising and obtaining new equipment. In the end, as a special part of this report, I would say a few words about the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. So it's in addition to this report. Since the Defence Act is specifically prescribed that the government once a year reports to the Croatian Parliament on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. During 2006, representatives of the Ministry of Defence visited directly physical contact with the competent representatives of all central authorities of the state administration, I stress. They are familiar with the state of defence preparations and have given guidance for their further promotion. So we have contact with a person, we have responsible people in all ministries and other central authorities of the state and we are monitoring the state of defence preparations and also in legal persons of particular interest in the defence of the state. The conclusion is that the central authorities of the state administration are conducting defence preparations from their jurisdiction and have updated their existing plans of defence preparations with our assistance during 2006 with our initiative. Under the conditions of upcoming integration, the upcoming integration of the Republic of Croatia is imposed, of course, on the needs of conceptual and regulatory adaptation of the area of civil defence, parallel to the adjustment of military defence. This means that we need to transform the existing civil defence system from one concept that is the product of the General People's Defence System into a crisis management process, so to speak. "Crisis Management Model." And that's what it's all about. In order to continue to develop the national security system of the Republic of Croatia, primary defences and management in emergency situations and crises, it is necessary to adopt a new national security strategy and by adopting it to focus further on the development of the national security system and the relationship of the elements of that system. We are now in the process of adopting a new defence strategy. It has been completed, in a phase of compliance with remarks from organisational units, the Ministry of Defence and the Office of Presidents. This new defence strategy is done in line with the recommendations from the Strategic Review and will focus precisely on the further development of this civil defence as a complementary part of the defence system and national security system. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, they can conclude that the Croatian Armed Forces and the defence system as a whole are once again ready to fulfil their missions and tasks prescribed by the Constitutional Laws and those whose fulfilment is required by the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm standing at your disposal for your possible questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85936	We're continuing the debate. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Chairman of the Committee Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85937	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! On 23 March 2007, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal of the Annual Report on the preparedness of the Defence System, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. ... on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia submitted by the President of the Croatian Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 16 March 2006. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] After the discussion, the Committee members are informed of the draft reform of the Republic of Croatia's defence system, and how the results are not the end of the activities, but are further a priority of defence policy in the next period. Most of the votes, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia in the text proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85938	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85939	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with an associate! Here, it is evident that the government is ruling the defence situation, that it does not even know that it submits an annual report and not a proposal for an annual report. So the government according to Article 8. The defence law does not submit an annual report but submits an annual report. So I'm asking, what are we discussing today? Has the Government established an annual report, or are we still discussing the proposal for an annual report? Thus, it is already evident how this situation is governed. Let's just say this is an annual report, not a proposal for an annual report as the government sent to the President of the Parliament and how you sent the president to us, then we can say that today we are discussing a haired and laminated virtual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources and the overall state of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the state of defence preparations. I don't know why the government needed that. Why did she not realistically state the situation because we know that during the period when the government first submitted a report, which meant in 2004, that in 2005, the government itself found that the situation was unsatisfactory about the state of defence system's readiness and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. This is our third report. During this period, the progress was made, which was adopted by a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces, but no defence plan was adopted today, even though it was the commitment and conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the government and the first report we discussed. And then, suddenly, the assessment of the condition can be, the evaluation is very good. As it may be, we are interested in the adoption of only a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces and this long-term plan for the development of the armed forces in order to begin to implement it is necessary to adopt that legal part regarding the fund, for real estate and for everything else and without it there is no process of modernising the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. So let's not talk about the virtual state, we're talking about the real state and the real state says that tiny shifts have been made. As far as the armed forces themselves are concerned, it was also discussed during the former government, and during this government, it is said that the reconstruction is being carried out, how modernisation is being carried out, how reforms are being carried out. Unfortunately, that's not true. There was only one part, which was a reduction in the number of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And the very course of reconstruction, reform, modernisation will be possible only when the work begins to take place, in the real long-term development plan of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. There's the rating, it's not just our assessment of the HSP club, it's what the representatives of the NATO alliance, Ambassador Nulant herself in Bruxeless said when she was in Croatia, don't tell stories, you didn't start with reforms at all, re-shuffle, or that you're finished, but you're only at the beginning of the whole process. Therefore, I do not know why you have changed the entire reporting methodology. So, compared to the first two reports, the entire reporting methodology has been changed, so it's a little bit and hard to compare the situation and data according to the state of the art and according to this new methodology, but it can be seen if you take an old report and a new report that you obviously didn't make it to the end, or we're interested in how it's possible that according to the former report there were 30 aircraft of the PC9 school pilastoras, and now there are 20 of them according to this report. So, as far as we know, these seven new ones have not been obtained, or the bad inventory has been done or the report has not been properly frisked. That's the same situation with the pilot training. It has been said to be carried out on 11 UTVA75 aircraft, although last year it was claimed that four of them had expired and were not officially heard and that more had expired. It is further said that there has been a good, better situation related to military police interventions, so there has been a reduction of 11.7%. If you cross-reference the data, you'll see that there were 660 interventions in the last report and this is 783. Well, then how is it possible to decrease by 11.7%? Therefore, we must be aware and realistic. In the field of normative work, you have been speaking since 2003 when the government submitted a defence work programme, so many laws need to be amended, so the Law on Defence, the Law on Service in Armed Forces, as necessary, that. To this day, we have not yet discussed these laws, i.e. the end of the term of office of this Government, and have only just been referred to the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Defence and the Proposal for a Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, it is obvious that someone should be responsible for this situation in the area of defense because it has been made little or insufficient in relation to what has been done so far. Who will be responsible for Croatia's lack of defence plans to this day? His defense plan is not only a function in the event of a war, but a defence plan has a function and in the event of major disturbances in the economy, he has a function in the case of natural and other accidents, incidents and everything else. To this day, the defence plan document is a plan of protection and rescue means in these situations a plan of preparedness, a plan of mobilization, a plan of functioning of the economy. You don't have that. You're saying you sent him to the President's office two months ago. According to our information, what you've been up to is not a defense plan at all. It's a set and a transcript of definitions from various NATO documents, not a defence plan. Look into the law, look at the government's decision on the methodology for the defense plan, and you'll see what documents are in the defense plan. And then how can you say that the central authorities are updating their defence preparations. How he'll update when there's no defense plan. How can I update when there is no defense plan? So we ask both the government and the president of the state who is responsible in Croatia for not having a defence plan today, although the Croatian Parliament has decided three times that a defence plan must be adopted. Then who's responsible? Who's going to resign? We from the HSP club or someone else? I can resign, here. Luka Bebić knows well, there is Andrija Hebrang, 1991, Croatia had a defence plan. We managed to build a 1991 defense plan. Luka Bebic was the defence minister at the time, Mr. Andrija Hebrang was the health minister, I was the president of the Defence Plan Working Group. We had it in 1991 and now we can't make a defense plan. Therefore, it is this cruel reality and cruelty indeed. It is also interesting that part of the situation is that you did not give a parallel real representation of the state of arms and military equipment, so the shift was made on only one part of what we have repeatedly spoken and warned about members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan so that there was the acquisition of those combat funds. But in order for the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces to be as such, I think that the Croatian Parliament must include the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. It means establishing a committee to monitor the implementation of a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces. Because unfortunately, that plan is just a dead letter on paper for now. Another problem is that the Croatian Government and without the knowledge of the Committee and without the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament submits every year within the framework of NATO's accession to the alliance and this second phase, the map submits a proposal for what it will do in that year and we should hear it as well as members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security when we go to NATO Command in Brussels or "Bromsum" what is Croatia doing in the field of joining the NATO Alliance, what is it planning to do? So that's what the Croatian Parliament doesn't know about. They do not know the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and then we must go to Brussels to hear what our country is going to do in this area. Here is Mr Pankretić, who was present and Mr Cain. So we, as parliamentary representatives and as members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, must go to Brussels and hear from the Americans what Croatia plans to do this year, this was last year, meaning in the field of defence and national security. There are also data that essentially point to the part that we will talk about later, but the fact is that in 2005 it is out of total, and 34 thousand 458 recruits have been recruited, only 20 thousand 466 have been found capable of military service. It means 60%. 60.38%, and 6 thousand 853 were found to be temporarily incompetent and incompetent, 7 thousand 139 were advertised. So it's almost 40% being temporarily incompetent and incompetent. And now it's going, now we're going to go to another variant you're planning in this part of freezing military service and to the part that you're going to have up to two and a half thousand to come forward. It means that a much larger number must be reported if we take these standards to the health condition of the recruit. So that's the part about the general state in the country. For the state of health care and everything else because this is, this is really huge. If 40% of a recruiting contingent has found that they are temporarily incompetent or incompetent, it is already an alarm. That's the same situation for 2006. The same situation means of 33,000 468 recruits, 20,000 were found capable, and 13,000 were incompetent. These are numbers, I don't think, we know that what's here is what it says is real in that part, but that, it's not good and it's, the government needs to take a significant number of measures in terms of this and in terms of health care and in terms of everything else to make this situation better. It is true that our members of the armed forces are esteemed and welcome everywhere. And that's true. That's what they told us in the NATO alliance and in the Bromsum at ISAF Command, but we need to be aware that we need to make important moves both in the field of the ground military and in the field of military aviation and anti-aircraft defense and in the Navy. And that's why it's important, don't keep writing: we're preparing a coast guard law. If we're going to put the Navy on our feet, we need to include it in the Coast Guard. It's the only way the Navy can get ships and be trained. Because we need this not only for part of the Coast Guard. We need not only war and direct dangers and independence and unity of the state. We also need this when one day we declare an economic belt in terms of protection of supervision and control. But I'm saying you promised in 2003 that the law would be passed. He's gone to this day. He proposed the SDP Club and the HSP Club on it. The government keeps saying how it works, works, works, but the law isn't there yet. Therefore, in conclusion and individually I will still talk about some other details on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, we cannot accept this haired, laminated and virtual report. Croatia has no defence plan and Croatia has done very little about what it was meant to do according to the Constitution, according to the law to do and according to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament regarding the state of readiness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia for all three branches of the armed forces and let us not deceive ourselves and secondly be realistic and state the state and proposal of the measures you will make and not every time say the same thing: "We have prepared, we have not sent". You didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85940	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85941	Thank you very much. Well, with a number of reasonable criticisms, I would have to mention that however, counterpart Kovacevic went a little too far when he said, "It's done," he thinks of the defence "less than it should have." I think our army is now at a very delicate moment in its reconstruction in which reorganisational changes are not followed by an adequate part of the state budget. It was only this year that it reached 2% of the state budget. Last year it was 1.7, before the 1.6 and so on. Well, that's what you should look at in those frames. I think they did what they were supposed to do in those frames. Just a few moves from two, from the 2006 reference year. They reduced the number of people by about 1050, excuse me for about 2160, and at the same time they refurbished with 1050 new, young. They've rejuvenated the personnel. They've done a lot for education, for professional training. That's what the report says. They've done a lot in international cooperation. They've done a lot to change the risk assessment. They included a realistic assessment of regional dangers and so on. I think these are all quality shifts that will certainly be bigger when our army and our defenses get that percentage of the state budget they need to have in the phase of their technical renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85942	Thank you. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Cosic. Here you go. ... I said you said you said a series of legitimate criticisms. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85943	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow this exciting and interesting debate to continue on a very serious and important topic in the Croatian Parliament. If it is a serious, important issue, then it should certainly be expected that debates by parliamentary deputies show the same level of responsibility for the subject. The first thing I would like to say very clearly is that the HDZ Club will support this report for a number of reasons. It's objective, it's complete, it's balanced. That's professional. It's not any hair and makeup. It is an assessment of the real situation with which, without any exaggeration, we can be dissatisfied. But in order to be more satisfied, the preconditions are related to far greater financial items in the defence sphere, and in the structure of the Croatian state budget, we have found that in competition with other important requirements and priorities, more than these financial resources are important for Croatia's future and development, because especially in the years of the Homeland War, all other needs of Croatian people, Croatian states, Croatian economies were in the second plan of arms and creating conditions for defence and victory in the Homeland War were a priority that was also shown in the structure of the state budget. We can be objective, subjective in our discussions for various political reasons, which is understandable and normal. However, we should look for a place from which we can still get an independent, objective assessment of what is happening in the defence system of the Republic of Croatia year by year and in this sense I will refer to the report so-called. NATO's PARP team regularly conducts detailed inspections every year, insight into all parts of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Land Army, Air Force, Navy, Ministry of Defence institutions. And what's not controversial is that we need to establish the report that we got from so-called. NATO's PARP team only a few days ago, and I was personally present at the analysis of the joint teams that were conducted and in which it was found that the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces, have significantly improved their work in organisational, each other's view. And here's one such independent assessment of NATO experts is probably the best measure of what's going on in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In his report, NATO Secretary-General Colston praised the progress of the Republic of Croatia in modernising and reorganising the Armed Forces, and our efforts to meet all the criteria and requirements necessary for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to function effectively within the various international defence institutions and alliances, NATO, the European Union, etc. And if this independent, objective observer compared the PRT team reports in the last five or six years then he would simply have to find out that progress is evident and that this progress along with all those weaknesses that can't be in such a big complex, expensive system to remove easily, quickly and easily. Only one of the simplest acquisitions of a single combat armed system range from 500m euros to a billion, etc. Ensure everything we should and what we would like in such a short period of time is not realistic terms in which we are economic, financial, but above all, security and there is no reason for Croatia to target this limited state budget at something that is not a real and security priority at this time. Mr Colstone, i.e. Assistant Secretary-General also praised a number of projects and steps that the Republic of Croatia, meaning the Republic of Croatia not only the Ministry of Defence but also other institutions and other ministries of the Republic of Croatia are setting up. He particularly praised the clear link between defence, security and foreign policy, and this corresponds to the fact that it is very often repeated that security is not only provided with arms, military equipment, but security is ensured by all instruments standing in the mood of state policy – economy, foreign policy, cooperation, regional cooperation, cooperation within international institutions etc. and I think it is an important feature of the overall way in which the safety of the Republic of Croatia is optimised in the area in which it is located. In terms of key defence documents, it is also commended to develop proposals for key documents such as the strategic defence review we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, as well as the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. But also clearly stated what deserves attention to be implemented, i.e. The implementation of the objectives outlined is extremely important. Good plans, ambitious, I won't say too ambitious plans if they don't work out, then they really don't make sense. Special responsibility and special attention to all of us, in particular the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces, as well as all future annual reports on the situation of the Armed Forces, will require a full concentration on the implementation of the outlined objectives relating to the reorganisation, restructuring and acquisition, i.e. Equipment of the Armed Forces to new combat systems. Very soon this year we have some important, key decisions, such as the procurement of armored combat vehicles that deserve, I would say the full attention of all of us, the Croatian public. Because it is not only a project aimed at the Ministry of Defence and which needs to ensure better fighting capabilities of the Armed Forces, but it is a project that should also be seen in the broader context of the development of the Croatian economy, employment and employment, as well as the engagement I would say the most educated, best Croatian scientific institutions. I'm going to say something about this, because the characteristics of modernization in this context are important in order for every investment in the defense system to have its multiple effects that are necessary. Djuro Djakovic is also very important in this context. But it is also important to cooperate fully with some other institutions such as the Brod Institute, Ruđer Boskovic, and it deserves special attention, as well as the willingness of those who become a system of integration of such combat, complex systems so as not to do more and less for their own purely subjective, financial reasons what they can but especially should not do what they cannot and for which they are not qualified. In any case, this report highlights an important component that is increasingly highlighted not only as a contribution of the Republic of Croatia to regional and wider global security, but is also part of an active foreign policy, and concerns the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace operations. The participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping operations has been taking place for over 10 years, and what has been very active these past years is related to the successful participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation of ISAF, which, as planned this year, rises to a level of 250 people and happens to 3 hundred people. Such an increase is not only an increase in people, but it will be a much greater challenge to the organisational, logistics and any other aspect, in terms of providing equipment and will certainly need to be monitored by the corresponding items of the budget that are related to the peace operation. PRT takeover, so-called. provincial reconstruction teams, as the reconstruction of Afghanistan as well as the restoration of any other area or country after the war is not only a stop to conflict, it is a special training and the institution of any society that can function normally. Provincial reconstruction teams are practically the contribution of one change in NATO's approach to addressing crisis that deserves special attention and requires full cooperation, I would say not only to the Ministry of Defence, but to almost all the ministries of the Republic of Croatia so that the task can be carried out, the construction of infrastructure, plumbing, power lines and all the rest is an integral part of such projects. However, in one risky and uncertain environment, all such work cannot take place without the full protection of the relevant units that NATO provides. The state of combat technique deserves special attention, something's been said about it. The remarks certainly stand, are not controversial, the average age of the system 35 years, are certainly not the front of what the modern world has, but I would say the next weapon of military equipment that we had since 1991 was not modern, was not at the level of technological, tactical and all other capabilities of the state's state's state-of-the-art weapons systems at the time, but we succeeded in one good cooperation of people, techniques, organisations, training and training to extract the maximum, and the Croatian Army did a great deal at that time, I would say most without any exaggeration when it comes to the creation of the Croatian state. PDO systems remark or comments outdated, anti-aircraft protection at altitudes greater than 3,000 metres does not exist. Fact. We in arms have light portable anti-aircraft systems of a type of needle whose range is less than 2 kilometers, but each other's weapons system with a range of far greater than 500 or 600 million euros. Yes or no. Of course, given everything that's been said, it's not a priority. Good long-term planning system, so-called. The PPBS system of planning, programming and use of available financial resources is a very important item as precise as it is reliable, as reliable as all those plans that are key in the strategic documents will really be implemented. I'll say one more thing at the end, and it's about research and development of defense systems and defense systems. I used to be 10 years ago when we were still creating the armed forces and the Department of Defense used to point out that we can't forget that in the early 1960s in the United States, the university like MIT, Stanford,... etc. They were among the chief advocates of the U.S. Department of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the stronger position of our scientific institutions when it comes to modernising the defence system certainly deserves special attention and I am personally aware of this, and as a person who has been in the area for over 30 years, almost 40 years and founded within the Ministry of Defence of the Defence Research Institute and in any case in the realization of all those plans that have been drawn up by this type of cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with the academic community and with the scientific community deserves even more attention, it is also highlighted in this report. And I would say, in conclusion, the HDZ Club supports this report because it is fully, objectively, balanced and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85944	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85945	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The annual report on the preparedness of the defence system for human resources policy and the overall state of the armed forces aims to answer four strategic questions when it comes to the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The first is of course fundamental, which is to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Are they ready to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia? The second question is, are they ready to defend the Republic of Croatia in the event of a threat? Third, are they ready to participate in peacekeeping missions? And the fourth is, are they willing to participate in building security and trust, clearly and helping the country's civilian and institution? These are basic tasks, four basic tasks, which, to which this report should give precise opportunities, point out shortcomings and create the possibility that in the Croatian Parliament as a supervisory body that oversees reforms, conditions, shortcomings and takes care of adopted strategies for the development of the armed forces to give an insight on the basis of which it can be concluded, on which basis certain conclusions should be drawn which should help to implement further reforms and strengthen the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, of course, I must say that in the nature of our policy and way of understanding the role and the task of this debate, this report, which can be called the primary interest of the Croatian Parliament, is the first step in monitoring the situation in the Armed Forces, unfortunately through the Committee and through the plenary session, and so far, these reports pass without too much interest, without too much serious consideration, serious criticism, but also the giving of those guidelines and solutions which should help and on the side of strengthening the role of the Armed Forces, but also on the part of the creation of the positive control of the Croatian Parliament over the Armed Forces as it is written in our Constitution, but also how we have defined it in the legal acts. Unfortunately, at the very beginning, when it comes to the state of the defence system, we come to the first problems that are pictured through a whole series of blueprints, the proposals that are mentioned in this report, which unfortunately cannot see the light of day, we cannot bring them in, we cannot begin to implement them. One of them, the HSS club, has repeatedly insisted, requested, and also in the discussions on both the board and the plenary session, demanded that these proposals of the law be passed as soon as possible, such as proposals of the Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, and in particular the Coast Guard Act. The Coast Guard Act, which apparently lacks space and is opening up speculations that, due to the lack of the Coast Guard Act, the entire aspect of not only the activities of the Croatian Navy as one of the segments of Armed Forces but also that part of the space allocated in some way to the Croatian Navy, as well as the protected ecological fishing belt as one particularly sensitive element both on the internal and external scale. Unfortunately, since the Coast Guard Law was not passed, it is constantly on hold. And that horn we set out to activate the protected eco-fishing belt will appear in 1.1, of course, because of the non-operativeisation of the measures and actions to be taken can be activated and activated but will not be consumed in an operational sense. So when we talk about this report, we can say about it in terms of preferences that we have that are satisfactory, that it's bad or that it's catastrophic. That's the one with the condition in the glass of water. Anyone can express that in relation to their preferences. But I hold on to this subject that no one has a right to such a wide range of references. Because the debate on this report is too serious a debate. It also concerns those in opposition and those in power. Because of course that task awaits everyone. That time, no one will skip those reforms and I won't get around anyone. Of course, they are too serious to be spoken of in an unserious way. Therefore, the critical evaluations which are based and which draw their argument not only from the domestic context of the view, but also from the external framework, and of course in the report we also have a whole series of chapters that apply to this topic with the European Union, are related to these topics with NATO, as well as to other entities that appear to talk about both the external and internal evaluations that are relevant to this topic. Democratic Oversight of the Armed Forces, which is particularly here under point 3 under the Defence Management Point, initially I said we can't say that we can be satisfied to the end not in the form itself. In our very form we have this mildly elaborated and democratic norms of our surveillance recorded, the committee conducts them, the plenary session discusses them. But reality is something different. Our political system lacks a serious position in real democratic surveillance not only over the defence issue, it is the same as over the security apparatus and in some other segments of public administration where only under quotes there is or there is parliamentary surveillance, and in nature it is just a violation of the bad situation and non-reaction, which is just as bad as that first, on the bad consequences resulting from it. Therefore, our overall political system must adapt to the standards that we are constantly stating, and these are the principles on which this is happening in the countries of the European Union, as well as in the Member States of the NATO system. Unfortunately, we cannot only change and create a legal framework without strong content. And here, when it comes to democratic surveillance over the Armed Forces, it is about content that is not available because it is silent in Croatia, because there is only one in Croatia when it comes to certain affairs that are being drawn up as grains of wheat and shows itself to it, and the actual content of these reforms that should follow when it comes to a democratic Andorian, then almost no government has the courage to put it on that level that Pero also talked about when visiting the United States of America about the way that the institutions of a stable democratic state are working, act and in what way they influence that democratic surveillance is not only a ficus but a real institution that responds, which warns and challenges what is wrong and what the executive government has not done how it should have done and did not lead to the degree required by the basic document. That is why the HSS club's appeal is also in favour of strengthening democratic surveillance over the Armed Forces. When it comes to the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, Croatia is clear as a country that has candidate status in the process of reforming the Armed Forces makes those measures in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, which relate to the reform of the entire system, education systems and strengthening overall security in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia and NATO have in recent times established serious frameworks for mutual understanding of communication, Croatia is ahead of NATO accession. Unfortunately, in the Croatian public, and this is a very serious criticism that we must give, there is a great misunderstanding, lack of information, and often there is a deliberate guilty awareness of NATO's goals and role. It's weird that 94/95. or 96 per cent of NATO-backed citizens were 60, 70% to 75%. Today he, for one reason or another, has fallen to below 35 or 40% of these or those circumstances. It therefore states in favour of the fact that if, and as far as I have the information, all political parties have put NATO as one of the main international objectives of all political options in their documents, thus also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But then the question arises as to how all political parties have placed NATO in their priorities, and citizens seem to drop it out of their priorities according to their preferences. Does this mean that there has been political and citizens inconsistencies or that there has been a discrepancy of understanding within that same topic? Whether deliberate abuse may exist in the way it tries to represent NATO. And that's why HSS made it very clear why he would be in favour of the referendum when the questions Yes and No come to light. Why? So precisely because not showing the referendum would open up an additional space that would oppose that NATO is a desirable institution that Croatia needs. I believe it is necessary, but, of course, aside from me, citizens should probably have reason to believe it, but of course I can't believe it this way when they're trying to be told now that they don't need a referendum. We must do the referendum for the sake of restoring the confidence of the citizens in NATO, but also the confidence of the citizens in politics. The referendum is the most direct way to communicate with our citizens and precisely because of the opposition to the referendum, I am not speaking at this point of the referendum, in which circumstances and in what way, but I very clearly want to say that the referendum. That the referendum works for NATO and for the credibility of Croatian politics. Both because of one side and for the other, believe the referendum should bear the label YES, not NO, because NOT 35% will decrease to 15%, and DA will increase those citizens if we can convince them by the strength of the arguments, the strength of the facts and the strength of those present in NATO, in which circumstances they can today achieve the benefits they have in NATO, in which they achieve benefits. Whether it is a higher cost or a lower cost, whether their citizens are satisfied with the actions that our Croatian citizens expect compared to today's thinking like our Slovenian neighbours. Closing the rights of our citizens, closing the doors that they should just knock on doors that are closed, will not create trust in either NATO or the credibility of Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85946	Thank you very much. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85947	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The title of this report is: Proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system for the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. In the last "Ferall" I read a great article by Viktor Ivancic entitled "What is our crown" and the division of the concept of officer and officer. I might be able to put in this story the elders, they're older by the rank of officers, I'm not going to define, but an officer shouldn't be someone who's cold-bloodedly deprived of life like he's selling oil, digging tunnels, smuggling I don't know about diamonds, running from the law, or terrorizing innocent public, raising millions of euros from secret accounts, etc. Well done to the officers of honor, most of them in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As the secretary of state mentioned earlier, people with charisma. But the public kind of gets the impression that in the '90s it was sometimes easier to make progress for those who weren't at every opportunity unmarried. Let's say General Zagorec, this report is also a report on the personnel policy of the Armed Forces. I ask myself a question among other things, and what is the difference between him and Luke Raic, who recently raised 280m euros or about 2 billion kuna. One of them was smuggling weapons, the other allegedly judodinaries. One and the other developed lucrative businesses. Rajic has the best dairy industry in '94. He took over 66 thousand 666 average salaries, and this other one is now buying hotels in Vienna. One and the other were sheltered abroad after the abduction of their sons, but that's where we get the difference. General Zagorac has lost his political favor, and it appears Luka Raic has or is gaining it. It almost enters the vital Croatian institutions without knocking. I'm saying that, among other things, because of some double standards that exist in public. And that's why the term officer shouldn't have a double standard. Clearly, there are good things in this report. The abolition of the military deadline, well, it's not about abolishing, it's about prolonging military service, but what we have is that more than 50% of recruits choose civilian military service, it really doesn't make sense anymore, and that story needs to be stopped. The boys need to be let go, clearly at home. The military needs to be 100% professionalised, but before that, two words about NATO that takes the central place of this report. The president of the parliament said about 7.8 days ago, Croatia enters NATO without a referendum. In Vesnik, it seems to me that Monday, President Mesic also talks about NATO, no referendum is needed. It seems to me that the dictatorship was repeated by Minister Roncevic in yesterday's voices. What are we going to do with this NATO thing now? Croatia should be in NATO in 2009. Croatia should receive an invitation in 2008. Clearly Croatian citizens are always against everything, that is clear. The referendum will certainly not pass, and we understand that. But now the same thing. Without joining NATO, Croatia will not enter the European Union either. The European Union clearly does not need to be glorified but in a European Union in which more is incomparably done than in Croatia, almost everything is except that I do not know, our sea, fish, wine, food better than in Croatia. Whether Croatia will join NATO is not dependent and I want to say that about Croatia, but depends on NATO. Whether Croatia will enter the European Union is not up to Croatia, but depends on the European Union. We, it's good to have a high opinion of ourselves. Why be modest? But I repeat, whether Croatia will enter the European Union or NATO, it is not up to us, but to them. The same imperfect world depended on whether or not there would be a war on the ground of ex Yugoslavia? When will the war stop? When will which country be internationally recognised? And is it up to God and will some of them enter the European Union, or NATO? Without NATO, there is no European Union. I say it's not a NATO problem. True, he loses his meaning so far, his role is no longer exclusively related to Europe, and it is dangerous. His role is increasingly becoming a role in the Middle East, God and the Pacific. The problem is I say, not in NATO, but in the Croatian stability, whether it's the opposition or the position, which I don't know at the centre, NATO in Brussels or when it comes out of this country, is almost how I express my underpants. It's not the problem with NATO, it's when MPs raise their hands for lost missions like those in Afghanistan. Fortunately, God enlightened us, and we didn't send the young men down to Iraq. That's the point. I know, the longer Croatia delays its entry into the European Union, the more it will depend on the European Union itself, on their capital, on their investments, on their acquisitions. However, no matter what, it is necessary to make clear the rules under which the European Union, or NATO, is being entered, and to tell people what they are getting, what they are losing. They get the obligation to work much more, they get the obligation to behave more transparently, and we'll understand the same way that no one in that Europe or NATO will give us anything for anything. But also no country that has entered the European Union since Europe has since lost that entry, whether it is old countries, old Europe or this Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, without talking about Romania, Bulgaria or what I know, tomorrow some other countries. A referendum means yes or no. True, the Constitution doesn't assume it, but if a bunch of citizens want me to, well, I'm the same principle where all Turks, here and little Mujo, but people need to be told the truth clearly. All that's for and all that's against. And I doubt even a single government will call it in the end. Mr. Cosic Kresimir said every system should cost Croatia 500m euros. Croatia clearly cannot obtain it on its own. It's past those times when the bank was emptyed so I don't know, for the S-300 used systems or what they're called, they're out three hundred and over millions of dollars. When I talk about the Armed Forces, two words about the procurement of armored transporters and those multi-purpose planes. It's also about a couple hundred million dollars clearly. The SAB has launched a campaign to sell its 12 planes... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The price of every plane is 30 to 40 million dollars. He's clearly competing with the American F-16. But now who's offering an offset program? What's on the other side of the armory supply now? It's stupid to buy both Finnish and Austrian armored transporters. What about the joint Croatian, Serbian construction of the M-84 tank at this time? I personally think that's a good thing. It's not good what happened in '91. when Vukovar burned, when Croatia pulled out of Vukovar 12 most modern tanks and across Zagreb, Rijeka sold them to Kuwait, while hundreds of thousands of young people were simply killed. Why would I bring that up? Because I am also talking about the offset program, because Croatia has to industrialize in some way. Although Croatia will hardly industrialise the military industry. But as part of the 14-air leasing, Hungary managed to get the Swedes to employ 3,000 700 people through Elektrolux. Can a deindustrious Croatia employ someone with its own capital in such technologies at all? That's the point. For war, which is probably a unique case, Croatia has run out of the entire war industry, but for this reason, some have also become oilers today, buyers of Vienna hotels, and that is another reason why the government would have to publish secret accounts abroad for the purchase of weapons. I will repeat once again that Raic once raised over 50% of the money that Croatia spent on weapons from there in '91. '95. Curiosity. Yesterday I was called by people from the airport here in Zagreb that on 24.2. for Zurich flight 040460W flew Ivić Pašalic and immediately said four days later there was a sale of "Dukata". It probably doesn't matter, but the curiosity works here's what I said I'll say. The tycoons we see today are the pillars of society, since the revision of conversion there is nothing or will be and that anthological dictation of Royce: "Whom I pitied." I suppose she would deserve to be immortalized with his bust in the Croatian Parliament. Defense system status. Croatia had nothing in 1991. She had those twelve tanks in Vukovar, so she sold them to Kuwait. 1991. Croatia was disarmed and afterwards because of the embargo where the Croatian role in Bosnia also contributed. On page 11, you are saying that you will literally protect the ecological and fishing belts of the Croatian Navy. That's unreal, gentlemen, not to say stupid. We can only protect ZERP with a strong fishing fleet. The fishing fleet needs gentlemen to develop, not develop a Navy, because where there will be a Croatian fisherman, there will certainly not be Italian and that is the point. The sovereignty of 2007 is probably something different from the one of '45. Or '53. And finally, which leaves us after 14 thousand victims when all the big systems and allegedly that next year hep should be sold. We will remain in power, pride, that we are on our own, an anthem, a flag, a football team where more and more Brazilians will play, but all major national systems from banks, HT, Pliva, tomorrow HEP will be owned by capital that will or will not have Croatian omens and it is relevant, and the Croatian military may be more in the function of protecting that capital than the state itself. But the war is behind us. I also agree with those who say that war has been imposed on us not only by Belgrade but also by world powers. I remember when Baker told Markovic to get the tanks back on track, and this one didn't realize that when the first shot was fired, there would be no more Yugoslavia or JNA and that there would be agony in which 250 people would eventually die, perhaps 300 thousand people. However, there will be no more war here. We need an almost symbolic army of top professionals, an army that won't spend more than 2% of the gross social product. NATO requires at least 2%. So, by joining NATO, the defence cost will be higher even though some systems will arrive that Croatia could never get on its own. Due to economic problems, I say that in 2007 the military will not be allocated 2% but will be less and it is a little comforting to spend less on the military. It is not comforting that economic opportunities are what they are. It's clear that it's all spent and these reserves, and that's why we need to reorganize the armed forces, but it won't, once again I want to say, make a policy. The commanding staff, only they, can do so in the true sense of that word. Croatia does not need a Megalomanian army, should have the strength of a quick response, high readiness forces and should have our soldiers stay in Croatia and not go on execution missions, to lost missions and one of them is certainly Afghanistan. Today Croatia has 23 thousand 874 construction sites, the administrative part of a thousand 767 armed forces 21 thousand 344, the other 763. That figure should be clearly reduced to 16-17 thousand people but well-paid soldiers rather than serving in the military more like a social service than a government service. True, some wonder how someone with 5,000 kuna drives Mercedes or BMWs, etc. But just as soon as unspective objects need to be returned to local self-government. For me, this report is not controversial, it can be accepted, but it should be discussed for a long and serious time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85948	Thank you. You have apostrophe of my alleged position in the press regarding the referendum "Yes or No to NATO". There is a State Committee for NATO which is co-chaired by the president of the state, government and the Croatian Parliament. I am one of the co-chairs of the National Committee for NATO, which includes both the presidents and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, the defence minister, the Chief of Staff. I expressed in the media the view that I share the opinion of both the President of the Republic and the Government that a referendum is not necessary from a constitutional and legal point of view to Croatia's entry into NATO. It's different from the political point of view, that's another thing. But from a constitutional-legal point of view, I've expressed my point of view. Whether from another point of view legal, political need or not a referendum on NATO is another matter. This is only within the framework of the constitutional and legal position. We have five rectifications of incorrect allegations. The first is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85949	Your Honor, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. First he says, "Croatian citizens are always against it." Speaking about this section of the NATO Alliance survey. Well, of course, they're against it when a lot of times politics has set them up so far and decided on their behalf. Croatian citizens must know full information so they can make a decision. The second correction to the incorrect quote refers to that part, he says, "There is no difference between Zagorec and Rajic.". There is. At least a criminal case has been brought against Zagorec, Rajic is not and will never be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85950	The second correction by the honourable representative, Plasimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85951	Thank you, Mr. President. And I will also correct two incorrect allegations. In fact, the incorrect allegation refers to Mr Cain's statement that joining NATO and the European Union is not up to us but to the European Union and NATO. That's certainly not true. I think that it is necessary to correct this, that NATO and the European Union are dependent on us first and foremost, and that it should not be interpreted as reforming and preparing to join the European Union for the sake of the European Union, but rather because of us. Another incorrect allegation has already been corrected in part by counterpart Kovacevic, that the referendum will not go away because the Croats are against it anyway. So at this point, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not against but are now exploring that such an unfavourable, unfavourable result. Which doesn't mean that would be the result of the referendum itself. In the end, however, this statement further bothers citizens because it turns out that citizens are ignorant and that the actual police are managing on their behalf. That's not true, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85952	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85953	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to correct the quote of my colleague Cain as Croatia's entry into the European Union depends only on the European Union. Although that's not the point of the debate. Of course, it is not true and it can be dangerous if we continue to play with it and for the sake of the public and citizens of this country should say so. But those who are last in the decision-making chain for Croatia's entry into the European Union are citizens of the Republic of Croatia with voting rights in the referendum. And whatever the European Union decides, the final decision will be made by citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not by Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85954	Thank you. Fourth Amendment, Honored Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85955	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain about the alleged 12 tanks from Vukovar sold to Kuwait. There were no 12 tanks in Vukovar in 1991 that were then sold to Kuwait. Unless you're thinking maybe the ones destroyed that went off like old iron but that's what we don't have information about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85956	And Fifth Honored Representative Zdravko Sočković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85957	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that 12 tanks were extracted from Vukovar and sold to Kuwait. The truth is that the finalizer of the tank "M-84" was "Djuro Djakovic" and that he had an international contract with Kuwait where the Republic of Croatia was bound. Only 17 tanks were delivered but "Djure Djakovica" which were newly created. It was delivered to Kuwait to honour the international treaty because otherwise they would have large sanctions and were also charged in favour of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85958	At 11.07, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDP counseling club. And you had a correction? That's exactly what I'm doing right now, Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85959	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support a report on the readiness of the defence system to implement the personnel policy in total, on the situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. There is no doubt that this report presents a whole series of statistical, legal, political and other assessments, evaluations and data from which the Republic of Croatia has made a significant shift in this area. In addition, it is clear and visible that this shift has been seen by, let's say by an objective observer and participants regarding the implementation and preparation of the Republic of Croatia, or our defence system for the approximation of so-called NATO standards and joining and including the Republic today, today the Republic of Croatia in NATO is calling. What's important to point out? As much as we look forward to a political assessment of an alliance like NATO that we have made major shifts, it is even more important for us to see that we have received a clear confirmation that the Republic of Croatia, or its defence system, has for the first time received an assessment that it has been trained to manage and plan on its own development and development of the Armed Forces for the purpose of ensuring, in fact, that there has often been no talk in the present part of this report, and that is the peace and stability that is usually a little talked about when we have it, but we know a lot of actually cry for the same fact when it is threatened or when we don't have it. The second thing that is important is to see that the Republic of Croatia has shown in this and on the basis of this report that it is able to manage in fact the so-called crisis situations in cooperation with others when it comes to our military missions outside the Republic of Croatia and independently which is also very important again. Thirdly, in our opinion, it should also be pointed out openly that the parts of the armed forces are especially the infantry and then the helicopters "MI-8" and... The demining took part with NATO forces in the conduct of military exercises that proved to be interoperable, that they fully met NATO's demands and that in this respect, the alliances, and that in this respect they actually showed that they could be fully compatible and as a representative of our armed forces in co-operation and in joint action with the NATO alliance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we would particularly like to stress here that all these actions are actually being conducted and prepared by the armed forces not to do so anywhere in the country or outside the country, it would be directed to lead war or military operations, among other things, and to establish peace rather than as well as to say, "In fact, strengthening international and internal peace and stability as a permanent commitment of the Republic of Croatia". Therefore, we are primarily at peace and stability, the defence of course of our country's security and security and, of course, tomorrow of those members with whom we will be in NATO's alliance if we come to such an opportunity to achieve this and become a full member of NATO's alliance. It should also be indicated that this long-term plan actually shows in advance the need for the funds that we now allocate to try to raise the budget up to 0.2% as soon as possible. We now have about 1.78... /The speaker does not understand." For a simple reason not only to bring NATO closer to the system but because of the need of the Republic of Croatia, for the modernisation of its weapons, its military has a role not only of the Ministry of Defence, as is commonly said or military command, but also of the government of the Republic of Croatia, where, in accordance with the law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the holder of the legitimate preparations of the Republic of Croatia, has the highest political responsibility, together with the Supreme Commander or the President of the Republic of Croatia, on the state of the Armed Forces. The Assembly must create legal conditions, political and programming conditions and, of course, budgetary conditions so that these projects can be met and implemented. What is very important here to suggest is that a whole series of these issues take a different dimension and, in particular, from the point of view of achieving the ultimate goal that we want to achieve. It is peace, security and stability of the Republic of Croatia in the country and in the environment, both in Europe and in the world as a whole, and it is much easier to achieve and it is fine-tuning from this report if we become a NATO member. In order to achieve that goal, we will have to do a lot of work. But it is also necessary to commit the exception that all elements worth showing that we are on a good path and that in this respect it happened early last year at the beginning of 11 months that in Riga we have received an encouraging position of NATO members who have indicated that we could probably get an invitation to join NATO in view of the quality of work and work we do and as members of a partnership for peace and, of course, as an independent military entity who is trying to do and reorganise the military and its adaptation and preparation to fully meet NATO's standards. What would not be good if it happened to the Republic of Croatia would not be good for the Republic of Croatia if we were invited to NATO, and that the current degree of commitment of our citizens to NATO's entry would remain at this level or be even lower. Because it's an absurd situation. If we want to enable security and stability, if at the end of such an alliance we want to enable ourselves to use the potential of such an alliance in the event of a threat to peace in our space today, then we need to communicate far, far more with our citizens about these issues that we sometimes call an official, military or such a secret, because we actually understand those issues that are secret in themselves and there is no need to talk about, but we are talking about those issues that have a democratic, political and other dimension and that we need to understand and have our citizens understand that we can measurely decide on these issues. Namely, what we want from the Club of Representatives specifically to indicate. No matter what political option would be in power, regardless of what formal law, the ex-legislative constitution does not require a referendum to be decided by a referendum on joining NATO. I do not believe that there is any serious political option that would make a decision to join NATO only on the basis of the parliament's decision if below 50% of citizens in all polls were to join the NATO alliance. That is why it is very, very important to communicate with our citizens, explain all the advantages, all the shortcomings, and also the delusions that are often mentioned in us, and from this pay phone about what all obligations we accept in advance if we become members of the NATO alliance in relation to what they really are and what we really need to do. The second thing we should be fully aware of is the fact that although formal law under the Constitution is not necessary for a referendum to decide to join NATO, it must not be forgotten that in accordance with Article 86. The Constitution exists first that the Croatian Parliament, and if this is the situation of support from citizens, can call out from its section a referendum as well as the President can when it comes to certain issues, especially when it comes to issues that are important for independence, unity and sustainability of the Republic of Croatia, can call a referendum. Therefore, there is the possibility of a referendum being called and based on such a political assessment of the situation, especially if it would be fuelled by the public's position and demands to consider the matter eventually and decide by a referendum. And of course, there's a situation where you have to decide with a referendum. That's Article 86 again. The constitution provided for if more than 10% of the total electoral body of our citizens actually collects signatures and submits a request for a referendum to be decided. Therefore, the referendum is not in the final line excluded. The referendum must then be held because such a decision is binding. But the question arises, in fact, is what we get by making a decision like this, and why are we having so many debates about these issues of decision-making. We're having a discussion on methodology instead of having content debates. We must come to whether it is worth it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, whether we need to be for the sake of defence security, stability with us and in the world of NATO member states or not. I personally believe it's worth it, that there's a lot of work to be done on. But it is also necessary to install into all the access documents that we will access and sign when joining NATO, of course, what comes from the Constitution itself and from the nature and nature of the NATO alliance, that all relevant issues concerning sovereignty, concerning violations of financial powers and concerning defence, the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are decided in accordance with our Constitution and our law. It is a principled position that itself stems from the Constitution itself, and in this respect there should be no doubt. But then there is no discussion that I do not know how to build military bases for individual NATO members in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that this will not be decided by the Parliament. That's what the Parliament will decide. If necessary, citizens shall also decide by referenda, etc. if such a version came at all, and I am sure that no one else, that none of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would want to accept such an idea. As it is also quite clear that the Armed Forces outside the Republic of Croatia, except in the Constitution, extremely permitted conditions cannot come out without the Assembly deciding on this. Therefore, there is no automation. All these questions should be clearly and precisely explained to our citizens. Our citizens need to create conditions and assumptions, and we also need to be clear, unlike some who warn about the possible destabilising of this area in the environment, I do not think that such fears should be called upon. I think we should call on what's far more important. It is a matter of peace, stability and security as a general value in which this country, the citizens of this country, and ultimately the International Community, because these are the preconditions of any development and progress and any raise of standards and of our citizens and our country, and that is why it is very important to point out. In this regard, NATO should be discussed in another light. Not about NATO as a military alliance primarily intended for defence-security activities in that situation to resist aggression and aggression as it has been so far. NATO is experiencing its important transformation. It is increasingly gaining its political and democratic dimension. It becomes actually an alliance that operates on the development of general conditions of peace, security and stability. In this respect, it should be pointed out in particular that it is highly transformed to be able to provide quality services in preventing, above all, international terrorism, then spreading weapons of mass destruction, the issue of fighting organised drug trafficking, people, etc. Therefore, NATO is also given another full dimension, and it also needs to act at the same time as a military alliance to warn everyone that any member or alliance in general or if it is attacked that they will defend and defend together. Secondly, he is a valid entity that, according to its reorganisation and organisation, equipment, training and training and military not only of this civilian-political aspect or intelligence-security aspect, is able to be a quality partner in the United States and as a member of the NATO alliance and an independent armed force, in fact, in relation to the protection of fundamental values that are relevant in today's modern world. This is why it is very important, in fact, to approach these issues in a different way and to point out what is particularly important, which is that the Republic of Croatia and when it is not a member of the NATO Alliance should and must, as a member of the United Nations, participate in the maintenance of peace and contribute to the strengthening of peace and stability in the world as members of the United Nations and where crisis areas are. And it is important in this respect to point out that all our forms of participation in both the Armed Forces and through training and through the maintenance of peace are related to a common decision, namely the decisions of the United Nations, possibly the European Union, and never beyond. And in this respect, every time these decisions were made, we made our own decisions, to what extent, in what form and in what means we will make our own contribution and participate in this regard. So these are very important questions. They are indicated in this report, they are potent in this report and they show that in all these segments, the Republic of Croatia has made a significant step. That this significant step is very compatible with all NATO alliance standards and that, in this respect, the continuation of the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and its application is actually a guarantee that the Republic of Croatia will not only receive an invitation, but when it receives an invitation, it will be qualified to be able to join NATO immediately, and the decision on this should be taken in a valid manner in accordance with the Constitution, and, if necessary, by our citizens, by a referendum, so that we must prepare citizens to be sufficiently quality and well-informed to decide, rather than simply vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85960	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85961	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have a report before us that gives an objective assessment of the state of the Armed Forces. And I think the report should certainly be supported. No serious objections. Of course there are critical views. The Croatian Army enjoys a special reputation in Croatian society, primarily because of its valuable role in the Homeland War and irreplaceable role. So here's my first observation that only the Homeland War is mentioned once in the entire report. I don't think we have to be ashamed of this, and we have to point out that the current state of preparedness, which is very good with poor technical equipment due to a lack of finance, is largely due to the experience and the Homeland War. The Croatian Army is developing at this point I would say under the influence of three main factors. The first is the reconstruction of the Croatian army from war to peacetime formation, which is very difficult. And that period was the period of all the armies that had been at war in history for years and decades. The second reason or other factor that affects the reconstruction of the Croatian army is the international situation and the environment, the accession to international integration that brings emphasis to these processes. And the third shortfall is funding because we simply can't parallelly rebuild the country after the war, develop the economy, bear the financial costs of the social burdens of the post-war and at the same time set aside for the military as necessary. But this last one is getting better, and we've come to this year's famous 2% detachment of the state budget, which is certainly not enough, but it's a minimum. In the sixth chapter of this report, I'm going to point out a few and look back at them. In chapter one, I think it should be said that the description of the security environment is very high quality and that this time more than in previous reports, it has also put emphasis on regional security. In other words, a very high quality and objective danger in the region was valorised and included in this report. The dangers in the region, of course, need to be seen realistically. It is a politically restless situation that awaits us in Serbia, the unsettled Constitution, the amendment of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. Although these neighbouring countries are, of course, part of international integration, still rightly points out here that the defence will monitor and coordinate the security situation. She can't be ignored and it's on here. The security environment of course of the global level has been very objectively seen and it is said that the greatest dangers at this time come from those countries that have remained unfortunately at the bottom of these global economic and social turmoils in their organisation by political economic achievements and become the global hotspots of potential global terrorism. Of course, the Croatian army plays its part in all the fallen structures of society to defend itself from it. It is clear that the Croatian military does not perform as individually as it did in the Homeland War but as part of the European and world institutions that have therefore joined together and which therefore integrate our army step by step into such a global defence system. And I think the Croatian army is up to the task. I would also point out from the report a system of education, education and training because I think that in 2006 a number of major steps were actually made in this direction. It is clear that education and education are aimed at achieving NATO standards, because this is our ultimate goal, and on this path, with great financial difficulties, the Ministry of Defence has entered into co-operation with civil, university and scientific and other educational institutions and has done several good projects in which a significant number of young people are now being educated for future active service in our Armed Forces. In 2006, an important document was created in this direction, which is the concept of education for the needs of the Armed Forces, and I think it is a very important document that needs to be compensated by the quality of our human potentials due to the financial disadvantages. In that part, I actually only have one question and one comment. Namely, no reserve training was held in 2006 and this actually continues for a large number of years in which the reserve is not further trained. And here, my question would be to introduce education and reserve training, because it is a very important element in the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia not only in the near future but also in the medium term. I know it takes a lot of financial resources to do that, but I believe that the organisational moves here could make up for the lack of funding. It's not just a 2006 feature. It's unfortunately been a state of affairs for years. The chapter on international defence co-operation highlights three main activities, one bilateral, the other multilateral and the third in particular with the emphasis of co-operation with NATO. In the 2006 bilateral, indeed very intense co-operation, 20 defence ministers' meetings with other defence ministers and 33 meetings of the chief of the armed forces' headquarters with other countries' armed forces. So, very intense cooperation. In multilateral co-operation, the emphasis is on co-operation with the United Nations where the Croatian Army participated in 9 peacekeeping missions, which is important for our integration of the international defence system. Thereafter, co-operation with the European Union is highlighted where, among other things, the Ministry of Defence participates in the negotiations of three chapters and a special emphasis on the US-Adriatic Charter, which is definitely our last step ahead of NATO membership. In co-operation with NATO, it was noted that the armed forces participated only in 8 exercises of the international organisation, which means indirect recognition of the quality and readiness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and compliance with NATO principles. In 2006, it was continued and, I would say, continued the reorganisation of personnel, so many states of armed forces, both the MORH and the armed forces with the aim of reducing their numbers and there was a good step I would say. In addition to this reduction, a plan for restoring staff with younger, qualified experts has been met. The number of people at this time is 23 thousand 874, of which 21 thousand 300 in armed forces and a thousand 764 seems to me or 5 in the Department of Defense which is a good state of charge of 83%. The report for this year, with this reduction as I have said, needs to provide for a further reduction of 800 persons from the management board, from the management service that will be according to the plan which has already been restructured along with its system under the Law on Commercial Companies, therefore to the company and there will then be included properties that are potentially economically usable and of course those people who have great experience in this. What I would point out in school is 198 students participating in school and will be involved after the end of our armed forces. I don't have time to talk about weapons and equipment in such short time, but I would point out one thing that really bothers me, and it's just mentioned in the chapter of social roles and relations with the public of the Ministry of Defense. Public relations on the part of the ministry are very correct from the website to different meetings with journalists, very correct reporting about what is going on, but what is not mentioned in the report is the attitude of part of the public towards armed forces, parts of the media towards armed forces, and I will quote only the shameful article of journalist Tanja Christmas in the "Evening List" of March 23rd of this year in which, with great hatred, insults, slanders and untruths, she was brought down on Croatian generals. I'll read a few sentences to see what's going on. She says that it would be difficult to list more than two generals who were not involved in scandals, in fights, in any indifference, that Croatian generals are generalised, questionable education, and we know that the vast majority of them are quality, professional, moral people with high military schools or high civil schools. She also said that most Croatian generals do not know how to behave, that the problem is even the jaw and knife. I would say that Mrs. Tanja Christmas is the problem of a pen, but not only a pen when writing such slanders, but also her relationship with the Croatian Army and everything that is Croatian. I think the Ministry of Defence should react actively to these articles because these articles are fortunately minorities, but they still participate in the education and creation of public opinion on the Croatian Army and such insults and slanders and only the ministry should be declared shameful, and we should join as parliamentary representatives. I accept this report, I am happy that it ends with the conclusion that the state of the defence system is satisfactory, it is a major step because the recent defence minister said that the Croatian Army cannot defend Croatia from threats, this report has convinced us that it can and therefore I welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85962	Thank you. Replica, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think this comment by Professor Hebrang deserves our attention, but I would also like to say the support of all those well-intentioned and responsible people of the Republic of Croatia. It is truly amazing that for 10 years without any responsibility some people in Croatian media have written all the worst about the Ministry of Defence, the armed forces, Croatian defenders, especially Croatian generals without responsibility, unselective, offensive, humiliating. This is not good and the question is what is the goal of such a policy because it is more than obvious that such statements and such performances of individuals in Croatian media have the support of relevant editors and relevant editors. Mrs. Tanya Christmas, who is also about me I remember well out there somewhere I don't know, in the late '90s, she wrote without any reason, without any foundation of a criminal-style article, a gangster in a black Audi. These people have support and these people are part of a policy that has to worry us because the question is what it has goals. I think that in such communication on the public scene, we are really in an offensive and unacceptable way treating the Homeland War, to Croatian defenders because it is too, which is irresponsible, which is unprofessionally necessary to prohibit institutions from reviewing at the level of individual editors. However, the fact is that some editors, such irresponsible ones, come forward without arguments, without fact missing, and some other attitudes do not allow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85964	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85965	Thank you very much. Here I am thanking my dear fellow representative Cosic for reacting to this, because I don't think such attacks can go without a reaction in the House. In fact, it is obviously not a reflection of the opinion of one person because it has gone through a satiate and a solution to the editorial selection of texts. It is also symptomatic that no state institution but individuals participated in the answers to such lies and meals on Croatian generals. I personally responded as a reader of that journal, but that's not enough. We need institutions that will defend the dignity of the Homeland War and the honor of Croatian officers, officers and soldiers. What stands here about Croatian generals would not allow any country in the world to speak of its generals, especially which has just come out of the war. Croatian generals are the students of Croatian victory in the Homeland War. I will not list the names of those honorable men who have always fenced and condemned themselves, that small minority, that small minority that participated in both the wicked and the illegal acts. Therefore, it should be clearly distinguished. In every grain there are weeds, and of course among the Croatian generals, because they are also humans and certainly war has caused all kinds of people, both those who are positive and who are negative. But those who are negative are such a minority that they cannot paint the whole picture of the Croatian general. Mrs. Tanja Christmas here underlines the opinions of some others, that the Croatian has too many generals, so she makes fun of it and says the acts are shared for unknown merits. She was credited with it because during the Homeland War she didn't know what was going on. We who participated, we know why Croatian generals received rank. And another thing. The aggressor Serb army had much more generals than the Croatian Army. Therefore, the comparisons are not in place. In all wars, the number of generals grew disproportionate to peace as needed at one point we had 400 thousand mobilized soldiers. So how many generals do you have to manage? Well, of course it needs more than peace. And the last sentence. In a peaceful age, we don't need generals who are officials, but in the wartime, the generals also have to be generals, because they can't dress hats but generals who fight and put their lives at risk. So I'm also asking the Department of Defense to systematically respond to this kind of meal, so it doesn't become a rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85966	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85967	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This report is haired, lax and does not speak the real truth and state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as about the readiness of the defence system, I have spoken of it a little more, I will also speak on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights club, but I will only repeat this part, how we can say that the situation is very good if we have not brought the defence plan to this day. A significant shift has been made only in the adoption of a long-term plan of the Armed Forces, the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but this long-term plan cannot be implemented because of the fact that the HDZ colleagues have said there is no money, but we rightists have been telling us for four years that modernisation and reform in the Armed Forces is only possible if we use what is possible to find the money, and these are valuable military properties. That is what the Prime Minister said in his opening speech that the part will make an important shift in the modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, here to this day, we don't have that law, so the law on closing and resuscitating these military properties. Germany made the model a reconstruction of its armed forces by filling the funds as well. What is going on in Croatia? In Croatia today these valuable military properties are donated and these are targeted donations. There are always donations tied up before this or that election, and in the end these cities and municipalities that receive these valuable military properties, that after the resale, and we stand today to finally refer this law to the procedure, because it is only possible to modernize and reshuffle if we have the funds and only at this moment can we get from this part around valuable military properties, leases, rents, and part and sell. Don't donate this to cities and municipalities, because these same cities and municipalities are taking money off the Ministry of Defence's account for not paying public fees. We know what the price of these valuable military properties is, say, downtown. Those are huge prices. And in the end, let's say that Varazdin, Varazdin turned it into a building zone, and it finally came to me, with Mr. Cacic. So these are either an example in Split or another example. These are all negative examples of not being well managed by a team of valuable military properties and how they are essentially targeted were donated to these valuable military properties. So that's the only possibility we have of going to that part of modernization. The only possibility where we can get the funds, but unfortunately here's four or five years we've been talking about it, nothing's done. Last year we said that we should go to a change in the Strategy of Defence and National Security, at the same time we discussed it and the proposal for a report for 2005, then the government said no need to change, everything is wonderful and wonderful, now after a year says it will have to change. Well, you should've done it already. We should have done it, we know what our strategy is, she's a dead letter on paper. Now he would focus something on this part of what President Shakespeare said about this committee, the Central Committee for NATO Accession. Why didn't the Parliament discuss this committee? Who made that decision? I guess it was the Parliament who was supposed to make a decision on the formation of that committee. I made that proposal when I came back from the road, along with my colleagues when we were guests of the US Embassy, so we were in Brussels and these other countries. They made everyone else out there the following way, that the committee was normally appointed by their parliament, that a third of them were representatives of parliament, so MPs. One third were representatives of the executive authorities and one third were representatives of civilian associations. They made it so they had subcommittees. It is the only way for Croatian citizens to get the full truth which are advantages, which are shortcomings. And now it means who made the decision. So you brought President Seks, President Sanader and President Mesic. What then is the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament decides on these matters, so I guess it was a place like in other parliaments, that such a decision should be made by the Croatian Parliament, and not by the three presidents, then we do not know who runs it. If they're three presidents, then it's like the former Yugoslav presidency so there's no telling who's doing what. Now I would further focus on this part of what needs to be done in the area of defence and national security. We need to be aware of the situation that we've only created a reduction in the Armed Forces, so the number of members of the Armed Forces. But unfortunately, and that was done pretty badly because from the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces leaves every day more and more officers capable, means educated officers who could contribute to further modernization, reshuffle the Armed Forces and everything else, but they see that they have no opportunity to act and anything else. The defence minister took over as defence minister and when he filed the first report, the situation does not satisfy how the state of the Croatian Armed Forces is so attached to the state of defence preparations. But what was done during that period? What was done during that period? To get a very good grade, the reporting methodology has been changed. The methodology that, like, virtually shows the state far better than what it actually is. So that's one methodology that's changed. But when it does, it has to be seen in parallel, but now it's impossible to look at last year's report and this year's report. So it's obvious that part of what I said on behalf of the club, that we now claim to have 20 planes... PC-9, and last time we were 13. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know that none of them have been obtained. We also know the situation of the issue regarding the implementation of the procurement at the Ministry of Defence. That's what Mrs. Šima Krasic told us, who told us how and how to conduct the procurement. We, members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, know some other information that I will not talk about. But obviously there's a lot of problems, there's a lot of gaps. So it's the procurement. Is there a degree of secrecy that puts something in the supply of something that as such cannot have a degree of secrecy at all? Nor can it then be meant to seek exemption from the application of the Public Procurement Act, means that it is public, open and transparent. So there's obviously a lot of problems. It's not done enough, it's done a little bit. And someone should answer for that. If Croatia until today, and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament was both in 2004 and 2005 that Croatia, that the competent authorities must adopt a defence plan. Croatia's defence plan comes with the government. The report said the defence plan was sent to the President's office. It was written last year in the report. It will likely also write the year that the proposal for a defence plan was sent, although the president of the state has nothing to do with the defence plan, he brings only the Armed Forces Plan as the defence plan is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We know what is important and the meaning of the defence plan and about the action in the case of natural and other disasters, incidents and everything else means, in peacetime functions, and also the function means protection and rescue. But unfortunately, we don't have that. We were in '91. A year. In that part, the former government didn't do anything, nor did she do this. And now just take this example so that we have, say, a plan to function the economy. It's impossible for this variant to be sold like this. Because that's the strategic part for the plan, for defence preparations, for safety and for agriculture and for all other situations. You're inconclusive who don't understand the situation at all and this area, but you've got written texts and now you're trying to convince me that's the virtual state of it. It's not a state of mind, let's say, and do what needs to be done. We've got the government, we've got the D.O.D.'s, so you're doing your job. That's what you're paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85968	I need to give you some information before that. It was a unanimous initiative by the president of the state, government and president of the parliament to set up a NATO committee that was supposed to be in place to actually promote the communication strategy adopted by the government, related to Croatia's accession to NATO. And there are also vice-presidents and vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament on the NATO Committee. There's Chief of Staff, Defense Minister, head of the Armed Forces. So it's not one operational body, it's a body that needs to mediate a communication strategy and not propagate it, but rather inform it of all aspects, which means Croatia's entry into NATO. So, to provide one complete piece of information and discuss but not operationally, not legislatively. That's the purpose of that committee. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85969	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So you just said just now, I apologize, I was going to tell my colleague Perry, when he compared the President of the State and the Prime Minister and you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, as if it were... Less Yugoslav Presidency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could have said, "If you want Pero, that's three tenors, it sounds much nicer European." Not going back to Yugoslavia. And another correction to the quote when you said you were in America. You weren't in America last year. I don't know what reason. No, not in NATO, not at a session last year. That was two years ago. Just for the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85970	The vice president, the esteemed representative... What is it now? Injury? What's he hurt in now?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85971	Well, he hurt Article 209. I said last year I was in the NATO Alliance in Brussels, Caine was with me, he was there. Therefore, I did not present anything incorrect. I was in America two years ago. And last year she was in September from 5th to 8th.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85972	Comrade Kovačević! Well, you're correcting the correction, aren't you? ... Take you to the defense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85973	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I don't agree with my colleague, Arabovic, but I really think the same thing this time. Those of us sitting on that state committee shouldn't exactly compare us to the SFRJ presidency. However, there are differences that you colleagues would need to know. But I'm going to remind you, Mr. President, of Article 210, where we should really discuss the points of the agenda. Well, I didn't like this part where we discussed Tanya Christmas and what she had goals, about her professionalism. Let them still judge readers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85974	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My replica to respected counterpart Kovacevic stems from an important disagreement with his approach to many things, and so is the work of what he was saying today. I would replicate exactly how the army must not return objects to cities and municipalities, because essentially they do not know how to manage, they trade, sell and what they are doing. It's a very, very bad thesis, because that thesis actually means that fellow Kovacevic actually means that our municipalities and cities don't know anything. Of course, in the thinking of the central and central state of Croatia, many think so. Everything should be handled from the top because at the level of county, cities and municipalities there is no one who knows what they will do with the facilities when they return. Contrary to how you mentioned someone selling or reselling. I would ask you, do you know how the army came into possession of these objects which now, for example, in a significant part of the municipalities and cities returns? Where is it that any army that was in this space was an army in the name of the people was building these objects, so now it's returning its own? Or most of these objects owned by the military also came to the decisions of the state authorities and that they were once schools and objects once built by the people. Also, do you know examples that in part of the returned objects, the contents that are important to the lives and functioning of the citizens and of this people have been produced. I thank the army that has returned a lot of facilities in the Primorje-Gorski County area. A good part of the Faculty of Economics has been redecorated in one facility. A university campus, which will be the country's pride, Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, is being built in a large military on Trisat. There will be a clinical hospital center on the part of that campus. A large army that was in a border municipality called Klana, I don't know if you ever heard of it, was returned to a small municipality and is the foundation of the development of that municipality, etc. I appeal that this is exactly how you deal with the opposite of what you said. For example, Delnice is waiting for a solution from two warehouses to come back to them to build a home for older people and retired people, and for that he has the means to secure, and I think I had to react to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85976	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85977	I've heard what you're saying but unfortunately you haven't heard what I've been saying. I was talking about how it's only possible to modernise and get money to modernise the armed forces of money. I was speaking the example of Germany, I was speaking the example of Austria, and I was talking about us talking about it for five years. Then I kept on talking about cases where these military properties were donated to municipalities and cities that eventually ended up in private hands. So the municipalities and cities just resold them. Don't talk about those positive things. But if we continue this way, then there must be a measure to be taken but we will not have until today any kuna for modernising and developing the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and this is the only option where it can be modernised in that part. You just have an example of me saying from the city of Varazdin and other information about how it was abused. Take an example of Split and elsewhere. So here we are talking about modernising the armed forces. All these military properties are in '91. The decision of the Croatian Parliament became the military property of the Croatian Army. Part of it was made and a list, if you don't know, listen now. Don't nod but listen, write if you have to. Part of it was taken by the government, part of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry found which are perspective and which are inoperable and there is the only option if it wanted to go into systematic resolution that it would know what the city would be in the municipality and that it would not end up in private hands and as a targeted donation that was especially for the former authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85978	Thank you. Second replica, the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85979	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a clue to what my colleague Ivanis was saying and where he cited some good examples of returning military facilities to cities. We also have a problem at Nasice where we had three military facilities where they were Dom JNA so-called. In time, a warehouse of territorial defense and military. These three objects have not been returned to the town of Nasice to this day and have been declared in the future inoperable and the question arises when will be returned. The JNA should be home to the Croatian Army, I hope it will and will be resolved in this way. The territorial defense warehouse, I don't know. It's been written off a long time. Last year was still due back, so it wasn't returned to the city. And the barracks have a beautiful perspective because it is intended to be home to the pensioners and we know well that out of the 5,000 seats that in Slavonia should be for the pensioners in Slavonia we have yet to build 2,000. And this kind of facility would help the town of Nasice economically because it would employ between 50 and 70 people, and this way trust me, Nasice doesn't benefit at all from this military service which is anyway envisaged as inoperable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85980	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85981	Well, look, my colleague says it's Dom JNA. It's not Dom JNA. The JNA's home may have been, but it's already out of that edition clearly, it's all clear to me. It wasn't Dom JNA, it was Dom JNA eventually until '91, then it wasn't Dom JNA. And that's what the same state can do if it rents and rents, but then it's known that the state will get a lease or part of it and that people will be able to get a job again and not that this variant is going to end up in private hands, then that's where the building area is built and then the apartments are sold. You have a situation like this. That's how it was done in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85982	My colleague Kapraljevic, I was just the other day in Nasice around that barracks. It was given to the Central State Property Office. The Croatian Army gave this. Now we need to find a user who will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85983	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85984	Dala. If you were in that HDZ stands, you'd hear it all. ... What didn't we call? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I still called you out the window. ... How could I not? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's where you were across the street. ... Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85985	Your Honor, Mr. President! After this year's report, I will still sleep more quietly because indeed the alarming statements of the former defence minister about how practically we are completely incapable of dealing with modern threats, not only military but threats to terrorist and others have brought many people a restless dream. As far as the report itself is concerned, the reason for my peace is more based on the judgment of the security situation in the environment. I think, however, that there is little in that part that is underestimating the potential crisis in Kosovo that today has been large debates among the world's leading geostratists. It's even about rebuilding the cold war, training the muscles, etc. Between Putin and the West and in that sense, it would be good to have a little more insistence on that. Another element mentioned as a potential threat to national security is turmoil in Serbia. However, it was not clear enough to say that in Serbia, parties still support military options. ... So, forces that support large Serbia and advocate the rebuilding of the war won almost 35% of the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'd be glad to have two corners mentioned in the report. These are the last military occupied areas in modern Europe. It is the area of St. Gera where the Slovenian army and the region of Saringrad is located. In such a significant report, this must not be missed not only because of the current situation but because of the situation "day after" because there is some kind of forgetting in this area. The third essential element that I received information from Italy, the Italians have already ordered 6 or 7 ships to monitor the economic belt. It's ships that can go I mean 30 and a few miles. They're super modern ships. Their price is between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million. We can't agree to buy a possible and second-hand ship. It bothers me that in the Croatian Army, in this reconstruction and development plans, there is no respect for the idea that Mr. Tonci Tadic and I have tried so far. Talked to even the former commander of the Croatian Navy not to break the tradition of Croatian submarinery and to obtain a small used submarine from Germans that could be multi-purpose, serve for scientific and other purposes. There's something I'd like to say about Mr. Hebrang's very interesting debate. This report lacks some elements that must be in such modern reports. That element I would call the state of custom of the heart of Croatian soldiers. We do not have one serious survey among the Croatian Army about their mood, their aspirations, the silences of social support, media relations towards them and so on. It would be good to continue with such reports using modern survey methods to test the sociopsychological motivation and other aspects of the work of the Croatian defence. Because the state of technique, organisations, reconstructions in the 1990s were not a decisive factor in the defeat experienced by the occupation armies in Croatia. The second key element missing is public change views. Some fellow Hebrang spoke about it, however, not only did the Croatian Army take first place in the research that I had conducted in my time, in the confidence of Croatian citizens towards the institution, but it kept second place behind the church for a very long time. Today it fell somewhere in the middle among those institutions that Croatian citizens have or do not trust. The result is also some rational reasons and some of the negative publicity. The surface of these last weeks and months is actually the princes of darkness that have grown out of the defense system. These are war profiteers, drug dealers, frauds, Vladimiri Zagorci, Hrvoji Petraci, and I don't know how all these people knew each other, and in this sense I think that the Ministry of Defence has one great duty to make along with this routine report a special report on these aspects that will be under discussion in Croatia for a very long time. With regard to the thesis presented by counterpart Pero Kovacevic, I think it should be supported in the view that the defence system, regardless of what aspect of the defence is under the Croatian Constitution, is within the jurisdiction of this House of Commons. Therefore, I would not admit it or not when the President of the Parliament, the President of the State and the Prime Minister, meet, they create an extra-institutional coalition that can be very dangerous. You remember that the biggest problems we have today are related to sending the Croatian Army to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the time when this army appeared there at the head of this House was Stjepan Mesic, who is currently the President of the Republic and he has no institutional formal responsibility, although he should withdraw it under the Croatian Constitution. Thus, this group of three people will not have any formal responsibility, but we, as the Croatian Parliament, will again be accountable by the Croatian Constitution. It should therefore simply be as boring as it is and as much time we spend going back to respecting literally the Croatian Constitution. It's very valuable that this report mentions the Succession Property. I have seen this brilliant thematic number of "Polemus" and I would like to congratulate the "Polemus" himself and you. However, of course, the market value of the surplus property is not as two billion and 400 million dollars says here. It should be seen what the market value of that is. But it's kind of a calculation value. It is good that we start to argue about this, and it would be good to do something concrete in that sense. Finally, as far as property is concerned, people who advocate the need for the Croatian Army to move out of the centre of major Croatian cities are right. The former occupation army put its military forces in the centre of the cities because their primary mission was to fight their own people. But in any case, the situation pointed out by Pero Kovacevic should be looked after. That under the company of a public-private partnership on, under the firm of very noble intentions, there may be already abuses. I would remind again once again of the thesis that the current seat of the MRL should be left to the Croatian peasant party "Croatian Work" and that you should move to the Black Sear and that the "Croatian Pentagon" should be created there. Here are some thesis that I would like to see in future reports, and what I am very pleased to see is that the research conducted by foreign public opinion researchers in Croatia despite all the troubles and demonisation of the Croatian Homeland War and Croatian defenders still over 65, 70% of young people in Croatia are ready to give their lives to their country. Therefore, it is a major stock of the Croatian state's defence potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85986	Thank you. A few replicas. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85987	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Letica when you mentioned "St. Gera" and "Sharengrad Ada" needed another addition. The space of the so-called space. Children's Hospital... It's on Ilock's way to Shidd. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've won the vineyards. But moving on to that hospital and the area around that hospital doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85988	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85989	My colleague, Stengl, always in some way enthralls my thesis. As far as the Charengrad Ade is concerned, it is the last hour for it to return there to the alasas and people who know the microworld, the ecologically complicated system and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament because others do not think, please do the same pressure on those who bring the trumpets from Dragacev to play on their children's birthdays not to do so before they return the Charengrad Ada.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85990	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85991	Well, Mr. President, I'm just glad Letica's colleague supported this part. It was the Croatian Parliament who had to make this decision on the establishment of a committee, determine the tasks of the board, determine who could be on that committee, because we heard from President Seks himself that he had already made decisions. He has his views. President Seks himself spoke of those positions, President Mesic, the prime minister said. So now they're essentially taking over that part, deciding on behalf of the Parliament, on behalf of the citizens. Okay, I'm not surprised that Djurdja Adlesic is happy because she's inside as vice president has entered. In that part, she's not interested in this part of Crucial. Who can form such a single committee? I say, out there, they formulate it, the decision was made by parliaments, and they knew what and how these committees were doing. Go to Slovakia, go to Slovenia, go anywhere countries that have passed this part as we have entered and let's not. What is the legal basis for making such a decision? Let's just say I'm curious about who the president, the boss, or who signed it by the Prime Minister or the president of the state. What legal basis did you take? Either you took it based on oral agreement or I don't know what foundation you took. Or based on the phone conversation, because we have phone sessions and government and why not be in that part and phone sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85992	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85993	I don't have a problem. However, full trust in our great leader Vladimir Seks as well as Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. I don't trust the President of the Republic. Because look, if you see charges for our generals, they're mostly based on transcripts he gave. He's got Budimir Loncar, the old POS intelligence officer. So, Mr. President, don't ever do that again to be in... You make people a deal because we're not completely at peace. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I have to convince you of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85994	Be calm! The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85995	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I would still go back a little on the real estate that was spoken of by the esteemed representative of Letica. Certainly, he would just like to mention that there are certain non-disciplines in this process of returning the Croatian Army's real estate. It has often been viewed as party membership, not programs. As for Varazdin, so it doesn't turn out that there's a lot of things going on in Varazdin I'm just going to say that where the train station is, in... at the station that is there is a dormitory, that at Križanić's Velučite Varazdin, innovator, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, regardless of certain objections Mr Kovacevic was referring to, it is certainly worth mentioning that the socially useful thing has been put there. Also for Croatian work, I thank my esteemed colleague Letica, but this is not the only property the HSS should have returned. However, we will try to get as much back to the HSS as possible because however, members of the HSS have put a lot of effort and money into building this property that is no longer in our possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85996	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85997	I don't know how much party bias there is. I know there's some space back in Bjelovar that I've seen and that he went to a public-private partnership. Therefore, they probably also have some discussions about pro domo sua means. And as for this property, if property can be returned to just anyone why the poor Croatian work would not be returned to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85998	Comrade Kramarić, how come you didn't report for Campus two Student Centres? Oh, yeah, because there's a big white military, military Drava, huge complex one for a student university in Osijek. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u85999	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I would say in advance that this report is comprehensive, clear and objective. It shows that the situation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is good if we look at the general social context, the situation in the economy etc. We're free to say that's very good. As we know in 2006, a long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was adopted here in the Assembly, but before that all institutions gave consent to it until the President of the Republic and also commander, commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. When it comes to this strategic document, I would like to highlight what is said in the report that NATO factors have given excellent assessments and Croatia has been assessed as a country, as a country that is qualified for independent strategic planning. Since our national and national interest is membership in the European Union but also NATO membership is visible in view of the information that was in our media yesterday that Croatia has an absolutely great chance and that this is a de facto done thing, the invitation to join the NATO Alliance in 2008, and we can say that the membership action plan takes place even faster. First of all, I think there is credit for the Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy, but certainly also the Ministry of Defence and other factors in the Armed Forces. Often, the question that citizens ask and I hang out with when it comes to Armed Forces, and they don't have enough information, but they don't know the details, and I do, too, and I think we're all aware that under more recent circumstances, under the circumstances of globalisation and... The process and approach of Croatia to the European Union de facto opens new perspectives when it comes to defending the new task itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are aware that today we can talk, that today we are talking about military terminology about a collective threat, and collective threats need to be answered by collective defense. In this regard, I believe that Croatia, given the course of NATO's accession to the Alliance and the European Union, is opening up new perspectives on security, but this certainly opens up new chances when it comes to the development of the economy and overall social relations. I believe that on the subject of the communication strategy, the Ministry and the competent authorities will certainly find ways to find out and that our citizens will find out whether it is a referendum or whether it will be a decision of the Croatian Parliament or how it is already going to be, that they will receive the support of most of our citizens, given I say new chances, new circumstances and new tasks of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which are so far extraordinaryly and well carried out and carried out by this Ministry of Defence. Since I worked for many years in the municipal sector, I can say that in terms of environmental protection, the ministry absolutely adheres to the strategy when it comes to protecting the environment that we brought back in two years in the Croatian Parliament. And ordinary citizens can see that so where the Croatian army is to be, absolutely, one of those subjects that best adheres to the communal and each other order. I'd like to mention a few more words about the public. I think the perception of the Croatian army in the Croatian public is excellent, that it is remarkable, that it is in the first row because of the Homeland War and Croatian soldiers as symbols of Croatian victory, on the one hand. But it is certainly and this perception is good, positive and thanks to the work of the ministry, people in the Ministry of Defence and people in the Croatian Army's headquarters. Given that some of the problems are mentioned, in fact some aspects of giving inspective locations, military units of local self-government belong to those who support such ideas, but in the sense that projects presented to the ministry, i.e. the Government, given how much it seems to me that it is the State Office for the availability of state property that judges and which makes a final proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it makes the final decision. I believe that good projects, which are of general social importance, are units of local self-government, means municipalities, cities, whether it's for the needs of the county or some other state institutions that they should be days without compensation or property or with the right to build, but not for ten or twenty years but for ninety-nine years. And that part that goes into the pure sphere of the commercial, which will be sold, which will be intended for any housing, anything third, I believe that the Ministry of Defence, given the expenditure and the tasks it has to do, the expenditure when I think of the financial resources, the tasks that it has to do that part should belong to the Ministry of Defence. In any case, since I am Sinjanin and we expect that in the coming time, negotiations are under way, that the military in Sinj "Ivana Shinelipic" so that these agreements and talks will be completed positively. But I'm saying, I don't know all the details. But I support in principle all those units of local self-government provided that the projects are assessed by the competent state institutions in a way that they can pass... I'd definitely mention what's important if we were already in January 1998 thinking or '99. the years get one significant object. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where the alkarians are made. The Croatian government co-finances 50%. And I also use this opportunity to thank on behalf of my fellow citizens for this wonderful, beautiful facility that will certainly mean a lot to Sinj in terms of tourist offers and also in terms of promoting those values that we are proud of. That would be my short contribution. And I'd like to mention something else. When it comes to women in the Armed Forces, I haven't seen anything explicitly. I think women are slowly taking their place in the Armed Forces. When it comes to peace operations, we can see that. We had one experiment when it came to the Department of Defense, so the Secretary of Defense. I don't think by that, good or weak, I wouldn't have gotten into it if we didn't have to judge. Women have their place at the Department of Defense and I hope that young girls, education, perspectives will be able to take the highest seats within the Armed Forces when it comes to the Chief Staff or the Ministry of Defense. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86000	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86001	Thank you very much. My colleague Bitunjac, I agree with what he said should give inoperable facilities to local self-government units without compensation when it comes to projects that have a clear purpose, which have projects behind them. And I would point out one example that has all of this, and it can't be realized. It is a municipality of Murter, a highly inspective military former facility on the Raduc hill that has already met all the conditions for 2 years, meaning a project that is very important for the development of that municipality, an economic and cultural project that has all documents of all ministries delivered in such a way as to finally give the opportunity to enlarge that space, because at this point it is completely devastated because it has been abandoned almost 40 years of all. However, this has been going on for two years. And here is also a public opportunity to call on the Ministry of Defence to make what is in their jurisdiction, but also what is in the jurisdiction and other bodies of public authorities make this complete military-acceptable object, but for the locals, for the development of the economy, for cultural content an extremely acceptable location to put in place to open jobs and ultimately be a positive message, not the negative ones that we constantly draw out. That's how I wanted to use this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86002	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bitumen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Markov agrees with you, but I think neither you nor I should cheer to say so about our environments. I think that should be settled in principle. You certainly work for them. That we need to solve things in principle and that we need to be absolutely clear about it. This means that those facilities or parts of objects that go for public purposes let's call this sector either for units of local self-government in terms of some of their needs, kindergartens, I don't know, either for the needs of the county or some state institutions it should be offered to certain entities, in other words the unit of local self-government. But those parts are mostly the part that, which is closer to the Adriatic, which is attractive, I think it should be solved either through concessions or through sales. Because you will allow both the Ministry of Defence and the need for these locations that are quite attractive and not serve general interest but are purely in the functions of the economy to be commercialised and that the ministry should participate and participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86004	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Djakic is not here. Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to dedicate this individual exposure to a single point called "The Management of Material Resources, namely Arming Military Equipment" part of this report. In the introduction, I would say that, just to try to paint the reasons why this is an important topic. Global security, collective defence that has been imposed as exclusive by World War II, I would say a system of collective protection, despite this well-placed thesis almost periodically speaking, Croatia is one example of this, causing crises of military, political, various parts of the world for this or that reason are under constant challenges, under constant threats. In spite of the fact, and we can today say that Croatia is not at this moment exposed to any immediate danger from any neighbours, whether of a narrow or wider environment, but who today can in this global world which has its advantages, but I say that despite that advantage, we almost periodically have places where, unfortunately, there is a constant war and where there is bleeding, where simply this collective security and global security often fails for this or that reason. That is why strengthening the country's own security clearly and within the framework of collective security within the limits of those funds that allow gross social product, which is some up to 2% is the fact in which Croatia is located. Of course I'm back on the subject of arms and military equipment. I would like to open the subject in a way that we should view as parliamentarians. How we as parliamentarians must and should influence it. In fact, the military equipment package must be decorated in terms of parliament, full transparency and accountability to our public. Because you know the countries that have come out of the war, which do not have until the end of the developed democratic control institute, often this part of the supply of military equipment and weapons and do not have such well-assembled, but also some countries of the European Union and NATO, according to a report by the Geneva Arms Control Centre, says in the report that they have no elaborated system of parliamentary control over the purchase of military equipment and weapons. Why is this important to Croatia? Because in Croatia we do not need to create reasons for internal need, but we must have it very clearly positioned. Because Croatia has defined itself, it has defined itself as a parliamentary democracy, and it is precisely this parliamentary democracy that results in Parliament's greatest responsibility in terms of military equipment and weapons. In my opinion, it is not only about transparency and because it must have full responsibility to the public, it is also about the content of this military weaponry and equipment. I don't think Croatia can allow a further course of supply of military equipment and weapons to go without the concept of involving the Croatian economy in the creation of the military industry. Croatia cannot allow and has no resources to come into a position to obtain military technology, equipment, without being tied to domestic resources. In my opinion, no procurement should be granted. At least of this Parliament, unless the component of domestic production is at least 50%. At least 50%. Croatia has preconditions for strengthening and strengthening the military industry. Often we are told about this country that is neutral, which has a well-developed military industry, so much is allocated to the Finland Army budget. Finland almost 80% of things produce. She's one of the biggest exporters of military equipment and industry. Therefore, its neutrality should be read out of the character of this neutrality, and the character of its neutrality is a very high budget for defence which is three, four and five times higher than it is Croatian. Maybe more, maybe I said a little bit. Thus, neutrality does not rest on the fact that you do not have and that you are not armed but that you are strong and powerful. If you haven't already, the collective defense system is cheaper for you. But why should parliamentarians take care of the purchase? Because it's public funds. But, of course, the purchase of military equipment must not question the other needs of society, economics, the social part and everything else. And for this reason, I think that one comprehensive information should be launched at Parliament level on what public procurement means and whether public procurement should be in the public procurement system when it comes to military equipment and weapons, whether there are exceptions which in some way would be a reason not to discuss information on the course of supply, the way of procurement, etc. I think that the issue of procurement should be prescribed in a way that is established by law, and that parliamentary supervision of the implementation of that law is part of that law. In other words, none of the purchases, the Netherlands has the best track system for that classification of parliamentary control over supply. There are two levels of procurement. One is a level of procurement that goes up to $25 million and one that goes over $25 million. There are three steps in the procurement system. All three steps are approved first by a special procurement board, military procurement as some sub-unit. I think Croatia should take these quality examples, that within the framework of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security there is a subcommittee on procurement that would directly control the procurement system in all segments. Why would he do that? Well, he wouldn't do that in any way to challenge or weaken the position of the ministry or the executive authority. Moreover, it would strengthen positions because the parliamentary subcommittee would have all relevant information on the course of supply. He would have information on how much the Croatian economy is involved and how much it participates in the procurement in question. Is respecting the goal set in Croatia's economic objective of reaching a certain level of military equipment and procurement that will satisfy the Croatian economy, and then the Croatian economy will be able to allocate certain means to strengthen military weapons and equipment. On the second level, the subcommittee would make very clear at the plenary session of this Parliament and Parliament would be aware of the way in which the competition, the conditions of the competition, would avoid any speculation and pressure. At this point, we must be aware that when Croatia decides to order certain transporters, it fights between Finland and Austria to deal with strong political lobbying, the pressures of countries that want their technology installed in the Croatian Army. Parliament has power in every country and so much stronger in Croatia than it has executive power. The power of Parliament comes, however, from the fact that different political options are sitting here, but they all share a common denominator that they are representatives of the people. Therefore, the role of both the ministries and the military would be greatly strengthened, as well as the procurement systems in this particular way. It wouldn't weaken by giving away any military secrets, because in the nature of that job, there should be no such kind of military secret. Parliament is not interested in the technological structure of the goods to be obtained, but is interested in the price, it is interested in whether what we have agreed is respected, which is that the component of Croatia, the Croatian part of any goods that enters as military equipment and weapons must be as much and so much. Whether it is 50, 60 or 70, whether the production should be moved to Croatia and combined with the Croatian part of the production, but in any case such one process would strengthen the negotiating positions of the Government, each Government of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand would have genuine control over the spending of military equipment and weapons, but also create one other support that the Ministry and the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia would have. Finally, such a way of dealing with citizens who are public and who is visible to everyone is clear to everyone to talk about NATO as well, a way to talk about all those things that the public has insufficient information and negative information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86006	Thank you very much. There's a replica, Mr. Jure Bithugnac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86007	A colleague of Markov, sounds very effective when you say about overseeing the Parliament, and about getting military equipment to be a new moment and moment in terms of resisting certain political, any other lobby. However, I believe that, as a legislative body, we, however, mean every Parliament, including the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, should not enter into the area of executive power. The executive power is controlled in different ways, in the first row by Parliament, that is, by the Parliament when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and our Government and the ministries, but in any case, I do not think it would be good for us here in the Croatian Assembly to take some... executive authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think we need that, that we shouldn't be burdening ourselves with it, but working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86008	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86009	Thank you very much. I don't think we understand each other. All these experiences that NATO member states and the European Union have, and these are their experiences, have subcommittees for public procurement, military equipment and weapons. One of the criteria of the Geneva Institute is precisely to monitor the military procurement and arms system and it is not in the function of demeaning the executive authority, but it is in function that there is no waste, there is no embezzlement, there is no abuse that occurs naturally, I would say almost naturally. Parliament strengthens the role of the ministry, namely the government and strengthens the role and recognition that public matters are being discussed. The purchase of military equipment, the supply of weapons is a public matter because our citizens allocate funds for this weaponry, our economy must single out 2% of gross social product for military needs overall. However, if we agree on this relationship between those who give and those who spend in such a way that those who give receive and part of the production of these military equipment, then we have created a good relationship and then we do not behave wastefully, but then we contribute to both the defence and the military being properly understood in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86010	Thank you very much. Final review, State Secretary Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are listening, and I've also listened very carefully to all the club representatives and the individual presentations. I must say that most of the exhibitions were constructive as they were, and it deserves a subject that was on today's agenda, so in that sense I could agree with the vast majority and certain facilities, remarks, suggestions, etc., but I really must refer specifically to the presentation and comments of the respected parliamentary representative Pera Kovacevic. Because I can't possibly accept a qualification to do it, I repeat, it's said several times about a haired, laminated and virtual report. I cannot accept the qualification that we are at the beginning of defence reforms, calling for statements by some of the official representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Brussels, that is, those who represent us. I'm going to comment on each of these allegations, but let me just say there's no way I can accept the fact, one of those kind of remarks that acts like a rainstorm, negatively, you didn't do anything. So, starting with that opening remark, the government is working and acting because it's a proposal for a report, not reports. It is, therefore, I would say a purely formalistic remark and remind only that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia adopts laws, and when presenting the law that these are proposals, and when they are adopted and published in the "National Journals" then they are laws. What's this gonna be called anyway is and I don't think it's a fundamental remark, but, well, here I go. Often, it is also mentioned in the context of the participants in the debate, but it is particularly highlighted by the respected representative Kovacevic, the Law on the Resuscitation of Military Property, questioning at all the possibility of implementing the long-term development plan, because it is said to be a dead letter on paper, because it cannot be implemented at all, because no law on the rescheduling of military property has been passed. All those who have carefully read the long-term development plan can see, when they look at the financial structure, how they finance the Armed Forces, the equipment and modernisation projects, that no single kuna is threatened by the funds that could possibly be obtained from the re-use of military property. So I'm just reminding him that the total cost of modernization and equipment in the 10-year projection is 15 billion 617 million. Of that, direct transfers from the defence budget are 10 billion 304. Loan payments two billion three hundred and something. Serving operational costs of new equipment somewhere around 3 billion. Therefore, no kuna is provided for by the funds that would be obtained through the reuse of military properties. I'm not saying that wouldn't be good. It would be very good, though. But we didn't have a projection based on it. However, in the assessment of the long-term development plan by an independent, professional institution, the Economic Institute has told us, gentlemen, you're standing firmly on the ground, you may even have been a little conservative because we didn't want to base funding on hypothetical means. Therefore, one such remark does not stand. Besides, if we're going to go into the details, so when some planes are mentioned, we say in this report yes. We say in this report, and now I'd like to ask to see what's wrong with that. We say in this report that the Republic of Croatia has 20 here, aircraft... PC-9 that's from, that they're all operational. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, of course they're all operational, because they're not declared unspective. I'm not talking about their regularity here. If you want that rightness more than last year. Last year was the correctness of these planes here, as the report is quoted, so it was the correctness of 12 to 13 planes. It's 17, 18 now. But we're not talking about regularity. We're saying they're operational. We've raised the correctness. Also in that last report, we said that with four UTWA-75 school planes, they pointed out the resources in 2006. And now here's supposed to be something controversial, we say that we have 11 UVA aircraft that are being maintained according to a special regime. To those who have run out of resources, we no longer maintain them according to the resource highlighting regime when you know what to do. So in aviation it's very strict. Parts change. But here, therefore, if we don't have a replacement plane or for initial pilot training, or we're just introducing it now, we'll get a new plane and it's ongoing. So, we, according to special lists of manufacturers and manufacturer maintenance procedures, maintain this aircraft by malfunctioning. It's one new method, another methodology, not so reliable, not so sure, but that doesn't mean if the resources are out of use. It's used all 11 of them. And fortunately, we're going quickly to get an aircraft for initial pilot training and I don't see anything controversial. Like what? of criminal acts. In 2006, we had 783 crimes in our report. In 2005, we had 887. But the one who reads the report for 2005 must know that it is the data by September of that year. So he can't count on that data, and we have data from the whole year, and then it's a reduction of 11.7%. Therefore, it is necessary to read well that one might be placed on the basis of such things, so that one such negative, general assessment can be given. Me too around real estate. So here I am, quoting: "Cities and municipalities that receive military properties of the same resale." There may have been such examples, very rare. I am proud to say as a member of this government, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and here I agree with most of the other debaters, their policy of resuscitating military property, has had a positive impact on the development of therefore, units of local and regional self-government. We have declared the imperceptibility of military property. There's a central state government property management office that has our data. And he's making a decision about re-appropriation. For those funds, up to 100,000 kuna, the Commission brings them at the level of the Central State Office. Up to ten million kunas of the Commission at government level, and over ten million kunas, the government decides. And the government has encouraged it every time. Me too, like what's wrong with Split? Well, here's the mention of Split. We get the University Library, we get the City Library. After all... will be an entrepreneurial incubator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's wrong with Zadar? Sports content? University facilities? Words, etc.? We're proud of it. It's not something that belongs to us originally. Of course, we will try to materialise some means but it is not up to them to implement long-term legal development at all. They're extra funds. And we don't plan on developing the Armed Forces on hypothesis, because it's too serious. So, a couple of data around the defense plan. Yes, I'll give the facts, so you interpret them as you wish. In co-operation with the central authorities of the state administration, the Ministry of Defence drafted the proposal for a defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and sent it to the Office of the President, to its previous opinion, because he approves it. We've received comments. An integral part of the Defence Plan is the Plan for Protection and Rescue, which is developed by the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. A plan to use the Armed Forces which also approves of the President of the Republic. The Defence Plan is therefore a roof document that in some ways synthesizes, unites all defence plans, the holder of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. We have this concept. But unfortunately, there are objections. Therefore, we are able to despite the fact that we do not have a defence plan to control the implementation of defence preparations. That's what we do. And that's what I said in my report. So, I'm sorry about this tone. I am really sorry about this tone of talk about this report by the respected representative Kovacevic. I'd be very happy if we had funding at 2% of our gross national income this year. We have 1.74 this year, last year we were 1.69, but we are supposed to reach 2% by 2010, and I hope that's how it will be and there's no reason not to be. This Croatian Parliament supported and approved a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces. I'll say something. Here, the Honorable Doctor Letica said that we do not have this year's research into the mood of Croatian soldiers. It's true, we didn't get that into the report this year. In the last report, it was, but for you, for information, so let's say it was a failure. Every year, there's an analysis of psychological combat preparedness. This is an analysis by our psychologists, a document that explains the motivation of members of the armed forces, those factors that have a bad impact on this motivation, the stimulating factors, so in the combat system that positively influences this motivation, etc., we have a full analysis. And tends to certain deviations, behavioral risks, etc., we do it every year. It is very important and it is important for itself, and it is an anonymous survey of members of the armed forces about their commanders. In this way we can objectively assess what is wrong with the chain of command itself, in the command structure, in order to then serve as a behavioral correction. So, it's done, but unfortunately it's not mentioned here in this report, but we do, and that's what I have to say. Of course I wish we had submarines. We've got a little sub-diversant that we're going to need, and now we need some resources to get it back online, but if we can get the submarine ready, gentlemen, we need to develop a whole submarine rescue system that had one or ten. If we happen to stay at the bottom and we're not able to do the rescue then it's a disaster, it's all very expensive. We need to make some priorities, we need to do some prioritization, and we've done it in this long-term development plan. We'll probably get that little submarine ready and sold. So, and there was a word about offset. Thanks for that. On that offset, so here I am at the Department of Defense especially and all my associates, etc. I insist from the very beginning. Someone didn't even know what that meant. Someone didn't even realize the importance of offset. Absolutely, gentlemen, I agree completely with you. The large equipment programmes of the armed forces must be an incentive and practically a driving tool for the development of the Croatian economy, because, for example, if it's about 200 million euros to a difficult project or more, then today you don't have a world producer who comes in from a position to pay you I sell you. There's no more of that. Every country is ready to enter a strategic partnership, every one. Rich countries didn't accept it at first because it doesn't suit them with the transfer of technology, the investment of some kind, etc. in a less developed country if they have no interest. But everyone agrees. And the minimum offset is 100% anti-value. We've come up with a guideline on the offset. This guideline on offset is a sublegal act of the Law on the Production, Remont and Arms of Military Equipment. He is co-signed by the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Defence. This offset favours several degrees of cooperation, technology transfer, participation in the production of the means concerned and all other investments. It has an incentive coefficient if this is a higher degree of technology, a higher degree of cooperation of technology transfer, economic development, etc. That's how we do it for all the big projects. It's a commitment. There's no project that goes without it, and it has to go with it. And I believe that even in the quality assessment of offers for all these major designs of equipment, at least that's how it should be, I believe that it will be and there is the role of the Croatian Parliament and the public, so welcome that in the assessment of the quality of the fund it will be the contents of the offset. What are the investments that the Ministry of Economy must primarily do to record the needs of the Croatian economy to see what development opportunities these are so that the country, for example, Sweden or any other country, can invest and it is true that the Hungarians are a decision for... get direct investment in new technologies, in new production with 120 to 130% flu value where they hired 3,000 and 700 new workers, qualified professional labour force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we do. We're bound by the law. And that's why I think what we're talking about today is very important. It is a ten-year period, 15 billion which can serve and be an incentive for the development of the Croatian economy. The esteemed Mr. Markov. We'll see what happens to the facility on Murter. I believe in this moment that he... It's perspective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll give information if we've sent him to the Central State Office. Then, by the basis of the projects delivered, they make a decision on re-use and, therefore, whether it is a concession, a sale and actually a selection of a new holder of ownership. As long as he's not re-intentioned, we have a responsibility for him and then often we have bad examples that are placed at the expense of the Ministry of Defence about the management of objects that we have declared inoperable and we haven't really solved the property issue yet. As far as public procurement is concerned, here I can only say that public procurement is carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act recognises three ways of procurement. Therefore, the call to all interested persons recognises direct contracting, identifying a limited call or procurement by calling for a certain number, hence the potential suppliers selected in the first round. And there is, under Article 6, the possibility of exemption from this Public Procurement Act. We're trying, gentlemen, to apply this exception as rarely as possible. And we support transparency. I personally participated in the Round Table organized by "Transparency International Croatia", which is on the Round Table on the transparency of public procurement in the defence sector. The round table was organised on the initiative "Transparency International England". There were ambassadors to all the prominent countries from Europe that were accredited in the Republic of Croatia. There were representatives of major global companies, NATO, the European Union and they said to me, "You are one of the 10th and even from the European Union countries who had the courage to come to such a gathering." And we spoke plainly because we had nothing to be ashamed of. Clearly, we are ready to be even more transparent. Of course, there will always be an observation of state audit. We're trying to get you, we're analyzing it. Now we're introducing a system of financial supervision and control. So it's a system that introduces the Ministry of Finance into all the centers, into all the bodies of the state administration. We have our internal audit. We have control mechanisms outside the state audit. I think that would be the answer to most of the remarks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86012	Thank you very much. We have two corrections, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86013	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting three incorrect allegations by the Secretary of State. First, about the public procurement. He says it was all legal. Have him read the State Audit report and read a report from the Military Security Service that said how much it prevented the conclusion of harmful contracts. Second, about the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia. There are no more defense plans. There's only one. Unfortunately, we don't have any defense plans. The president of the state doesn't bring in a defense plan. It is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the State only brings in the Armed Forces Plan. You also said you weren't planning a hypothetical long-term, long-term development plan for the Armed Forces. Yes, unless you use these other resors because of the fact that over 75% of each year goes to your salaries and material expenses. And in that amount, the 25% doesn't mean anything. So the report was really faked. And around the number of planes I used your report from last year, this year. It said for the "pillos" that there were 13 of them. Now it says there's 20 of them. It also said about "... 75" that there are 11. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That 4 will expire. You say different now. So make a deal with yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86014	Correction of Mr. Zeljko Kurt's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86015	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, you're trying to defend here indefensibly, or in my opinion, even needlessly defend. I believe that this year's funds would be invested in military technical means and weapons, which in a year's time, Croatia's entry into NATO pact would not be compatible with NATO's alliance to be the biggest nonsense, and therefore I think I trust the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to make sure that these funds are not spent in vain but by joining the NATO Pact next year to prepare the funds and to be ready to bear the burden of all the costs and equipment of the Croatian Army as one of the most modern armies in Europe. And I don't think we should defend this part where we don't invest enough in military-technical means and weapons. I don't think that's right and that's not necessary. That we're not drunk rich people. This year we're investing in this weaponry, and next year we're throwing it away and selling it for a living. I mean, to support this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86016	Thank you. It's mostly a correction of opinion. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86017	Proposal for a Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system of the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Report. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 4 abstentions and 4 against accepted, adopted Annual Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86018	And we move on to the following: - Final proposal of the food law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 638 Proposer of Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of procedure, emergency procedure, unification first and second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. A few words about the bill. The introduction is that today's consumers are educated. That they are well informed about the nutritional and protective health properties of food. That civil associations play an important role in this, particularly in the consumer association. Also, consumers today have a sense of healthy nutrition. In order to show increasing requirements regarding the responsible and true labelling or declaration of food. The globalisation of the market and urbanisation and the general change in philosophy and the concept of lifestyle have also increased the risks of biological, chemical or physical food contamination. We were also witnessing the 1990s an epidemic of zoonoses, so diseases of which are equal to human and animal diseases, various infectious diseases from cow madness, dioxins in food for animals, pastures of olive oil, and so on, which have affected human health and have caused major economic damage to national economies. All of this has led to a shift in food safety in the European Union. The 2000 White Paper on Food Safety promotes new food safety concepts. An old approach has been abandoned in which the emphasis was on analysis and control of the final product while the new approach we implemented completely in this new law and the proposal for a food law is no longer focused solely on the control of the finished product. The new concept of food safety under the motto "From Field to Table", "From Farm to Table", puts emphasis on the responsibility of everyone in the food chain from primary production, processing, transport to shops and consumers, or food safety, is controlled and monitored as a continuous chain. We also have a horizontal approach in the new concept. In the food safety control system, there is no longer a difference between animal food and non-animal origin. Also, there is no longer a difference between food for animals and food for humans because it is difficult to assume that if in primary production there has already been contamination through food for animals that this will not ultimately affect the health status of the final product. Also, food safety is based on an independent, scientific, public risk assessment and under the proposal of this law, the work would be done by the Croatian Food Agency in the future. It also promotes the consumer's right to choose food. In fact, the consumer must have full information on the origin, on the composition of food and actually have the option of choosing, on the possibility of making a decision that the food wants to use. What is extremely important especially for our producers is the emphasis on self-control. Therefore, a significant role in the entire health care system of food failures is played by the entities in the food business. They are obliged to exercise control of hygiene conditions in facilities where food operations are carried out and based on the principles of risk analysis and control of critical points. Therefore, on the basis of HASAP and also on the basis of good hygiene practice. These are the key principles on which food safety legislation rests in the European Union, as well as the principles implemented in this legislative proposal. This law is in line with the regulations of the European Union, namely the 15 regulations and, in particular, with the 2002 and so on regulations. the 2004 hygiene package that prescribes the requirements of animal hygiene and food, as well as official controls and food for humans and food for animals. Moreover, this law is in line with the 2006 regulations concerning the registration of food with geographical indications, originality and traditional reputation. It is also consistent with the 2003 corrections related to genetically modified food and genetically modified feed for animals. We believe that food safety is an area where, with respect for our national specificities, we do not and should not have reservations, we want to implement the highest standards of food safety because this is not the reason for the European Union. These are not the reason for the requirements, the dynamics of the negotiations, etc. We are already doing this for our own sake to protect the health of our citizens and our consumers and also not less important. In order to make our production system compatible with the European Union, our producers will receive the EU number and compete equally on the European Union market. Only full compliance with the 2002 Regulation and the hygiene package regulations requires the definition of the competent authority for the management of food safety risks. It is essential to establish a vertical structure and to have a unique control of inspections. So, you need that vertical subordination, you need that vertical chain of command in food control and control. In accordance with the proposal of this law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy has been found to be the competent food safety authority. In this respect, it covers the following tasks and is responsible for the development and implementation of national food safety policies. So, the adoption of a food safety strategy. For the process of harmonising the Republic of Croatia with the regulations and legislation of the European Union, for the organisation of official controls, for the coordination and uniformity of the activities of competent inspection and control bodies in the conduct of official controls, for the production of single plans and official control reports, for the registration and approval of facilities, the authorisation and establishment of systems of test and reference laboratories. It is also responsible for the inspection of food and food for animals in accordance with the division of competences in Article 86 of the Law. It shall also be responsible for communication with the European Commission and the competent authorities in the Member States of the European Union. It is also important to establish cooperation with international food safety institutions and to ensure intensive communication with consumers. Moreover, what is necessary to do and what is in accordance with Regulation 178 is that the process of assessing the risk of food contamination must be separate from the risk management process. This risk management law, therefore for legislation, for laboratories, for inspections is determined by the competent authority or the Ministry of Agriculture, as I have already said. And the task of scientific risk assessment was determined by the Croatian Food Agency. In order to ensure maximum independence of work and the public, the scientific risk assessment will be carried out in accordance with the position of the Agriculture Committee and the Government's amendment, so that the Director of the Agency is not appointed by the Government but appointed by the Administrative Council. I am also obliged to say regarding the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate. In fact, we have maximum respect for the current structure of competence and affairs and for the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Health as our national specificities, and on the other hand we do not question compliance with the regulation of the European Union. I also want to make it clear here that neither the Institute of Public Health nor the Veterinary Institute nor any other laboratory will be discriminated against by this law, nor will they lose their jobs. However, what stands in front of all the laboratories in the state they all have an obligation to accredit methods of analysis and accredit themselves according to norms seventeen zeros twenty-five. Who will be able to carry out the analysis in the future will depend mostly on accreditations, i.e. on those laboratories themselves. Because the accreditation carried out by the Croatian accreditation agency guarantees the independence of laboratories and compatibility methods, and thus the possibility that those analyses they do and the results they get to be relevant and relevant in international terms, which is particularly important in imports, is, with other analyses, we also demonstrate the health and quality of food that is imported. As regards the inspection itself, it should be said that their jurisdiction is clearly specified, defined in Article 86 of the Law and divided according to the jurisdiction between the State Inspectorate, Sanitary Inspectorate, Veterinary, Agricultural Inspection. We believe that it is precisely important that the provisions of paragraphs 9 and 10 of Article 86 where it is read that all information and all coordination and all reports are concentrated in one place, so in the competent body which we consider to be extremely important to manage risk quality, that the information and inspection findings are not left in drawers, but that they are delivered means to the competent body for the purposes of assessing and planning various activities, including in those crisis situations. Therefore, the articles state inspections which are not established within the competent authority are obliged to cooperate with the competent authority in carrying out official controls, to participate in the development of a multiannual National Control Plan, to participate in the preparation of the Annual Report on Official Controls and also to ensure the financing of controls within their respective competences. The head of the competent authority shall also, by means of implementing regulation, prescribe the manner and procedure of cooperation between the competent authority of inspections which are not established under the competent authority. As far as the inspections are concerned, we have an update. This is our novelty and specificity, and it is related to the quality of food, more specifically to the production of indigenous food. Namely, a food quality inspection is established in which food technologists and agronomists would be involved, and they would monitor the production of indigenous products such as prosciuttos, towers, cheeses, etc. as a specific product group which is protected in accordance with this law by special procedures, so as to protect the originality of geographical origin and tradition. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the implementation of this law and its regulations should contribute to a more effective food safety system and also to greater protection of the health of our citizens and consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86020	Thank you very much. The committee's reporters? Which one of you? Here, one of you. Let Mr Pankretić, and then you'll be the first one at 3:00. Because we won't have it for a while. Here you go, Mr Pankretić. On behalf of the club, the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86021	The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry at the 49th session discussed the Proposal for a Food Act. In accordance with the provisions of Article 87, the debate on that proposal was carried out by the home working body. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Although, following the opening statement, the proposal to carry out this law in the first reading was submitted, the Committee supported by the majority of the votes, however, the proposal for the proposal to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In a full debate involving the HGK representative, the Committee assessed that this law regulates the area of food safety and... animals requiring a comprehensive expert analysis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, some members of the board hold that it would be good to have a broader public debate on this law, no matter what the obligation is, since it is a significant law of general interest. By supporting the adoption of this law, HGK said it gives a second approach and greater responsibility to both food business operators and all those who oversee it, control and manage the risk. Although the proposer explained the reasons for the law's adoption, he pointed out that they were carried out in line with the 2002 e-Regulation, the debate also stated that there is no explicit confirmation by the EU. In further discussion, the opinion was given that this law should provide for such a role as to enable the Food Agency to be a fully independent body of industrial and political interests open to rigorous public checks and scientifically authoritative. According to the opinion given in the debate, this law does not show, primarily from the answers to the definition of management of the Croatian Food Agency. It is also a principle note, this law, no matter how good it is, will produce results if the adoption of implementing rules is delayed, as was the case with a large number of regulations under the 2003 Food Act. There is above all a need to have such regulations that will regulate the most important issue of the law, which is licensing a laboratory that so far in Croatia is only 6. Some members of the Committee point out that the application of provisions relating to new food, GMO food and GMOs may allow large imports of such foods and endanger organic agricultural production. It has been pointed out that the existence and use of GMO food and GMO products cannot be denied, but should only be used to help health, not to produce food. The priority should be given to integrated agricultural production. It is precisely because of the implications that the use of GMOs, GMOs and GMOs can be given to agricultural production that it is necessary to think carefully about the solution proposed, which is that the new law ceases to apply the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms which are contrary to the provisions of this law. On the basis of a debate conducted with most votes, the parliament is proposed to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86022	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Committee President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86023	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. At the 71st session of the Committee held on 27 March 2007, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the Proposal for a Food Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 21 February 2007. The Committee discussed the law as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The members of the Committee adopted, by majority, an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. During the broad discussion, it was pointed out that food health, the primary issue of public health, health insurance is important for the prevention of food-borne diseases and therefore has great public health significance. However, it has been warned that the food control system has been implemented for decades under the health system. By this law, the powers and the tasks of the Ministry of Health and Social Care shall be transferred to the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Thus, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has no influence in the legislative procedure. The accreditation of the laboratory is determined without the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and there is no supervision and control at the Croatian Food Agency. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is the opinion of the Committee members to play a key role in communication with the European Union, its institutions in charge of this area, as well as in controlling the functioning of the entire system. However, in the implementation of the law and further division of competence and accountability, the role of the Ministry of Health and Social Care must be strengthened. After extensive discussion, the members of the Committee voted with two votes with abstentions and decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Food Act with eight amendments that you received on your benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86024	Thank you very much. ... We opened the debate but the beginning of the debate would be at 15.00 hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first is on behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Next in line, Jagoda Martic and so on. So we interrupt the session. The sequel is at 15.00 hours as I announced with Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86025	We're continuing the session. It is next to the club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86026	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here I sincerely hope that this law will now be much simpler to discuss since we were all at lunch, that it was okay so this debate will be much easier to believe. So here at first I want to make it very clear that here today we are discussing one of the fundamental laws that every regulated rule of law must have in order to ensure the health level of food that is a prerequisite for the reduction of disease. Although the issue of food health is a strategic commitment, the issue of food production in Croatia must not be ignored, especially what we have been stressing food exports lately, and these issues should be the same in our words, I would say, of strategic importance. And would it be that one of these laws unites all those goals in itself so that we can say that the Food Law is also equal to the health regularity of food plus food production plus food exports. The best thing to do is to keep this equation from importing troubled foods. And when we look at our reality in this segment, we will see that the Food Act was passed in 2003 as a priority of compliance with the European Union, and unfortunately, not even 30 implementing rules have been adopted for its implementation. Now we also bring the same procedure conditionally stated P.Z.E. the priority is also this Law. We should all ask ourselves together what fate will be a number of implementing rules that are otherwise proposed by 2009. Whether to repeat the situation as with the previous law still in force. In order not to adopt a large majority of the implementing rules first, and then to say in the assessment of the situation of this proposal, that food quality will generally not be subject to regulation, but consumer protection will be ensured by the rules that are passed on to the declaration, presentation of product advertising and that for existing rules that regulate basic quality requirements almost all food products will be put off-line in agreement with the food industry within the framework of the Government of Croatia. This is where you really need to ask yourself why? In the survival of the regulation adopted in the quality of food, will food producers who still have to be recognised have a slightly different interest, I think it is in their interest that some regulations are much more looser, that they have open hands for a slightly different quality that if each company has, so is the food industry a very clear goal at the end of making a certain profit. The implementing rules should prevent interest rates, food industries, individual scientists, public institutions responsible for health care, the economy, etc. We must continue to make it clear and loud that the adoption of implementing rules, in particular those on food, must in no case be understood as painful reforms, neither for producers, nor for importers, but as the possibility of reviving the law, to launch the production of such food that will be able to cope with the requirements of the European market. Because when harmonising our regulations in food that are among other things the same prerequisite for entering the European Union, we must make sure that, because of future generations, we enter as best prepared as possible in the production and export of food as possible, not as soon as possible. Let's take a look at some information from the media concerning certain projects where European countries, with the help of Croatia, provide their energy independence, Croatia will store oil and gas for foreigners and that may be good, but let's stop and ask ourselves what is of general interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if it is not food production, and especially its exports? Speaking of which, we must certainly stop here and ask ourselves one big problem with which all governments are here, and this one is up to now struggling, a little more successful or unsuccessful, and that is certainly a gray market that today has a circus in some estimates, although it is extremely difficult to estimate 10 billion kuna, 30 percent of the total food consumption. This illegal competition of the gray market does not allow the development of legal production. If we do not solve the gray market in favour of our producers, it is only a question of when the European Union will impose market regulation on us, and then, of course, not domestic production, but unfortunately, imports. And before I refer to the specific provisions of this Law, I must say that it would be extremely good if the public, wider public debate had been carried out in this Law, although here I must commend the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which organised the first conference on food safety where the actual debate was of quality, but I would say that is not enough. We think this debate should be broader in any case because many of our citizens would certainly have something to say about this. At the beginning when I want to talk about concrete articles here, I will say the problem that we met in the first law, and unfortunately here it is even more pronounced, which is that European directives are extremely broad, principled and that sometimes when we have a law, I would say a bit of a literal translation of certain directives that in some cases this translation does not look good. The normative, or language structures that are used are not exactly appropriate and many things unfortunately become unclear. I think that, for these reasons, it is certainly necessary to make an important account that the European Union directives that we have committed ourselves to implement, to be translated into laws, should not be translated literally into our laws. I need to be freely told, and the creativity to try and adapt them to our expressions, and not to, and I'm going to show you that, for example, sometimes it turns out a little bit funny. Here, a little bit about these specific things because I think there's a few sentences to be said. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Food regulations must fulfil, among other things, fair practice in trade. We're wondering what kind of fair practice it is at the store? Where is it prescribed? Who is in what procedure does he determine? Article 3 When making and applying food regulations, those international standards that are being prepared must also be taken into account, which means that something that is just a proposal, a draft, a concept, has not yet become an international standard must be applied. How will those who apply the rules on food, you know, tell them how to apply the draft standards? And finally, what happens if we consider all this, what are the consequences? I don't see it in the law anywhere. This is just on a small example, where I would say, sometimes there are too many principles in these directives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. During the preparation of evaluations and changes to food regulations, open, transparent, public debates must be conducted. This is a good provision. Or, how does the Proposer intend to implement it? It would be as good as I've already mentioned, if we'd applied it to this law. However, what happens if, in making and changing the rules on food without a public debate, some emergency procedures are done? A whole series of rules implemented without public will be adopted or amended. Is that why someone will suffer any consequences? Or what's actually going to happen? Or are there some provisions just declarative provisions, so sometimes should they be written in law at all, or are we just writing them to satisfy the form in accordance with the European Union directives? Articles 11 and 12 prescribe obligations when importing, exporting food and feed for animals. Why are the criteria for importing and exporting food and food for animals different? In the case of imports and exports, the food must normally comply with the rules of the Food Act and there is a fence in exports. It reads: Unless otherwise requested by the competent authorities of the importing country or otherwise established by regulations, standards, codes of practice and other legal and administrative procedures in force in the importing country. Why, then, can Croatia not also lay down regulations, standards, codes of food to be imported? Article 13 provides for a requirement regarding international standards that the Republic of Croatia must promote and they are listed from a, b, c to e. The question is how will we help others when we are not helping ourselves? We cannot look for anything that the importing country may seek with imports in the importing country, while at the same time we must respect Article 13 which also speaks about ensuring that international standards do not create unnecessary barriers to exports from developing countries. A little bit in a certain free translation might mean that. Perhaps Article 11, will oblige us to import everything from all and especially the old members of the European Union, and Article 13, will oblige us to import everything from here, the countries of our environment, the Balkan countries, which, of course, means that those standards that we, I would say, work hard, work hard on them, work a lot, adapt a lot, spend a lot of money, and let's say the state as I don't know Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we should respect Article 13, should not meet. Sadly, if we read it that way, it can also be read that way. This Regulation shall enter If the head of the competent authority can and does not have to order measures, then this provision does not make any sense, nor does the safety for human and animal health that would have to be protected by applying those measures. The measures to be expressed should be explicitly stated, not by others, because this raises the credibility of the procedure, because it depends, let me be forgiven, about the pausal, discretionary assessment of a person. This Regulation shall enter This article also states that food business entities must ensure that all stages of production, processing, distribution of food under their control comply with the requirements relating to hygiene laid down in Chapter V. In Article 2 exclusively referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the provisions of this Act do not apply to primary food production, apply to personal use in the household, preparation, handling and storage of food in the household, direct supply of small quantities, primary products supplied by the final consumer. Of course, I think that in this provision we can define that if this applies to our small agricultural producers, the family holding that power' in that part, in agritourism, in rural tourism, in some way serve their products and give them, that they will be allowed to have certain added value in this regulation in their family economy, which is extremely important. Article 51 provides for the obligation to carry out a preventive self-control procedure developed in accordance with the principles of HASAP. Let us remember that here, when Article 29 of the applicable law speaks about requirements relating to the system of self-control, i.e. HASAP and that regulation, which ended last year, solved the problem, so we extended it to 1 January 2009. This Regulation shall enter Subjects in the food business must ensure that the facilities subject to authorisation are approved by the competent authority after at least one on-site inspection of the facility. I don't think it's clear the meaning of this provision as it is written, which means that the party in the procedure, the applicant, for example. For its facility subject to authorisation, the host must intervene to issue a solution, approval and at least after one review. It is really not clear how the entities requesting approval can affect the speed of the administrative procedure to which this authorisation is granted. Article 55 food business operators use a guide for good hygiene practice and application of the HASAP principle to be developed... distribute in accordance with the provisions of the food rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relevant law and Article 92(2) obliges the Agency to produce guides of good manufacturing practices, guides for the application of the HASAP system and guides of good laboratory practice. And now it is proposed that the subjects use these guides but it was necessary to specify who and within what time-limit guides for good hygiene practice and application of the HASAP principle because it is the only way to force the entities to use those guides. Otherwise, the statement of my Article 57 entitled "National Measures" should be made to allow the competent authority to grant a derogation from the rules in the sense of facilitating small entities in food business to these provisions relating to HASAP. Based on this provision, the ministry, which we think is not well, has a discretionary right to decide from case to case, not to apply implementing rules to individual entities. Article 74, when determining the measures to be taken by the competent authority, the other measures considered appropriate by the competent authority are listed. How suitability is determined and if this is not given too much indeterminate authority to conduct the procedure. Article 76 would be good to specify for which period of two, four years, the competent authority shall draw up a single multiannual national control plan. Articles 81 and 82 shall determine the authorisation of official and reference laboratories and, according to the implementing rules to be adopted and published by those laboratories in the "National Journals". We also see that, under Article 74(2), (5) and (6), a rule on authorised quality control laboratories has been adopted in the applicable law. However, it was not followed by the provision of Article 113 which provides that Article 74(4) shall apply from July 2006 and shall read: "The testing laboratory shall be authorised to carry out specialised activities and issue international certificates to meet the conditions laid down by the relevant standards and be accredited by an independent institution.". Article 75(5) reads: "List of reference laboratories indicating the analyses for which they are authorised... The reference laboratory is published in "The People's News" once a year.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But of course, unfortunately we have to determine here by quoting Mr Antunovic that only six of them have been accredited from 53 Croatian laboratories. With such a network of laboratories, we are unable to control food in such a way as is required by the European Union and to defend against imports of products containing harmful substances. It's a finished quote. Articles 87 to 93 are hereby established on novel food, genetically modified food and genetically modified feed for animals, subject to the adoption of implementing rules. The question is here, unfortunately, although in an individual debate I will open up a little more debate about GMOs but what should be asked here is that the deadline for many of these regulations that are related to GMOs has long expired, unfortunately we have a lot of objections in that section but in this I will be more detailed in the individual debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The transitional and final provisions are one article that's really weird, and I'll read it. "In order to comply with EU regulations, the leaders of the competent authority may, with the consent of the provisions provided for in certain articles of this law, adopt other implementing rules necessary for the implementation of this law." Perhaps this is a practical operational solution when the need to do not have to change the law, but I do not think it is good because I think this is one general authorisation without authority in the concrete provision of this law can adopt implementing rules without Parliament's control, just to say that it is to comply with the European Union. I think that such directives as they are should still be brought into line with our practice and that such a thing should not stand. This may be the case with the discrepancy in Article 133(2) excludes paragraph 1 from the appeal and then the unlawful appeal does not delay the execution of the solution, I think these are errors that should be corrected. Article 136(2) of the Law on genetically modified organisms which are contrary to the provisions of this Act shall be put out of force. I think it is necessary to answer the question on which specific provisions were being considered and how they will implement it in practice. In fact, only six implementing rules have been passed for the law itself and twelve have not been passed. In the light of the fact that the provisions which do not comply with the provisions of the Food Act are not subject to the provisions of the Food Act, the applicant shall decide whether or not there is an authorisation for the rules laid down. Finally, as regards this law, the Food Agency should have provided such a role as to make it a fully independent body of industrial and political interests open to rigorous public measures and scientifically authoritative. This law does not show that, in the first place, from the provisions relating to the definition of the management of the agency. From what I've heard, there's going to be some sort of correction, so I believe it might fix this part. Let me tell you about the Food Agency. Unfortunately, I can freely say the Food Agency has not met those expectations, which is why it was founded, and that is an unequivocal fact. The food agency should have been one body that would play a maximum role in protecting primarily all those food consumptions that would in any way be put at different risk. I'm afraid we're dealing with certain things I'm going to freely evaluate. I think we are all aware that Slavonia needs the necessary help, that a certain decentralisation of certain institutions should be carried out in Croatia. But that the solution that the Food Agency put into Osijek is that it didn't work is not a solution that can bring certain things to anyone. I believe that we need to take this seriously because the Food Agency is one body that is getting more and more powers with all future regulations, which needs maximum preparation to respond to all those challenges ahead of us. I owe it to these certain members and committees, which I chair for agriculture and forestry, to point out here when it comes to a certain food law, certain productions, and here we would say to our very persistent doctor Ivo Krpin, who I believe is one of the strongest fruit industry experts in Croatia. For many years now, here we are, proposing that we join the creation of the Law on Integrated Production. Well, here's a chance for the government to deal with it, so let's do it here, I'd say the wish and the will of Mr. Pupina, as well as the possibility that we might be able to discuss the Food Act when they're mentioned here and in a certain way, and don't give God GMO food and others. Then it would be much better to talk about integrated production. What I pointed out at the outset was positive, here is this first food safety convention that was held and where certain things were presented and presented. And what I'd like to say in this team is something that I have left and that we're all going to have to pay particular attention to, and that's that this law doesn't just stay a dead letter on paper, because I'm warning we don't have any more time. So it was very clear that here was indicated by a colleague who presented the food law to try to do the best in implementing the law on certain things to insist. The adoption of implementing rules, I will point out, nothing like this, which is definitely a regulation and a directive of the European Union, without implementing rules, remains only empty principles which do not have their full function. The internal reconstruction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy must be carried out. Sanitary inspection and organisation at the Ministry of Health in that part, strengthening, that is what the administrative and inspection capacities in both ministries have been said in such a professional way. Institutional strengthening of the Croatian Food Agency which I have here and in my presentation have pointed out several times because without an active Croatian Food Agency, unfortunately the entire system will not work. The establishment of a complete database of registered approved facilities, the establishment of a network of official and... laboratory, accreditation of laboratories and control bodies, introduction of self-control systems and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All that, I'd say well stated. It's all that, I'd say it's defined, but I'm afraid this law would never go back four years and not meet again at the beginning. If that were to happen, unfortunately, I have to conclude that it would be too much of a problem in this sector. Allow me to refer to a few sentences and to the proposal of distinguished colleagues from the Health Committee who have a slightly different view and have proposed certain amendments and I will talk about principles rather than some amendments that are proposed. Personally, I think that, here's what I'd say from some compromises in 2003, we did this if we had two competent authorities to monitor food safety. In that part, it was the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. A very clear and very specific European Commission, the European Union said to its directives: "It can only be one competent body." I do not see any reason why I would also say that, contrary to the European Union directives, the other competent authority is now reintroduced in a certain way to a small door and that is the Ministry of Health. I'm afraid for these reasons it's going to happen to us even though it's going to be difficult here, to bring all the regulations, all the sublegal acts if we introduce another competent body I think we can say it freely will be almost impossible. For these reasons, I believe that this part relating to amendments to the Honored Representatives of the Health Committee is related. However, it should not be accepted in this House of Highs because I am afraid that it will disrupt the whole relationship in this law and confuse certain things and I am afraid it will be contrary to the European Union directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86027	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative of Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86028	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Ensuring the health of food is one of the fundamental tasks of each country. Medically incorrect food can be a cause of serious illnesses often and with fatal consequences. There are no continents on the continent where no epidemics have been observed as a result of the consumption of medically incorrect food and we must not forget those effects that are not presently visible as they result from the cumulative, toxic effect of certain ingredients of food that is medically incorrect. If we have all this in mind, then we understand that it is a matter of great and public health and social significance. Food-related diseases also have economic consequences for individuals, families and businesses and also for the whole country. From all of this, the creation of the Food Act should be approached with extreme seriousness and thorough consideration of all the elements affecting food health law so that the final entity, which is, in this case, the consumer consumes food that will in any way not endanger its health. The food law was passed on 14 July 2003 and entered into force on 30 July 2003. As a reason for the adoption of this new Food Act, the partial harmonisation of the existing law with EU Regulation 178/2002 is listed. However, the need to bring legal legislation into line with the EU Regulation should not be a reason for me to think of the quick adoption of the new Food Act. I point out once again this is an important problem and should have been before the final draft of the law, which today is ahead of us, a broader public debate that would certainly have resulted in much more quality material than the one that we have on the benches today. If this had not already been done then at least the debate on this bill had to be carried out in two readings so that this law could be corrected and completed between one reading and another. And it was failed to do so and the SDP Club believes that the proposal for a food law that we have received is bad, unspeakable and in some of its specifics is unclear. I stress once again the health value of food has great public health and social significance. Ensuring food health is important in order to prevent food-borne diseases and therefore has great public health significance. As a result, the SDP Club considers that there is no reason to transfer part of the mandate and part of the activities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care exclusively to the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as proposed by this draft law. With this bill, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has no influence in the legislative procedure, the accreditation of the laboratory is determined without the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and the representatives of the ministry have also been abandoned from the Croatian Food Agency. We believe that in this way the system that we are talking about is successfully functioning for decades when we talk about food health. For decades, the system has been implemented within the healthcare system. And if he was successful, he'd best say the fact that in Croatia we didn't have any large-scale epidemics caused by medical malnutrition. We have no objection to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy plays a key role in communication with the European Union. However, in the implementation of the law and further division of competences, the Ministry of Health and Social Care must play a much more prominent role than the one provided for in this proposal for the law. It is indisputable that food health is affected by a number of factors because it is a complex process consisting of a series of stages that make up the continuous chain, which starts with the primary production and production of food for the animal, to the sale or supply of food to the consumer. It is also undeniable that the control system based solely on the control of the final product cannot effectively guarantee the health correctness of the food. The most effective way to minimise risk is to control or carry out procedures based on the HASAP principles, which implies the determination of critical points in the production process and their constant control, together with the application of good hygiene practice. It is necessary to say, when we talk about HasAP, that its definition is lagging out of the article which sets out definitions of certain concepts. Namely, the definition and full name of the system that we call HASAP anywhere in the law is not given. It is therefore necessary to give a full name and definition of this concept in Article 3. With the application of HASAP, the primary responsibility for food insurance, which is a health care provider, has a food business operator. When it comes to food production, there is no zero risk, but in this way the risk would be reduced to the least possible measure. In order for this system to function well in practice, it is necessary to exercise systematic control by the competent authorities. Recently, on the example of the "Carlovian brewers" we had a chance to see how the whole story could end. This time unfortunately and with fatal consequences if there is no timely and systematic control and not only on working days but on weekends, because those who wish to circumvent legal regulations usually do so over the weekend, because they know that the authorities are not doing it at the time. In order to carry out systematic controls, in order to determine whether food production operators comply with all those measures that will ensure healthy proper food, we need a sufficient number of professional and educated inspectors who are also equipped with the necessary equipment, not that we have situations where inspectors do not have enough cars available to tour the terrain. In addition, there are control laboratories that, in order to meet all the requirements put forward by modern food technology, need to be well teamed up on professional and educated personnel. And of course, they must be equipped with the necessary apparatus without which complex and demanding analysis simply cannot be carried out. Without all of this, the control of the application of the provisions of this law will not be possible to implement effectively. Of course, the question is automatically asked whether the government has enough resources to secure all of this? In the opening part of this proposal, the law explains how to close the necessary financial structure which is not exactly worked out by the items to see how much funding is provided for the realization of all these needs that I have cited. And it is also unclear whether an increase in the number of inspectors is planned, which is also necessary for controls to be carried out systematically and effectively. Article 14 of the Law lays down requirements relating to food health. The SDP's opinion is that this part was much better and more elaborated in the current Food Act and should not have been changed. The food law is a roof law which determines in which all cases a food is considered to be medically invalid and those provisions are called upon by all those entities who have to make a final decision whether any food is suitable for human use or not? As a result, we feel that it is not good to narrow down those provisions in relation to the current law, primarily in relation to Articles 13 and 15, still applicable to the Food Act. The Food Agency should be a fully independent body of both political and industrial interests. Only in this way will it be possible, objectively and independently, on the basis of scientific knowledge, to meet all those requirements that this bill sets before it. We believe that this law will not ensure independence. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The members of the Governing Council and the Advisory Council and the Director shall be bound in the public interest to act independently. They sign a declaration of no interest which could affect their independence. It shall also read paragraph 2 relating to members of the Scientific Council and the Scientific Committees. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For non-compliance with these provisions of the law, the Proposer did not provide for the introduction of any sanctions. Given the numerous examples that more than clearly indicate that in our society, without appropriate sanctions, there is little over-count for the conscience and responsibility of individuals, the SDP club has doubts that without sanctions it will succeed in ensuring independence in the work of individual bodies of the Agency. And this independence of any influence and, or personal interests, is without a doubt a prerequisite for the objective work of the Agency for Labour, which will be based solely on scientific knowledge. In the transitional and final provisions of Article 129, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall appoint members of the Governing Council, the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. What about the current director, his deputy and members of the Board of Directors? Does this provision mean that their mandate will cease, new people will be appointed? Or will the same ones who are now acting in these functions be confirmed? In Article 76, the competent authority shall draw up a single multiannual National Control Plan. And what about the annual programme for conducting inspection controls that is necessary for annual controls to be carried out systematically and in a plan rather than in a cryptic way? This provision of the law is in the hastyness of the adoption of this bill obviously turned out somewhere, or perhaps the legislator means to edit the issue in a different way, which is not visible from this material that is in front of us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The head of the competent authority shall adopt implementing rules laying down requirements for the quality of food relating to, and then shall be listed as to what it is all about, that I do not read now. This article is contrary to the introductory part where it says, I quote: "The existing rules governing basic quality requirements, the quality of almost all food products will be put out of effect in agreement with the food industry under the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Quick Cut project." When I read it, I stayed confused because I didn't understand how the promoter thought quality control would be conducted, based on which regulations. And then article 94 refutes that claim in the opening section, and these two attitudes actually need to be harmonised. Or the opening part needed to explain a little bit better exactly what was meant when it was said that rules governing basic quality requirements would be put out of force and I think that they would necessarily be applied further. Furthermore, the SDP Club considers that the two-year period for the adoption of the rules to be adopted pursuant to this Act is a too long period of time, because without implementing rules, it will not be possible to apply the provisions of the law itself, or it will remain actually a dead letter on paper. Another confirmation in favour of the claim that the adoption of this law was not to be hasty. There is enough time to carry out all the necessary actions so that when the law enters into force it can be successfully applied. We also consider that it is not a good provision in Article 136(2) which determines that the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms which are contrary to the provisions of this law cease to apply by way of effect. The adoption of the Law on genetically modified organisms stressed that it is a highly sensitive area and therefore needed to be regulated by a special law in order to ensure that all relevant GMOs are subject to strict control and supervision. If we bear in mind all the consequences of the use of GMOs, GMOs and GMOs for food for animals may arise when it comes to human health, environmental health and overall agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, this proposal should be given to this solution to Article 136. And only two more remarks. Article 7(1) states: "In particular circumstances where, following an assessment of the available information, the possibility of adverse effects on health has been identified but there are scientific doubts, temporary necessary measures can be taken.". We believe that the word "can" is not questionable in legislative regulations because the word "can" means that something can but also does not have to or should not be done. In the legal provisions, the statement should be clear and no dilemmas and possibilities of dual interpretation should be put in place. It should be made clear that it is the obligation of the competent authority which will then bear the responsibility for the possible non-compliance of that obligation and the word "can" is certainly not in that function. That word is also used in Articles 92(1) and (3) and should be amended. And finally, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to stress once again that it is a pity that this bill did not go into two readings because between the first and second readings on the basis of the proposed legislation could be significantly improved. This is how we got a superficial and unsettled proposal for a food law that we believe may be corrected by amendments in this form that we cannot support before us, and our final position will depend on this debate and the government to come out with some amendments and also accept the amendments submitted by clubs or individuals and will then depend on our final position on whether or not we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86029	Thank you very much. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86030	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The proposal for this law should pay particular attention to the selection of the head of the risk assessment body in view of the need for its independence, Chapter Four, page 17, paragraph 41. According to the proposed draft of the Food Law, Article 30, the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency shall appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia among the candidates proposed by the head of the competent authority of the Minister of Agriculture after the public tender has been carried out. Since Article 24 of the Proposal for a Food Law is in line with Article 46 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Regulation No 178/2002. which regulates the legal personality of the Agency and in paragraph 2 provides that the Agency has the property of a legal person and that it enjoys the highest powers conferred on legal persons in all countries. Article 30 of the Proposal for a Food Law was to be harmonised. Thus, this regulation provides for the agency to be subordinated to the ministry and according to the Law on the State Administration System of the "National Journal" No. 190/03. Ministrys are state administration bodies as well as such cannot be in a superior position in relation to an institution that has the property of a legal person whose establishment and structure is governed by the Law on Institutions. According to Regulation No 178/2002. The members of the Governing Council shall be appointed according to the criteria of ensuring the highest standards of expertise, the broad range of appropriate experience and the maximum possible geographical representation and shall not be limited to the number of representatives of individual institutions proposed in the draft law, except for the share of consumer representatives and the competent authority. The EU legislation has clearly defined the share of consumer representatives in the Governing Council. The bill opens the possibility that other stakeholders in the food chain may take their seats. Article 130(2) of the re-election for the appointment of the Director and the Deputy Director has no justification because the draft law has not been implemented conceptual changes to the Croatian Food Agency which would require or are about the establishment of a new body, which turns out to be a policy, and the policy should at least be in this bill and concern this law. I will try to underline some views from the report of the Committee on Agriculture. By supporting the adoption of this law by a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, she pointed out that he gave a second approach and greater responsibility to both food business operators and those who oversee, control or manage the risk. How can we take this recommendation seriously when we know that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has no measures to sanction the unprofessional appearance of business entities on the Croatian market. Implementingly, even though the applicant explained the reasons for the adoption of the law, he pointed out that compliance with the EU provision 178/2002 was carried out in the debate that there is no explicit need for this by the European Commission. It follows that the law does not have the support of the E-neighbour, the European Commission, which is contrary to the emergency procedure. Furthermore, the further discussion took the view that this law should provide for such a role of the Food Agency to be a fully independent body of industrial and political interests. Open for rigorous public checks and scientifically authoritative. According to the opinion given in the debate, this law does not show, primarily from the provisions concerning the definition of the management of the Croatian Food Agency. If the independence of the Food Agency is not guaranteed, but also expertise, then this law does not make sense, nor should it be passed because the quality of food will determine industrial or political interests or personal earnings rather than the protection of consumers and food quality. The principle note was also made that no matter how good this law is, it will not produce results if the implementing rules are delayed as was the case for a large number of regulations under the 2003 Food Act. There is above all a need to have such regulations that will regulate the most important issue of the law, which is the licensing of laboratories that are now in Croatia only 6. The adoption of sub-legislative acts should allow this law to be summed up and implemented. That's it. The implementing rules are otherwise, otherwise no criminal provisions will be applicable although we have them. Some members of the Committee point out that the application of provisions relating to novel food, GMO food and GMO food may allow for large imports of such foods and endanger organic agricultural production. It is indicated that the existence and use of GMO food and GMO products cannot be denied but should only be used to help health. And for food production, priority should be given to integrated agricultural production. I don't know what food GMOs can help health when we know that in the world the spear of the world's greatest experts is broken from whether GMOs are at all, whether they are healthy for humans at all, and whether they should be used for humans at all, because they have not been investigated or tested enough, let alone to serve health. We also have a report from the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Where they also warn of the fact that the food control system has been in place for decades under the health system, and this law confers powers and part of the activities of the Ministry of Health and Social Care into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Thus, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has no influence in the legislative procedure, and the loan of the laboratory is determined without the opinion of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and there is no supervision and control in the Croatian Food Agency. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, the opinion of the Committee members, should play a key role in the Commission with the EU institutions responsible for this area, as well as in the control and functioning of the entire system. However, in the implementation of the law and further division of jurisdiction and responsibilities, the role of the Ministry of Health and Social Care must be strengthened where they go with their amendments. I think what we've shown so far, there are some illogicalities that this law should go to another reading. That there's no need for urgency. Because this is primarily not political law or this is a political decision. I think there's no reason for either HDZ or SDP or HNS or HSS or HSP to think differently than to protect the interests of our citizens and to adopt a quality Food Act for the sake of the interests of our new generations. So I think we should go to another reading and I will ask for it in front of the Croatian People's Party. However, I must try to show you two examples from history. One from the past, and one very close answer from the minister. '44. In Italy, the U.S. Army produced a cookie containing 70 percent protein. When the army ate it, it had no energy or power because that cookie was made from sheep's runes. And he had 70% protein. It can't be determined by any laboratory, any tests or anything. It can only be found to be sheep and protein. And what's going on? Normally in a human organism, he can't be digested. So you're basically eating a board. I'm afraid that even today, in our production, we have similar ways because grinding food, farmed cattle, is not possible to determine which parts of meat it is, but is only possible to determine from what variety? Is it from the pig, is it from the veal, is it from the sheep? And whether it's an asshole or a tail or a skin or a wool or a hair it's not possible to determine at all. And I'm afraid it doesn't happen to us and that out of imports, it's exactly the kind of food we don't get planted as a state that's not well-organized and it doesn't know how to protect our citizens' interests well. And so this question that is my colleague, I will now read it to you, which my colleague asked the minister a very simple question: "How many samples of laboratories at the border do they take at the borders of Croatia annually?" In River 419 samples. On Gorican 82 samples. In Table 113 samples. Macelj and these border crossings go up to 1,000 food clippers a day." I ask you how much food enters Croatia that does not take a sample or it can be controlled and which is feedback if, for example, that customs station in the Holes sends it to some customs establishment in Osijek or Zadar and if they have the conditions there to control that food. And you know what the conditions are? If he had a saw, to rip off a piece, I don't know frozen meat. Or if he had a fridge to put some can in the fridge so he could send it back for analysis. That's why I think this law is too serious, that he's not political at all. That we all share the same interest here, that Prime Minister Sanader, the President of the State, colleagues and colleagues of you and I have all the same interest that our children and grandchildren eat healthy food and in the future I think this law should go to another reading and try to do the best we can for the benefit of all of us and I don't think that the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Agriculture should have anything to do with it because there's no special haste or urgency to do this. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party's position is clear. We're looking for a second reading to make this law as effective as possible. We say in Dalmatia that the man and the cargo know more, and if more people discuss this and the public debate is held I think we'll pass a quality and good law, and it would be a shame not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86031	Thank you. Is this proverb also true in reverse order of words? Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Dorotea Pesic Bukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86032	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's just maybe as far as the geographical concept goes, says Mr. Kurt at the border crossing of the Holes. It's not the border crossing of the hole or at the border crossing of the hole. There's no such thing as holes. There's only so much to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86033	Always do. Knowledge is always good to perfect knowledge. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86034	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. Well, look, it's clear to us that the government has a deadline for us to have this Food Act by 31, it came from Brussels. But it's unclear why you've been waiting so long with this law. Why is it not done as it should be done, because this is a very significant law, meaning the Food Act that should be, is the fundamental purpose of protecting people's lives and health. Therefore, a broad public debate was to be held and this law was to be passed in two readings. In fact, this law will apply equally and apply both to the maid of honor and to the PIK Vrbovac and the average consumer. So it's equally applied and applied, and that's what they have to use. So, the puppy from the salary, PIK Vrbovac and the average consumer of food. Do they understand this text of the law? They don't understand. And they should use it. Here’s an article on the fifth, so the maid will need to apply food regulations, so when she deals with food production, consider both existing international standards and those that are being prepared. Do you even know what you wrote here? So that's how this should be applied and applied, but when we saw that this is essentially a literal translation of the directives and other legal provisions of the European Union, then we realize that this text, when translated, probably does not understand it either by the translator and by who wrote it. And how they'll know how to use it and spend a crying maid, an average consumer, and all of us here when he's incomprehensible. It is about the translation of the literal directive and other legal provisions of the European Union from English and so that the one who translated and wrote does not understand matter, and since he does not understand matter then we have received this final product. In fact, even the syntagma and translation style is totally English. It's a Syntagma and a syntax of Anglican. Look at the first article, and you'll understand. This law regulates the basis for ensuring a high level of health protection, consumer interest, in relation to food, taking into account specific, in particular, differences in food supply and everything else. You see, it's been visible from the beginning what style it is. So, the literal half translation, the English translation that no one understands it in the end. And it is already systematic that we get from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, and really the Government needs to make sure that we finally do in every ministry that they have no opportunity and personnel to make a team of lawyers and experts and translators who, when they are dealing with the translation of the Directive and with the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union, then it must be done so that they understand it and know what it is and simulate it to know how and how it will be implemented. Because if we pass laws like this, and I refer to both the maid and the PIK Vrbovac and all those dealing with it means not only food production, but food-related and food-related. Therefore, we also appeal and propose that, regardless of the deadline of 31st, this law be sent to another reading because I do not know how the committee, the legislation, how we will at all carry out the editorial and all that is necessary, because it is impossible how these are set, what are the dictions of sentences, what are the sets of sentences, which are all indeterminates. And basically, if we take the screening results for the past year, it is evident that we do not include all the regulations in this, nor the legal gains of the European Union because the results of the “Sfinge” were quite devastating for this part of the ministry. And now another dispute is opening as a conflict between the two ministries, which was also on the boards in the Croatian Parliament. So, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. In fact, it is a conflict between two lobbies, two inspections, veterinary and sanitary inspections who will be in charge because then the rules of the game are known. These are the bad solutions that general inspections consisted of either ministry of one, or the ministry of the other, because then it goes after that people's "caddies and sues caddies and judges". Our position is clear and unequivocal. All inspections must be separate within the framework of the State Inspectorate which will be linked to the Prime Minister and then there will be a completely different situation both in implementation and in supervision. How can an inspection do anything if the minister doesn't let her do it? If this is set aside as a Swedish case, the Swedish example of inspection is independent and then it will be quite different and better results and we will have a better guarantee for the application and implementation of all laws and for protection in this case, both consumers and all entities, i.e. that we know that we eat healthy and healthy food. There's also this question of the lab and everything else. According to us at the HSP club, this should be made in a completely different way that these certificates will primarily be given by an authorised laboratory that will be designated by the Government, and in the second degree it will be supervised by inspectors. Because if the inspector participates together with the lab in the first degree there then there are possible various machinations and all the other things we've heard from colleagues before as soon as possible in this area happens. Not to talk about this delay in the KASAP system and everything else. So that's enough reason to really refer this law to another reading. Because I can't fix the amendment. It's impossible to fix him when he's so badly made that it's really impossible to fix him. It would only be possible to fix it if the Legislative Committee were to amend, one amendment and replace the whole text of the law with a new text of the law. That would be the only way. But it would also take a long time. And now look at this Food Agency, that's what Mr Pankretic was saying, so for, when he was a minister then he was passed the applicable Food Act. But unfortunately, neither then nor now are those tasks clear. She's got the same assignments she's had before, and now she's got the same assignments. And they might be aware that the Agency is an information collector and a statistical analyst. And we were rightly asked at screening according to our knowledge, and what is the purpose of this agency of yours. What's the point of the Food Agency? As just a name he speaks should have both a role and a task and everything else, not a mere gatherer of information and a statistical analyst. So I think it's illusory that anything we try to fix in something that's incorrigible. The only solution is to refer this law regardless of this time limit from the European Union to another reading. And so it'll be clear and understandable. That the rules of the game will be set, there will be clear rules of the game and will understand it because it is applied I say on behalf of the Croatian Party club the same rights to the maid of wages, PIK Vrbovec and others, and Lactalis will also be applied to the average consumer. If they don't understand him, we don't understand him either. We also talked to colleagues from other parties who also believe that this is a very bad law, mainly in that part of the translation, misunderstandings of neither content nor text, and it is contrary to the legal rules of legislation in Croatia. So we go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86035	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86036	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Food Act. I would start by finding that food safety is a national issue. I would also like to stress that from the time of Dr. Andrija Printar, to this day health care insurance has always been a key priority of public health. That our food safety system has been in place and so far it has been impeccable to prove that, in peace and in the Homeland War, we have not had any major epidemics or excesses, and with certain crisis situations, we have always urgently organised ourselves, horizontally and vertically co-ordination of all administrative and supervisory bodies involved in the system at national and local level. Since I have done the work of a sanitary inspector for most of my working life, and in the last few years I have been in charge of the Institute of Public Health for all my colleagues throughout Croatia, I am obliged to look back on the achievements and organisation of a public health food safety system where we envy a much more developed country than our own. Health has taken responsibility for the health of the population, and the principles of a rich public health tradition have built a network of the Public Health Institute. A sanitary inspection has also been established that connects the disease prevention and control system with the system of food health control and environmental risk monitoring. The health care system includes education of people who come to work in contact with foods, epidemiological surveillance of these persons, laboratory control of the health regularity of foods, or food, reporting and processing of patients, as well as the processing of food and water epidemics. Furthermore, the health care system includes the making of rules and standards of health and a number of other activities which together make up an effective system for ensuring food health and consumer health. 250 sanitary inspectors of different professions, from doctors, sanitary engineers, food biotechnology, chemists, have fully met all the requirements put before them by good preventive health practice and can fully meet all the requirements that the EU puts before inspection control of the production, distribution and consumption of food. Sanitary inspection of the health supervision of the extreme parts of the chain, so-called the motto from field to table, which means in distribution, sale, service and catering, I would say the most significant value to the consumer health care system, i.e. the last barrier that ensures that consumers consume safe and healthy proper food. Certainly, new trends in production and processing, distribution and consumption of food and conditions and lifestyle necessarily require different approaches to food safety and a clear approach from this law, which is a well-known motto from field to table. I would briefly comment on the provisions of this law and I would say that the law provides for all the principles of the European food hygiene package. Therefore, the food business operator has primary responsibility for ensuring the health of food, the introduction and application of HASAP and the application of good hygiene practice. A field-to-table control system shall be established. The risk assessment shall be separate from the risk management process. Traceability in food business, etc. is established. etc. So we've heard all about it from the State Secretary in the opening statement, so I don't want to repeat it now. However, by reading in detail the proposal of the Food Act on behalf of the HDZ Club, I must express my satisfaction with the proposed legislative solutions, but also with certain disagreements with certain provisions. Thus, Article 28 on the system of the Management Board of the Food Agency states that it is impossible to distinguish which ministry has more stakes in food security matters, whether it is the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Health. I wouldn't be opening a topic right now if it were better if the competent authority were the Ministry of Health like that. in Germany, Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, due to the overall role played by the Ministry of Health in the history of Croatian health and because health in the first place is human, consumer and health of the nation. But it's a political decision and we're not getting into it. But once again, we stress that the responsibility for food safety is equal to that of both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, and therefore we believe that the Governing Council as well as the Advisory Council should be represented by two representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. In Article 52 concerning the registration and approval of objects, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the objects subject to approval shall be laid down by the implementing regulation adopted by the head of the competent authority. We believe that since these facilities will include facilities from the Ministry of Health's jurisdiction, the implementing regulation would be adopted with the agreement of the Minister of Health. Furthermore, Article 54(1) and Article 56 of the register of approved bodies and powers for the adoption of implementing rules, so that, analoguely, Article 52 and here, the Ministry of Health must participate in the drafting of implementing rules, more so as to stress that the importance of the uniform implementation of those rules is, and nowhere does it appear, that the regulation must be adopted by one body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication At first, I highlighted the important role of the Public Health Institute in the entire food safety system. By investing in equipment and personnel laboratories of the Institute, they have reached envious standards, and some are higher and accredited according to European standards or are in the accreditation phase. So far, they have had conditions that must be met by the Ministry of Health, which is logical, since in the laboratories of the Institute, the health correctness of the foods and the subject of general use has been controlled. It is also illogical for me that the Minister of Agriculture determines the conditions to be met by the laboratories of the Institute of Public Health and empowers them for official controls, thus moreover, the fact that this law establishes that the Ministry of Health must establish monitoring for its area of competence, must provide monitoring means, and should probably also authorise laboratories for its official controls. So let me get this straight. By adopting the necessary amendments, we can have a good food law, a law in line with European Union legislation, a law that will ensure the traceability of food safety from half to table, a more effective system of control and the ultimate protection of consumer health and the HDZ club supports its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86037	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Honorary Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86038	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a food law is aligned with the legal legislation of the Member States of the European Union, i.e. with the new regulations adopted in the European Union after 2003. The existing Food Act, which was adopted in 2003, was in line with all the regulations of the European Union that were then in force, but after that, the European Union adopted new regulations which now require additional and extensive harmonisation of the existing law with them, including genetically modified food, animal food, and then category so-called. New food and a new system of safe food, so-called Security package. The negotiations in Chapter 12 of food safety, veterinary and fitness sanitary policy, as well as Chapter 11 of agriculture and rural development, attach particular importance to harmonisation in this area, which is likely to ensure uninterrupted negotiations. This law also gives greater authority to the Food Agency, establishes a system of rapid alerting, crisis management and emergency management, and creates assumptions that official controls are carried out effectively and rationally and that the problem of possible conflict of interest is determined... In this proposal for a law, it would be the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy, then the geographical indications, the traditional reputation of the origin of food, and the way and registration of those products are prescribed. [[You don't understand.]] In the opinion of the HSLS Club, it is good that Article 1 of this Act, i.e. paragraph 3 which states, among other things, that the law will not apply to primary production intended for personal use in households and the preparation and storage of food in households intended for personal consumption. It is quite clear that our small households could not meet the criteria laid down by this law, which is more than strict in some provisions. This means that our households will continue production, produce food for personal use in a traditional way so that there is no danger to our cheese and cream. Article 3 of this final draft of the law on the meaning of certain concepts under the terms of the competent authority, states only the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy as the central body of the state administration responsible for the health, hygiene and quality of food, food for animals, the organisation of official controls and which constitutes a point of contact with the European Commission. In the 2003 law, the competent authorities also included risk management bodies, which were then the Croatian Food Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the Ministry of Health. It is good to talk about this proposal... and to talk about health care, hygiene and food quality, and to determine exactly the responsibility for these problems. In this proposal for the law, there is a provision that the Croatian Food Agency and the competent authority, i.e. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy shall cooperate to promote the effective integration of risk assessment functions, risk management and risk notification when it comes to food regularity, which shows that the Ministry of Health has been completely removed as an institution that should also cooperate in this area. But what can cause one particular question here, to say from this law from 2003, when the competent authorities, which were at risk, were then mentioned by the Croatian Food Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy and the Ministry of Health, how this new provision now corresponds to white paper on foot safety, is the European Commission document which served as a basis for the creation of the European Food Act, i.e. Regulation No 178/2002 of the European Community. It is said in Chapter 4 of that document that, it is stated that food risk assessment bodies must be independent of industrial and political interests, further that they must be open to rigorous and public checks and scientific-authoritative. Furthermore, special attention in this white paper is said to be given to the selection of the head of the risk assessment body in view of the need for its independence, again in Chapter 4 of that white paper. According to the proposed draft Food Act, in Article 30 of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall appoint among the candidates proposed by the Head of the Competent Authority, meaning the Minister of Agriculture after the public tender has been carried out. The question really arises whether this new provision of this bill, is contrary to this white paper. I'm saying I'm not going to prejudge anything, I'm just saying here I'm asking this question that was suggested to me from our food agency that we should ask the proposer. Furthermore, the possibility should be considered that the Ministry of Health, as an institution, continues to cooperate with those bodies in promoting effective linkage and risk function, is considered by the HSLS club, then manages risk and information when it comes to the correctness of food and food for animals, and that the knowledge of its experts would certainly contribute to an adequate assessment of safety because it is nevertheless human health and the regularity of food that one without another does not go. This proposal gives the Food Agency the obligation to give several types of scientific advice and opinions whether it concerns human nutrition, non-food and food products, and animal health and welfare issues. We don't think we're going to expect one agency that has an operational and implementing function to do the most health work. In our opinion, the team should be engaged in the Food and Biotechnology Faculty and their institutes in Osijek and Zagreb, and certainly a smaller agency, and the agency should exclusively deal with consumer protection against poor and paved products and be operational and establish criteria by which something can be produced, or imported, declared and placed on the market. The question should be asked what about the determination of pesticides in fruits and vegetables, in markets and who will carry out those analyses. Article 7(1) of this Act states that, in specific circumstances, where, after an assessment of the information available, the possibility of adverse effects on health is identified, but that there are scientific doubts can be taken... the necessary risk management measures necessary to ensure the maximum level of health protection, to obtain further scientific information necessary for the overall risk assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our opinion in the club the term can be changed into a morale, this condicional is very, always undefined and we think that here it is better to stand an imperial form in order to reduce every risk to the least possible measure and to prevent even the least harmful human health positions. In our opinion, Article 10 should be defined more precisely and should be classified as mandatory by the competent authority to inform the public of any risk, its nature and its possible impact on human health and, accordingly, to take appropriate actions. In particular, reference should be made to the provision of this proposal for a law concerning genetically modified food and genetically modified feed for animals. It should certainly be commended for the provision that requires that all food and ingredients and contents of genetically modified organisms must be marked separately and visiblely with the label "this product originates from genetically modified organisms". However, since such similar labels are written most often with barely visible letters, and we all need more or less glasses to read, it would be good to consider the possibility of packaging, i.e. the packaging of such products shall be marked with a symbol of recognizable colour that would immediately indicate that it is a product containing genetically modified organisms. This Law provides for the Croatian Food Agency to be used by a laboratory to detect these organisms, which we believe is good, because this will certainly improve and facilitate market surveillance of products containing these genetically modified organisms. However, what NGOs warn about is the lack of a provision in the labelling of food containing these organisms, which does not include livestock or, unfortunately, does not deal with the problem of importing genetically modified seeds. The release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, e.g. Genetically modified seed in our opinion is a major problem and is dealing with traditional organic farming that should somehow be our priority. It is good that this Law lays down provisions that provide for the possibility that food can be awarded a mark of traditional reputation, originality and geographical origin which has not been used so far, and that, as such, it can be registered on our own, not only our own, but even on the market. What we do not think is good, which is that this law provides for a large number of implementing rules for which implementation is foreseen for a period of 2 years, which when the law is to be implemented in practice really in our opinion one too long period and should certainly be reduced, here we propose for a year as for example. what happened in the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary, and otherwise we feel that we are giving support to this Proposal of the Law exactly and to see how much it is still its, here in the future we are getting warnings that this proposal for a law is not fully in line with the regulation of the European Community No. 178/2002, so let's see if this is really about someone... some political intervention, as suggested by the Croatian Food Agency or indeed remains transparent and guaranteed, that food risk assessment bodies are independent of industrial and political interests and that any risk assessment must be, have the possibility of public rigorous checks and must be scientific, authoritative in order to reduce any risk to a minimum at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But even so, I say the HSLS club gives support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86039	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me take a few of my thoughts out on this Food Act. I warmly believe that we are passing this law for our own sake, not for the sake of the European Union. Assuming there shouldn't be any dilemma. Obviously, in such thinking, we accept the current challenges that are ahead of us, and that we are in fact an actual analysis of the situation in which we are currently in place of all the set of implementing rules that are in force, which are not actually implemented. We don't have a previous analysis. In fact, why hasn't the Food Act come to life so far? Which is why our Food Agency didn't live up to the end of the story and where it was supposed to actually control quality and be in the function of domestic production and dispute the "x" products that came to our markets? Personally, I think the law is about perception and effort in the sense that domestic production is really high-level and protected. But I think that's the task of relevant institutions. Now we're talking about the agency and this establishment of this, about the control of a competent body that will control food safety, right on imported food and the inability of everything and everything to get in. Namely if, and for the first time in the Republic of Croatia we are trying to train the manufacturer and actually give him one responsibility so-called. self-control where he would really be a participant in production and one in the chain of the most responsible participants. I now, and I've asked that before, how far have we progressed in this regard? And in fact, who is it that the institutions and who we have prepared, that the agricultural producer, for example a vegetable or fruit farmer, a warlord or a cattleman, could guarantee us that its production was made, but really in that appropriate way? Namely, here I warn all of us that we have missed the time of adjustment, education, education through the seminar, through the lecture I do not know in what way, that in fact all those participants in production must be trained to do so, have certain certificates. And of course, they guarantee by their knowledge production, that's it. The assumption that there's a big business ahead of us and that we have to do it otherwise self-control, because of self-control, there's no belief in someone's word if it's not qualified for that production, there's nothing. So, it's not for the sake of others, it's for itself, training as an imperative, and it's in one favourable way where the state has to get involved, where we have to, where we all have to be participants together and know how to do it. In order to ensure that this segment of agricultural or livestock production of any production actually succeeds and that this chain ensures that the food produced either by plant or animal origin is properly fed, what the European Union is looking for, that it is well-teamed by the good lord. And that in the end we eat healthy food. Now that I'm saying it from the perspective of us, that adjustment I see they go slow, that they're actually late. This law actually imposes all this together, and here, in order for us not to be too late, we need to act really quickly and efficiently. If we do this analysis quickly and how many such manufacturers we actually have that have certificates, believe me, in the European Union and in fact, our adjustments have fallen and we don't move on. That's one of those priorities. Now, for whom this production is interesting. I don't think it's interesting for Europeans, but just for us to have security... the side of our population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that all this stuff that comes from outside, as little as it comes and our food floods our market. And that is why I welcome in this law the part where for personal needs and limited quantities can be made under special conditions, a rule that becomes a minister in the way that it is prescribed. I'm speaking for the public now, in fact, of what the perception of the public is, that everything is forbidden to us, and nothing is allowed. This is also the condition of these few articles that say that our traditional production for our traditional needs is guaranteed and can continue to be produced. Clearly, in limited quantities, not for export. And if it's for exporting, clearly it has to be regional or branded, but by some name. And it's got to have other clues entirely. So this law is certainly made for future time. However, in the present time, we are facing such adjustments and in fact so much work that I personally think it is better not to prejudge the application of that law, the year I speak, or the application of the various regulations that await us there. In fact, we've already extended our meat industry, and all of these food industries that HasAP has two more years to do, because there's no means or people, in the end, no education, no educated staff. There's something else that's important. I'm asking an open question now, is the supervision of this law, the inspection services are up to control? That's the basic problem that comes to us. And the legislative body orders and brings a framework and orders the executive body to implement it. However, it falls under regulation and control, in fact, inspection. In fact, we don't realize that the state is sacred, that it's the state inspectors who are actually the ones who follow the law to the end and that there's no yes or no, did you reach that level or didn't you reach that level? And unfortunately for us, we can count the inspectors who can do it to the end. And actually, behind which is the institution of inviolability of his duty. And that's why, when modestly our proposings also write that inspectors, that inspectors must know the proper laws, regulations, etc., that they must know their powers under these laws, but also the obligations that these laws impose, lack and enforce without debate. If this implementation is scheduled then this law is again a dead letter on paper, although it had good intentions and actually gave one indication and a guarantee of the safety and health of food, about the guarantee that we are all responsible from manufacturer to consumer. And finally, consumers can do self-control by themselves because they know exactly how and how. While the declaration is just a declaration and it's not really the act that speaks about the correctness of food and actually guarantees that it's food and health and produced the way it must be then it's just stories and actually implementation doesn't hurt us. Here, in this sense, I express one dose of my criticism in a way that this is difficult to implement in the work, very difficult, especially under current conditions and in the way our inspection services and all together in that chain are organised. But if there is a good will to introduce order from the beginning to the end and all participants bear their share of responsibility then this law has a chance and could make sure that this health-regularity of any origin is also at an envious level, and this is not just the point of how little it has been said there, but it is, in fact, the whole time, the goal for consumers to have food safety all the time and the guarantee that the product they consume is healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86041	Replica's esteemed representative, Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kolar, I agree with you for speaking now. And when you asked whether food inspectors were able to carry out their work, of course, we had to ask ourselves all such a question, but with the support of the competent institutions, police, customs services, it is certain that they would be much easier to carry out their work, and then the responsibility of each individual of these inspectors would be even higher and things would not happen to us as they happened before there were not 20 days when in one field, so in one hole they found a number of bones and I don't know the skin to determine that this animal came from Romania.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86043	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86044	Well, I agree, but I dare say that there needs to be much more political will, that there should be another way of understanding the inspection service of its responsibility, but also of the citizens to whom this so-called "supervised" applies. Repression that they must feel their share of responsibility on their backs. I am now talking about a society that is responsible, which everyone in their segment actually corresponds to both materially and morally and then in every way inspection services are easily doing their job. However, when the situation in society is such that inspection services are on the sidelines or in the service of a potential person, it is difficult to expect their progress and that they might actually be effective. And it's actually a real story and it's supposed to open it in an open way, not to hide in fact why someone can't do some surveillance or that surveillance to a single border comes and falls to you because it simply has a powerful man who can cancel all this money together and doesn't actually get the right result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86045	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86046	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian Food Act, which was adopted in 2003, entered into force on 30 July that same year. As this law only partially complies with Regulation 178 of the European Union, full compliance with the same requirement for certain corrections, additions, definitions etc. It is almost excessive to repeat how sensitive matter is directly related to human life and health. Food is now distributed from the end to the end of the planet relatively quickly and is then assumed by the possibility of spreading food - transmitted diseases. These challenges and many others require a constantly new approach to the problem. The implementing rules have been adopted under the Food Act and also the basis of the Law on livestock farming and the Veterinary Law, making up an impressive list of the competences of the two ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture, the forestry and the water economy, as well as the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Negotiations with the European Union on the area of agriculture and food safety impose the need for further harmonisation of the Food Law. So-called a package of food hygiene measures introduces some new principles as primary responsibility for ensuring the health of food has a food business operator. All aspects of food production make up a continuous chain and any element can affect the health correctness of food, control, the control system cannot be based solely and exclusively on the control of the final product because it does not guarantee health regularity. The data collected and their analysis are essential for identifying hazards and risks. Of course, all this and far more requires a qualified and effective inspection, but also, above all, laboratory controls emphasized not only the final product but the entire chain of production. It's something that, in our practice with honorable exceptions, was mostly unapplicable. And the consequences of such incomplete control or control of each part of the production chain can be inconspicuous. But when it comes to food control, its health care is no less important than the inspection service has already been said. Inspectors must be qualified, trained, effective. It's not easy, it requires perhaps a far greater number of inspectors. This requires more information from the inspector, above all correct information to the public, professional explanation, responsible explanation, advice from all stakeholders, which is not in accordance with the EU's principles on food safety covered by Regulation 178. Let's say, a clear quote by purpose and area of law. Control is based on the control of the final product, the precautionary principle is not defined. One food safety authority must be designated in order to effectively implement the EU Regulation hygiene package. The food law is harmonised with the legislation of the Member States of the European Union. In the light of the above, one Regulation lists a Council Regulation on agricultural and food products as guaranteed by traditional specialities. It is possible that exactly the harmonisation of the law with this regulation to the outset of the cards and arguments if these are at all adjudications and arguments to some euro skeptics at the border of disaster, all set by jumbo posters when it comes to food and agricultural products as traditional specialities. In the opening part of the debate, I mentioned that it is a highly sensitive substance which also confirms the definition of the food of the day in Article 2 of the proposed law, any substance or product processed, partially processed or unprocessed and intended for consumption or can reasonably be expected to be consumed by people. But the concept of food also includes drinking, chewing gum, water being built into food. Then water for drinking from public water supply and mineral, table or spring water, all of this packed. In Chapter 2 of the principle of transparency, Articles 9 and 10 shall discuss public debate and publicity. Article 14 provides that incorrect food is not allowed to be placed on the market and when is food considered to be invalid? The power to adopt implementing rules on food shall be conferred on the head of the competent authority and, in some cases, by the Minister responsible for Health with the consent of the head of the competent authority. The law is good, the law is, the bill of law, the law is comprehensive. It requires implementing rules and, of course, requires implementation without environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86047	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So here on behalf of the club I would say some concrete things about the law primarily in the part that it refers to food safety and the one that has been most said in recent times, which is from field to table. There is no one here, I would say more specifically, so now I want to highlight here two very important chapters that are mentioned in this law, and that is the chapter of the mark of traditional food reputation and designation of originality, the designation of geographical origin of food. Personally, I think they're put here because they belong in this food law package, and they're extremely important. These two chapters in the future will be decided I would say in the direction in which Croatian agriculture will go. I was recently in Italy in a province where I was just at a presentation of food, products that have in one province 263 of these products. Which is a protected origin of geographical, which is a traditional aspect of food. They're from me I'd say the tinyst bits, those little buns that are kind of rounded up in one side because they're preparing differently and so on. Unfortunately, we all know that we have two, three products that are now protected in that section. Unfortunately, there's too little work in that section. I think we should warn here very clearly that this area is now not only left here in the law and allow it to be implemented in practice. And what is important will not be implemented in practice if we do not have specific support for this primarily of that part of the Ministry dealing with rural development with certain concrete measures. So all of what we are doing here today according to certain legal proposals must definitely be followed to receive the most concrete support in certain things. We know that unfortunately we have good examples in certain counties. I can point out here Zagreb County which has made several such projects where we have come to the wish "lactec", wine "portugizac", Samobor salami and several other products that are protected in this way but I would say that Zagreb County is one of the exceptions. It would be good to have many counties in Croatia that have one hundred or two hundredths like those in Italy because I fear that tomorrow when we come and when the door of the European Union is open, some of our traditional products that are with us, we will be surprised that they will already be protected in some European country or don't give God to some of our neighbours. I think we should work here spotlessly, quickly. The law here has defined both chapter and chapter 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of But I think it's going to have to have the largest possible support of the ministry, the county and certainly cities and municipalities here. So here I think a little bit in that part I think it was necessary to mention it. There was no way I could have mentioned it in this debate on behalf of the club. What I'm trying to say right now is something that shouldn't happen to you, something that's bad, and I would also say it's in one part and it applies to this Food Act, and it primarily refers to the Law on genetically modified organisms that certainly directly entangles this law because we know that those transitional and final provisions are said that if certain provisions are contrary to the Law on modified organisms with the Food Act to suspend them. It's a bit of a weird article. I would say that it takes a little bit stronger to define it or to specify explicitly which articles are to be clear in these things. Why do I think this is extremely problematic? A little bit of a colleague has been prepared for me and made a certain analysis of what has been done so far? I must unfortunately say the Law on genetically modified organisms is I must make it a little rougher to express a dead letter on paper. He's not having fun. Of the 6 regulations, some of the existing rules to be adopted in this section means only 6. 12 implementing rules have not been passed, and when we see this whole situation almost out of order. What's going on here? Then it's, I mean, weird is one situation that's happening to us, and I'm just going to read the fact that there wouldn't be any speculation. Dr Nenad Lamer, Assistant Minister of Health and Social Care in front of the Croatian Institute of Public Health where authorised laboratories for GMO analysis show that of the 1214 samples there were 113 positive foods of which 33 had more than 0.9 GMOs. Officially, it means nothing is made up, but it's the official statistics that Mr. Lamer made up. Now there's a question. It means that it is good for such products in Croatia we have nothing regulated so that they can enter. We have nowhere to say which are even institutions that might allow it. We don't have a register in that area anywhere. So they can only be kind of covered in Hravtsk and so on. I'd say this particular example leaves too much hole. We shouldn't be passing certain laws. We should not define ourselves here in Parliament without very clear deadlines in these implementing acts. I think it is, and we're all here when we talked about GMOs especially about this GMO that's being introduced into the environment of organisms but also about GMOs, we were very critical. We know about the actions of our counties that tend to have GMOs free of county, and I almost think that 7, 8 declared them related to the introduction of GMOs into space, but I think these things warn us too. Is it clear here to define, force in a certain way those in charge of this part? This applies most directly to the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for the part of GMOs, GMOs because the competences here are very clearly demarcated. But I think that part also requires the influence of the Ministry of Agriculture to see what is done in that part, why such things happen and what is necessary to make this law come to life. I wanted to show, on a concrete law relating to this Food Act, that no matter how we define here in Parliament certain legal regulations if they are not applied in practice, then that law is the only law I would say pro-forme for whatever it is. In that part, I warn that and regarding the Food Act, it is necessary to define very clearly those general principles which are stated here. But it is primarily full of responsibility to the competent authority to take full responsibility for the implementation of such a law. If the competent body does not, it is so popularly said to expand its capacities in such a way that it can absorb everything that is stated in the law then we all know what will happen to this law, will we, for a short time, discuss it as here I am currently discussing the Law on genetically modified organisms. If this were to happen, we are running out of time and I'm afraid it would be extremely bad for all of us, and especially for our consumers and those food consumptions that are here in some way right to worry about what they consume, which they eat because we all know that the occurrences of some of these diseases that have come from cow madness, of all those diseases that have happened in Europe and all those problems that have been with food and the delinquent and all those things where we have really certain dangers that this fear is justified, that we all need to take care of it. But when we define certain things, then we should still have a certain guarantee that certain things will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86049	Replica's esteemed representative, Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pankretic, I think at the right moment, pointed out what might be waiting for us in terms of genetically modified food, or genetically modified organisms. However, I think it may be in this proposal that you have just said to your colleague Pankretic that it might be good for him to eat a little bit more in this law, in your opinion, as former agriculture minister on this particular subject. So, genetically modified food and how to protect yourself from the entry of genetically modified food into our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86051	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86052	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us one of the unusually important laws, a food law that is of quality because it harmonizes our very complex legislation with the recommendations of the European Union and definitely needs to be observed in this context. The Food Act regulates one of the most sensitive areas, areas that occasionally conflict between manufacturers, between suppliers and food consumers. The conflict of interest therefore consists of, in the conflict of interest of the producer and supplier who wants to place food on the market because of the material interest of the health barrier on the other hand, which should ensure that such economic interest is not caused by poor public health consequences due to abuse or accidental failures. This system should also look at this law based on Council of Europe Regulation 178 of 2002 which has clearly shown that each country, a future member, as Croatia or the current member state as other countries, should lay down the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the interests of consumers in relation to food by ensuring the effective functioning of the market. Therefore, the regulation expects one harmony between an effective market on the one hand and protection in one word of national health on the other. The Republic of Croatia has a long tradition in this because it has had in its health system a whole series of subjects who have cared for decades. So, not only in the time of the Croatian Republic but also later, for decades we have cared about folk health and in this we have a great tradition and we are famous in the world. Let us remember Andrija Printar, one founder of the World Health Organization, whose idea is the beginning of the future Institute of Public Health, which we formed in the early 1990s at the county and state level, the entire system of sanitary inspection, etc. The conflict between the manufacturer on the one hand and their interest and sanitary inspection takes place every few years cyclically. We had such a conflict in the early 1990s when the State Inspectorate was formed and there was a strong demand for the sanitary inspection to be included in that State Inspectorate. We gave this strong resistance and managed to keep the sanitary inspection autonomous, because we felt that otherwise we would give the fox the right to keep the chicken, which means that a sanitary inspection would enter the economic sector. There, too, gradually melted the barrier between the interest of manufacturers and suppliers on the one hand and of course health on the other hand would probably be completed. Of course, the result would be the negative state of the public in this regard. Sanitary inspection, public health services, their labs with great experience. So Croatia has put in order countries that have not had any major or significant food or water epidemics for decades, and we passed the biggest exam in the Homeland War when in all these most difficult years, conditions of accommodation, millions of refugees and exiles, hundreds of thousands of mobilized soldiers, etc. We have not had any alimony epidemics or intoxications, and this has even entered professional international magazines dealing with war medicine. Of course, we are now facing a new task that means harmonising the requirement with the said Council of Europe Regulation in which we, of course, must make big turns, but at the same time, we must be careful to protect these common traditional interests and not do more harm than good. I think this law, after some misunderstandings between the two resolution ministries, has succeeded. Therefore, in the very definition of certain important factors of this law or important provisions, it is said that according to global health care, an EU-based pardon should be defined by the competent authority. The competent authority shall be a body to communicate, pool all data and communicate with the European Union. In this law, it's the government's decision. The competent authority is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, which is a good solution although it could have been different. There are countries where the competent body of the health ministry. There are countries where the competent authority is some other institution, say, that would fit our Food Agency. It is important that there is one roof body that serves to collect all data and communicate with the European Union. Why the government chose the Ministry of Agriculture is a matter of government. I welcome that decision and I think it can be quality. However, in this system, all those traditional organisations that had within their own framework of the Ministry of Health should be protected, and in that sense there have been some misunderstandings that have been successfully settled today by agreements with, between the two ministries, with the intervention of representatives of this Parliament. And I think that now, by accepting these amendments, the government puts into procedure a quality law that will surely experience some criticism and some changes in the near future, but not important. I'd just like to warn you of a few of those dots that were controversial. It's a matter of handing out jurisdiction amongst other things. A high - quality article is an article in 86, which explicitly states what will be the jurisdiction of which the resistor, or other words, will act as an inspection. And it turns out, for example. the official control of the health and hygiene of food is carried out at the level of primary production of veterinary inspection, food of animal origin. If it's of plant origin, then agricultural inspection. Foods of non-animal origin Sanitary inspection. It is determined that at retail level, the sanitary inspection will carry out surveillance, that each inspection will again cover its own portfolio, meaning at the border on the import of food of animal origin veterinary inspection, food of non-animal origin, sanitary inspection, etc., etc. What was not implemented consistently at first is that this division is systematically monitored both in legislative activity and in some other specifics such as. participation in the work of the Food Agency. I think it is a good thing that these misunderstandings have now been corrected and, for example, the Food Agency will have the same number of representatives in the board of directors from both ministries, the same number of representatives and the advisory board from both ministries. And I also think it's a good idea for the Minister of Health to be introduced into the adoption of sublegal acts. For example, the form, content and manner of keeping registers of registered facilities with the competent authority, so the Minister of Agriculture, will also work in the form of advice and participate as an advisory body and body issuing consent and the Minister of Health. The head of the competent authority will also, in addition to the opinion of the Minister of Health, adopt a series of rules laying down general rules on food hygiene, specific conditions for food hygiene, microbiological and other criteria for placing food on the market, etc. It is also in the amendments accepted by the Government, which will be the government's amendments, and there has been a change in the system of granting official control to the Food Control Laboratory where the Minister of Health will make a proposal when it comes to laboratories that will be used in its work by the sanitary inspection. So that I do not further list this consent which is positive, in any case, I think that with such changes as I would have said we need one law that can be accepted by the European Union equally by all other laws, which will not violate the existing food safety in the Republic of Croatia and that will allow economic operators to put as little burden as possible on inspections and all other food safety specifics on the market equally with other entities in Europe. I therefore believe that the law has succeeded in establishing this balance, and of course certain problems that will arise in the implementation of the law will be solved by the competent authority or by amendments or additions to this law. For this reason, I believe that it should be supported and shown an example of how the European Union can be respected by entering Europe on the one hand, while retaining our traditional values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86053	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86054	Thank you very much. Well, here, maybe a brief thought. Reverend Hebrang, I believe he agrees that above all there must be food safety here, and I think we're all repeating it. I also personally welcome this agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. But again, I will stress, division and responsibility must be above all else because the fairy tale I have is that, because of the vague division or interference of powers, certain positive regulations that are being made but that no agreement can be made in the work. That would be extremely bad. I don't think that's supposed to happen. We know that in the past there have been differences at that level. Surely the respected institutions that were mentioned here are carrying out their part of the work very responsibly, but in any case overlapping certain responsibilities from the past it's been very bad because they haven't implemented certain things, and then we can question what here we can all say, and that's food safety above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86055	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86056	Thank you very much. I agree with everything the honourable representative Pankretic has said. I'd just try to keep this thought going. So he said that food safety is absolutely the greatest importance of this law, we all agreed. But he would also warn that mixing powers or overlapping powers could lead to complications to say the least that could have bad consequences either for health or for human health or perhaps for economic interests. An absolutely complex matter in which so many responsibilities are intertwined, several ministries, several bodies outside ministries such as the agency in which it will be included with a decision by the agency a whole series of institutions and institutions. So one globular body of a whole series of subjects must have a roof point. And that's why it's good that the competent authority is chosen. And this competent authority will believe to coordinate quality and such overlaps or conflicts of jurisdiction in time. Perhaps that is why it would be good to step up and step up co-operation between the two ministries as the most responsible bodies of the state administration, so agriculture and health care, to have constant communication, so that there are no misunderstandings as well as during the drafting of this law, because such misunderstandings could have bad consequences. So it might be good for both ministers to agree on regular meetings or perhaps a joint body to monitor the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86057	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I join those who will support this law. For several reasons, but also under these conditions that we have already heard after these agreements and amendments submitted by our Health Committee. This law actually shows that it is a modern law that is comprehensive, it is detailed and it practically puts food in the center of events. The safety of food, i.e. the safety of consumers who will use this food. He therefore covered all the proceedings, realizing that in 2003 when the Food Law was passed, many implementing rules had not been operational and that it was necessary to take this step in order to actually bring the process started in 2003, so by that first law, in some way to the implementation phase. What's most valuable to me in this new bill of law is this principle of consistency. So it's important to be able to track from the beginning to the end every procedure and in each segment, to establish that path in a very simple way through that identification number where some mistake occurred that could endanger human health. So that's the most important thing. Food must not endanger human health. Another important thing is that the Food Agency has become this headquarters, an institution that will essentially have control over all these processes that have been announced in the first law. However, now that risk assessment and risk notification has been kind of complemented by another, in fact, third segment, which is risk management and it's well worked out and I think that's where a good step has been made. So this law established this hygiene package which is good. It's very well worked out what genetically modified food is that there's no more confusion about it. It must be marked in a prescribed manner and is actually left to the consumer's will to choose or not. What is more important for us in Croatia, the fear that we will lose some of our traditional habits in this process and it is in some way guaranteed that it will be recognised under a certain condition, this traditional way of producing food and that is good. So we'll also have a food register. So that safety will be maximum secured and practically all the participants in the food chain are obliged to perform the continuous control there. So this is kind of the internal control of every procedure, and it's important that in this misunderstanding that was between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture there was this synergy agreement because I think because of this tradition that so far the Ministry of Health is mostly controlled food but in that final part, so now food is controlled from the beginning to the end which is very good and with this respect to these amendments I say that are in line with the Ministry of Agriculture I think it will be good and I support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86059	Thank you. The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86060	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would personally like to see this bill as well as the bill that will follow this, actually go into two readings. Whether we want to or not, we should take care of a few important things. First, this bill, which at first appears to be in line with only the European Union documents, and therefore many give it great importance and great importance. Unlike perhaps the kind of attitude that I appreciate, which I understand and respect, I must say that I belong to those, despite that other circle that considers that this law is primarily important to us because it needs to regulate our relationships, rules and criteria, instruments of evaluation that we will have healthy and quality food for the needs of our population or for the needs of exceptional animal nutrition that we can, of course, also use for the diet of the population related to the production of animal products. Therefore, let us not forget that in the world according to some analyses food is one of the causes of mortality, one or the other is on a scale of those causes that actually call diseases that have a fatal consequence for the population. For reasons of her failure, for reasons of her chemical, biological or other poisoning, and for all these reasons, this law is extremely important. The other thing I'd like to point out is that this whole set of things actually needs to be resolved in my opinion in one place. Unlike many, I don't think the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry or the Ministry of Health should be excluded. They should each be included in their own way, but in this one place probably the Food Agency, in order to practically ensure a whole range of measures and instruments that will be able in a valid way to determine the correctness of food products, food and processing of any biological, animal, or plant origin. Now, you can see, for example, when we say in Article 15 that the head of the competent authority will establish with implementing rules, and it lists everything, then suddenly you see in this article 15. etc., a whole series of things that we can hardly say that the law is then in line with the standards and rules of the European Union, rather than actually being talked about being harmonised only in these implementing rules, because there is a measure of these issues. That's why I think this issue should be further elaborated. Secondly, it should be a little different in terms of substance to place the agency not only from the aspect of the bodies managing the agency but from the aspect of the body actually carrying out inspection and inspection of the processing and processing of food. And in that part, that's where they have to be found. Representatives who, within the Agency, are actually involved in the administrative oversight of the implementation of the laws of this, responsible to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, responsible to the Ministry of Health, each in their jurisdiction. Of course, if this aspect is being watched, then I need to see further that I have some questions about, and some questions that are very confusing to me and that require very serious conversations before making a decision on this law. One of these issues is related among other things to genetically modified organisms or food. We have a special chapter from article 88, as you know, so including up to 94. Before that, however, we have a general provision that says so in Article 5(3). When making and applying food rules, the existing international standards or those in preparation must be taken into account, except where such standards or parts thereof are ineffective or inappropriate to meet the parts set out in the food regulations, etc. Now, look. International standards are also international standards that apply in the European Union, but international standards are also standards that apply on the United States market. They're different. They are much stricter in the European Union than in the American area. And in such a situation, the question is now normally asked, what international standards are we going to apply and which ones are we going to rule out? Of course, if there is a conflict over a particular article, or likely as members and future member of the European Union, to include standards valid for the European Union. But if there are no matches between certain products, food products, competition, then we will apply international standards that apply to imports of food from the United States or I don't know the American area. In a situation like this, we'd like to or not want to. We will put ourselves in a position to actually reduce the criteria that apply to the European Union and slow down on one side. And on the other hand, what is extremely important, our standards under the current Food Protection Act have been even more stringent than they have been in both the US and the European Union. And in a situation like this, we're actually further liberalizing this, and that's a very, very serious question. So in a situation like this, we have to ask a question. And I think that our Health Committee, no matter how much we may have a reservation from the point of view now you know, what... Not jurisdiction, this, that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in view of the content of the objection he made, he has put very justified objections and that need to be dealt with and accounted for. And I think that both this and, among other things, those objections and these amendments would be sufficient in my opinion to further discuss this issue in the second reading before the first reading. Second, what I'd like to mention. I can't count all the articles now, so I'm going to pick just some that I think is very important, for example, Article 13 that talks about international standards, again, and in relation to the article I was talking about, paragraph 5, which is nice, not questioning its rights and obligations, the Republic of Croatia has to, so this is an imperative norm that doesn't give the possibility of a derogation. And now what it must do, contribute to international development, promote coordination, contribute... appropriate, to bring particular attention, to the particular development, financial and commercial needs of developing countries in order to ensure that international standards do not create unnecessary barriers to exports from developing countries. [[You don't understand.]] Dear colleagues, among other things, developing countries through the international community are actually helping them to deliver seeds enriched by GMO standards. The question arises by what international standard? American, European, ours? In such a situation, we suddenly open a large door to import such food that can actually significantly disrupt the quality of what we have defined by law. It is a similar situation and related to other things where it is then shown further as if we are much stricter and we are trying to resolve, for example, the control of objects under Article 52, so it turns out that as many of you have facilities in the economic yard of the family economy or I don't know in the food industry, you will have to control everything and get the relevant data and certain certificates for all. And that, in fact, before that, you had actually closed the door and actually, at the same time through Article 5 of Article 13, you opened up large windows through which industrialized food would enter, which, among other things, includes the question of genetically modified products that are essentially not acceptable to our market. Article 127 is also attached to this, which says, in order to comply with the European Union rules,... The competent authority, i.e. the health minister, with the consent of the head of the competent authority, may, in addition to the regulations provided for in the individual articles of this law, and see as far as possible, adopt other implementing rules necessary for the implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now watch out. You must see this in the context of Articles 5 and 13. In Article 5, paragraph 3 applies certain international standards. In Article 13, you prescribed that developing countries that produce food, you must allow them to import those foods. And now all of a sudden, you're empowering implementing instruments or institutions to be able to pass laws that will harmonize it beyond this law, by calling for this law, which has opened a hole there and created a legal void to do so. And the last thing I'm going to say, forgive me, Mr. Vice President, is that's where I stop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86061	As always.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86062	A law such as Article 133 relating to the matter of appeal because it is completely unconstitutional since it excludes the appeal. And yet, when it excludes it, it must not mention the complaint in the second paragraph when it has disabled in the first paragraph a complete appeal. Therefore, it must immediately refer to the administrative dispute and ensure that judicial and judicial protection is protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86063	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, dear colleague Arlovic, you said that food on the scale is a second to human health. However, much of the citizens are unable to choose and eat food that has no harmful effects, so in this case it is good that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health cooperate in this field. However, I will accept this suggestion when you say that there may be a result in the second possible reading that will give the positive side to do just that kind of thing and not come.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86065	Replica's response, the Honorable Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86066	Dear colleague Poirot! These days, in Opatija, there was a consultation on healthy food, where among other things the World Health Organization data was exposed, so I did not say, but said there, that in the world annually... is about three and a half million to eighteen million deaths, which is the second cause of death from the title of polluted food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, I agree that the globalisation of the market and the outbreak of numerous food diseases, food security has become a strategic issue of international importance for each country, as well as for the Republic of Croatia. And thirdly, I am now adding that the law must not open possible legal gaps through which such polluted food will enter the Republic of Croatia in a legal manner which can today, tomorrow be a cause or a basis for the possible spread of some of the diseases that might cause the sick populations, so don't give God and mortality, and in this respect thank you for the intervention because I could only further potentiate that part, and I think, unfortunately, in this law, we are in the best position to protect our population, to pass a law that will ensure healthy and proper food, however, made some failures by accounting or concessions on the international and world trade organisations, or the world market that may be at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I suggest again that this law goes to another reading and to another reading. What does second reading mean? Well, we don't have to bring it in the day after tomorrow, but we have two weeks off. In these two weeks, on the basis of this debate, let the Proposer once again promote it, consider eventually coming to its amendments on the basis of this debate and correcting this bill by the end of this session, which will be only at the end of the 4th month. We've got plenty of time to fix it and fix it. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86067	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I join a number of MPs who have actually made their contribution in a certain way and in a way that they have actually supported this bill that I am assessing as well as everyone else very important because it regulates such important matter. So it is not said that man and his health are, in fact, what we eat. So the proverb goes on and says that I don't know from every bite, and every sip comes from our health and our disease. You can say life and death. So this matter is really essential in itself. If we factor out what food is at all, then if we Analytically approach it then we will actually see that food consists of its main energy sources, then essentials and nutrients, food additives, natural toxins, chemical contaminants, toxins due to biological contamination, chemical compounds due to preparation and processing of foods. So each of these links in the chain is actually the goal and of the interest and of this Law, and this Law is affected and is the subject of this Law as such. I would refer here to a rather dissonant presentation of one of the colleagues who is not here at the moment, and in fact, I was already raising a correction to an incorrect quote, but the chairman at the time did not see me. Since he has no colleagues, I will not even mention his name, but I will kind of characterise, or return to his position, his view of this Law, which he characterised primarily vaguely, I do not know of the prescribed, which and the particular conflict of lobbies are being fought around. I think that's what you need to answer. First, I don't understand how and on what basis people conclude that something has been prescribed. What's even prescribed? And what's that thing that's made-up, made-up, made-up? So we don't have to deal with it, that we need to deal primarily with whether it's good material or not. We here almost all agree that this is an extremely important and good material, so as such a finding is absolutely a refuse. On the other hand, when a question of some conflict is to be imposed, the lobby is then of course not to know the question of relations, or jurisdiction between one ministry and another, in this case the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. Then, in fact, all those who were on our committee yesterday, the Committee on Health, Labour and Social Care, in fact, could see that there was no conflict between lobbys as such, but simply what several of our colleagues were talking about here, and colleague Brnadić, on behalf of the club and colleague Hebrang, in particular, from the point of view of the long tradition of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and therefore everything that the institution has to do with this problem and the provision of healthy food. This Law is even in line with the Croatian Food Policy, which was built by the Department of Physiology, Monitoring and Promotion of Food, and as a strategic document is the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Committee for the Food of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Those who say this law is unclear I would tell them that those who understand what it is about are very clear. Therefore, experts who will deal with this problem, and food producers as such, because in food production and the producers themselves include experts who will understand what it is, and the end-user therefore, and as regards this law, that is, the consumer, that is, the man who will have food on his table the next day, it is absolutely irrelevant whether this Law is clear or unclear, it is much more important for him whether this Law provides healthy food on his table, and we believe absolutely that. Therefore, I believe that actually these amendments that were actually amendments to our committee yesterday, here I hear now and the Government will contribute and, in the right sense, the words will be one united endeavor of experts of one and the other ministry and the provision of health care, i.e. the most possible quality of food that is simply inevitable and with which we actually live and without which life is gone. So once again and finally my absolute support for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86069	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary of the Ministry. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, here may be a brief reference to a few exposures, but just in order to really professionally try to clarify the intentions and individual provisions. Here's since Mr. Mato Arlovic spoke among the last ones, so I immediately made a note of it. Namely, placed this kind of dilemma that standards adopt, whether these American ones, whether the standards of the European Union when it comes to food safety. What is certainly a reference to us, the first agreements signed with the European Union and our path to the European Union, which absolutely removes that doubt from one side, and the other is the issue of our external trade balance. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has in the last year, for a year and a half we have an increase in exports of agricultural and food products, so food is generally 28% while imports grow at a rate of 12%. What is more important, however, is that in the structure of these exports, 50% of exports to the countries of the European Union have been increased. And perhaps even more important data that 70% is increased exports to 15 old members of the European Union. Therefore, absolutely related to our producers who want to ensure compatibility and competitiveness on this market, means to adopt standards that allow them to compete on that market means that we are absolutely relevant standards of the European Union. And also for the third reason it's about what you said and even in some segments and stronger food safety standards than it is in America because we don't have any reservations here. We want to adopt all those trends and all those standards that will ensure healthy and healthy food for our citizens, our consumers. As far as this review of the esteemed representative Pankretić is concerned with indigenous products, regarding the protection of indigenous products, we also believe that this segment of Croatian agriculture and Croatian food industry is extremely important, that these are our specificities, that they should be protected. And I'm just going to say briefly what projects support such intentions. First of all, it is the adoption of the rules on designations of origin, labelling of the geographical origin of food and the rules on the recognition of specific characteristics of food and the award of the traditional reputation. So, it is a sublegal regulation that is fully in line with the regulations of the Council of the European Union and these products if we protect them according to these rules they will be compatible with the protection and protection of the European Union, which is, in fact, our goal because they have a clear and higher price, they represent a national brand in a certain way and in a way and protect national identity. Then, an operational programme was adopted to support the production of Slavonian cuisine, with a number of support measures, thus creating a prerequisite for better organisation of this production and creating all pre-conditions for the protection of kitchens under new procedures. Also, there is a marketing preparation of agricultural and food products where last year we included in the competition a special chapter in which support for the preparation of the specification for the protection of indigenous products stands. So we finance documentation preparation, evidence, specifications in which these products differ, in which they are specific from all such other products in the world. And so, in this way we support our associations of manufacturers who, with such a specification, submit with such a project a request to the Ministry of Agriculture for the protection of such products. And also, we created and put into circulation a guide to register the protection tags, and then we conducted a tender for certification bodies that should monitor these specifications precisely, so with objective methods of analysis of... to laboratory quality analysis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we also co-financed the accreditation of certification bodies. Therefore, a series of measures that we really want to improve this very important area, we want to speed up the protection of our indigenous products. The next thing you know about the Food Agency, you've been given the parliamentary benches of the amendment to the Government, and they clearly show that the director of the Agency and the deputy director of the Agency will appoint a board of directors after the competition has been held. Accordingly, in accordance with Regulation 178, we have avoided this situation that the Government, in some ways, has determined by the Director or Deputy Director than we have left it to the administrative council whose structure under this law is known, so we have a large number of representatives of especially those interested by producers, consumers, so all those in the food chain. The following was related to these samples at the border, Mr. Kurt said that only 80, 100, 200 samples were taken at certain borders or border crossings. However, it is exactly as data but it should also be said that samples are taken not only at the border but in our situation at the place of unloading goods and there are tens of thousands of them. So, everything that comes in is analysed but at this point we are unable to ensure that this is exclusively going at the border crossing, but it is done at the landing site, but there are clear new border crossings that would in all likelihood be consistent with such crossings in the European Union's space, which would allow us to respect and to monitor and control ourselves and to take samples at the border. Also, regarding the presentation of that representative whom my colleague Bagarić did not want to mention and who usually knows how to relativate well, and I would say patentize some things. When he said that rules on food health would be applied equally to PIK Vrbovac and to this godmother at the salary. In fact, it may also be hypothetical to ask the question if one's child would be poisoned by what was offered there on the salary of anyone it would certainly not be said to be further poisoning, these are our indigenous specificities, this is something exotic and all expensive but it is clear that both in this case and in the case of PIC Vrbovac all said there are health standards. There are consumers that we need to protect and ask everyone to respect, so I think this exotic that when it comes to human health, people's lives, etc., it should be left out. As for the individual amendments here from Mrs. Jagoda Martic, we will accept that. As regards the amendments to the SDP Club, these amendments are approximately in line with the amendments to which the Health Committee has been going but they are in this agreement, the talks have been adjusted in some way. So we've removed those doubts about some amendments that can't really stand. So you need to see the approval of objects, etc. And that, in fact, these amendments have been implemented in some way in the amendments of the Government, so I would ask that we look at it and really reach an agreement about it because the law is extremely important. In the end, he would also say, given that the two ministries have been mentioned here about this disagreement and, to some extent, conflicting attitudes, it is certain that in the European Union as regards food safety, as well as those "white books" and the hygiene package that these are indeed reform procedures. That they're twists. That it's a new approach. And clearly there should be and there must be controversy about it, and we have had this task, and here is Professor Hebrang and Dr Turic, as chairman of the Committee, that it was not easy to adjust the requirements on the one hand and, on the other hand, to respect the existing situation, to respect both the history and the tradition. And this is what Professor Hebrang said, so we had a state of war so we didn't have edpidemia. So we kept the situation under control. So these are all those experiences, that's all Croatia has and what needs to be preserved in a certain way. And I say it was extremely demanding to include it as a single model, implement it in this law, and not to be wrong in the sense of violating the provisions of these directives that we want to comply with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86071	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86072	Final proposal of the Food Act. ... Yeah? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[In the name of the club.]] Here you go. [[In the name of the club.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HSP Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break because, in order to agree on a vote. For the simple reason we got on the bench 15 amendments to the government that weren't discussed. And we as a club can't take a stand on these government amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86074	My colleague, these 15 amendments to the government came during the debate. So, yeah. Then he would suggest that we go first, first, then we go to other these suggestions, and we'll give these guys a break, and we'll discuss these others. Comrade Rosic, do you continue at this stop?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86076	Mr. President, nothing has changed in these seven minutes as far as our knowledge of the government's amendments is concerned. We had to vote, we didn't get to study it. Of course I'm staying at... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86077	In seven days, God created the world. Ten minutes off. Don't part. We're continuing the session. I ask the representative of the HSP club, the respected representative of Miroslav Rožić, to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the HSP Club has requested a break from this very important law, so the Law on Food and Amendments of the Government itself that have arrived at it, so with a number of amendments that have arrived by the representatives, the 15 amendments of the Government itself have arrived. The law was passed by an urgent procedure from the public completely unclear reasons, given the fact that it has been known for at least 4 years that such a law should be passed, that in the Croatian Parliament at two or three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86080	Comrade Alenka, please stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86081	That in the Croatian Parliament on two or three occasions, there was actually talk of both the importance and the scope of that law. Respecting the fact that the European Commission, i.e. through its bodies in negotiations with Croatia, has set the ultimate date of 31 March for the adoption of this Act for the purpose of concluding a chapter of negotiations, we have not in any way ignored it, we have reflected that fact. However, we cannot respect the fact that this bill actually does what we have opposed on several occasions in this Croatian Assembly, which is the fact that the liberalisation of the market is being introduced and that the liberalisation of the use of genetically modified organisms in Croatia is being introduced. As we have also advocated so far that Croatia is actually a GMO free country, therefore, a country free from genetically modified organisms, of course we cannot accept the fact that through this law it is actually fully introduced and liberalised by the introduction of genetically modified organisms and not only into human use food, but above all we oppose the fact that it is introduced into animal food, which means the same thing as the introduction of seeds. Is if genetically modified organisms are used for animal food it means that products of that animal origin produced in Croatia will actually be contaminated by genetically modified organisms. So it's exactly the same as liberalizing the introduction of genetically modified seeds just what we do through animal food, and of course it's animal food from which some other food is produced, any cow's milk, cheese or anything else. Therefore, this is an inadmissible law for all those who believe that genetically modified organisms should not be, should not be in Croatia, especially under such liberal conditions. That genetically modified seed must not be used, that genetically modified food must not be produced, even through products of animal origin as it is in this law... So, once again, I stress, we are not opposed to the fact that the food ready for imports containing genetically modified organisms or the products of genetically modified organisms are imported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We oppose the introduction in Croatia of food production from genetically modified organisms and those contaminated by it. The position of the HSP club two years ago and three years ago and when we discussed it here all day, it remained completely unchanged. And this attitude of the HSP club is, therefore, that no genetically modified food producing organisms should be imported in Croatia, that a special Law on genetically modified organisms should be passed as we had. But unfortunately, in the transitional and final provisions of this law in Article 133(2), it is in fact very clear that the existing Law on genetically modified organisms is being put out of effect. Something like that we can't accept, because it's actually exactly what we're up against. Thus, the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms "National Journal" cease to apply to the effect of this law. 70/2005. So, we... We suspend the law that protected us from genetically modified organisms two years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although he was not ideal, even though he was not being implemented because from 12 provisions of the Law until today only six were adopted. And he never came back to life. By this law, this bill puts him out of force and so imperfect and incomplete as he was. We simply can't accept it and about the amendments of the government that came here, there's so much to say, but here's the thing, I have to finish. I'm only going to say one fact that I don't understand the reasons for the expansion of the Advisory Council, is it because of the balance within the competent authorities and ministries as if these two ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health don't belong to the same government?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86082	My colleague, please... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86083	And another absolute, and here's another illogicality from the amendments themselves, and that's a fact...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86084	That's what we're going to discuss. We can't have this debate right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86085	Okay. Thank you very much. I mostly expressed the club's position. Please, that even though you're in a hurry to go home, even though you think you've got it covered, even though you think we need to close this negotiating chapter...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86086	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86087	This negotiating chapter, which is a chapter that is very important for the life of this country, and also for your health and for the health of children. Thank you very much. I wish you good luck, colleague of Arabovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86088	Okay. Let's get on the amendment table. State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here's what we're gonna do. We've got another one like this. The first amendment is Government. It becomes an integral part of the law. Other representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86089	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86090	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. The government, it's accepted, is an integral part of the law. 4. Vlad, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 5. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86091	He's already been accepted by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86092	Come in, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86093	Mr. President! In front of the board, we withdraw all our amendments. The reason why? Because the government, with its amendments, covered everything we asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86094	Thank you. Six. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86095	He's already been accepted by the government's amendment. Same as the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86096	No club representatives. There's a vote to vote on. Who's up for that amendment? No one. Seven. Government, accepted. It's becoming an integral part. 8th, too. 9th Retired. Ten. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86097	He's already been accepted by the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86098	Thank you. There's a vote to vote on! Who's in? It's not 11. It's an integral part. 12. It's an integral part. 13. Retracted. 14. Government, component. 15. Retracted. 16. Retracted. 17. Government. It's an integral part. 18. Retracted. 19. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86099	He was partially accepted by the government's amendment. Namely, it's accepted to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86100	There's a vote to vote on! Thank you. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 20. Government, part of the law. 21. The board, withdrawn. 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86101	Accepted by the amendment of the Government, with a note...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86102	Thank you. There's a vote to vote on. Who's in? There's no one here. 23. Government, part of the law. 24. The board's been withdrawn. 25. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86103	Accepted by the amendment of the Government, noting that the implementing regulation is not brought together, but with the agreement of the Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86104	Vote? Who's in? No one. 26. Government, part of the law. 27. Representatives of Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86105	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86106	It becomes an integral part of the law. 28. Governments, 29 and 30. Government becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. Please vote. ... Normally it's going to be a quorum determination, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The quorum? 76. There's no quorum. We'll have to wait a little longer. I'm asking those MPs, one or one. The session continues on April 18th at 9.30 p.m. Final proposal of the Food Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 10 abstentions and 4 against, the proposed Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government, the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I hereby conclude that the professional service is authorised to conduct the revision of the Food Act before its publication in the "National Journal". Please vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86108	We move on to the following: - Final proposal of the Veterinary Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 641 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The Veterinary Act, which is currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, was adopted in 1997 and amended in 2001 and 2003. Based on the past period since its adoption, it can be said that this law has largely completed its basic tasks. These were: liberalisation of the veterinary services market after privatisation of veterinary cells. Uniting the veterinary inspection that was in the local administration system by 1997 as well as the effective functioning of the system in the protection of animal and human health during that period. The basic shortcomings of the existing law are that it does not allow further harmonisation of the legislation of the European Union. Its official controls are laid down in a way that does not exclude the conflict of interest to a satisfactory extent. Here, above all, we are referring to veterinary inspectors of veterinary cells who have concessions to carry out surveillance at approved facilities. It doesn't make sense that whoever you're controlling, who you're watching, who you're eventually gonna have to punish in certain situations, is paying you for those same services. So we believe that this is a conflict of interest that has put into question the credibility of the veterinary surveillance system, and that is why we are changing it in this bill. Moreover, according to the existing Control Act, in certain segments, in particular in animal and animal products, they are too much to the extent that some of them have proved difficult to implement at all. And what all came from a single approach where responsibility for the safety of animal food in the first place rested in the country. A modern approach to the organisation of a food safety system applied in the European Union through the so-called The hygienic package and which we have fully implemented here just before through the Food Act, therefore the responsibility for this health-response focussed primarily on food business entities. Therefore, the responsibility of operators in the food business should be carried out through a system of analysis of the hazards and control of critical points, so through the HASAP system and good hygiene practices to implement this requirement for food surveillance. Finally, this should result in a reduction in the costs of control and a higher health policy of the product and at that point before it enters the market. Before there is a policy in shops because the risks of contamination are particularly biological, microbiologically removed already at the stage of primary agricultural production and processing. What are the reasons for the new law being passed along with the above? We propose the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure because this is also the law to which we comply with the legislation of the European Union and because its adoption and harmonisation and the condition for the continuation of negotiations, Chapter 11. Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary issues. In addition to this, it is very important to create a legal framework that will prevent an existing conflict of interest in carrying out veterinary checks and controls and create assumptions for optimising the existing system of official controls. In a way to reduce the number of those without simultaneously increasing the risks to food safety and to protect human and animal health. And thus reduce the costs of animal and all food business operators, but at the same time increase their responsibility. So a series of requests that have been made and which should address this bill. What is new about this Proposal for a Veterinary Law? As regards animal health protection, health statuses are introduced which are a presumption of the functioning of animal transport in accordance with European Union rules. In the field of animal labelling, it is granted the right to individuals, to mark the animals themselves in a prescribed manner but to stress their responsibility in that process and also to determine the measures that the official veterinarian may implement when irregularities in the labelling of animals are detected. In the section of food of animal origin and animal food, this proposal is in line with the draft food law, which provides for a legal framework for the adoption of hygiene, so-called ‘Hygienic’. The hygiene package. It shall also determine that inspections for the purpose of official control of the health and hygiene of food of animal origin are carried out primarily by veterinary inspectors and official veterinarians. So civil servants. The novelty passed by this law is that all fees and fees for official controls will be paid directly to the state budget. In full. They will be financed exclusively by veterinary checks and controls, which will also eliminate the existing conflict of interest in the collection of these funds, as food business entities at this point in the compensation for official controls are paid directly to authorised veterinary organisations. So private-owned veterinary cells and hospitals. Also news, certification and veterinary checks in internal and external transport. Namely, certification, thus issuing international health certificates, i.e. the health order of the consignment, shall be carried out exclusively by official veterinarians, a legal framework shall be adopted for the specific determination of controls in non-commercial animal traffic, the necessary checks and controls so far on loading and unloading of consignments of animals and products of animal origin and inspections shall be taken at the place of dispatch, i.e. destination. Official veterinarians as state officials who will take over part of the work of authorised veterinarians and part of the work of county inspectors, or city inspectors, are being introduced as we said, and the existing two levels of veterinary inspections are thus being abolished, so that state and county inspectors are all becoming state inspectors. We believe that this ensures a vertical chain of command and a vertical system of responsibility. This proposal also creates legal assumptions for the pooling of all computer programmes and databases used by the Veterinary Authority in the single, central, veterinary, information system. When it comes to the financial impact of this law, it should be said that the largest item will be taken by initial financial means necessary for the employment and equipment of official veterinarians. But also, its impact on the budget will ultimately be positive because the way the funds are collected and the financing of official controls is changed. The adoption of a new law, hence this Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Use, will create a legal framework that will allow for further harmonisation with European Union legislation, allowing the system to function in the transitional period until the full implementation of the aquis and will remove the existing conflict of interest in carrying out veterinary checks and controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86110	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry discussed at the 50th session held today the Proposal for a Veterinary Law with the final proposal for a law. The discussion of that draft law was carried out by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. After the opening argument, the proposal was put forward for this law to be discussed in the first reading. However, that proposal did not receive the required majority, and the majority of the votes supported the proposal by the applicant to adopt it by an urgent procedure. In a full discussion involving representatives of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, representatives of professional associations, and other professional institutions, the Committee assessed that this law enables further harmonisation of the veterinary area with the legislation of the European Union. The Committee held an opinion submitted by the Croatian Veterinary Chamber and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the agriculture sector, the food industry and forestry. Attending representatives of the breeders' associations pointed out that although they participated in the drafting of this law, many of their proposals were not appreciated that its adoption would significantly accumulate production in relation to earnings, and thus perhaps endanger the development of livestock production. Representatives of pig breeders indicated that the problem of the elimination of swine fever disease should be seen in the context of pig marking procedures before placing on the market. In further discussion, the opinion has been given that the solution to a specific 24 hour working hours period of the veterinary organisation is questionable because there will be many places where this will not be necessary, and such a solution requires large costs. It is also stated how individual veterinary controls should be carried out on farms through certificates, but not when loading livestock according to Article 60. Some members of the board hold that solutions relating to public powers are not sufficiently elaborated in this law and are also questionable from a constitutional and legal point of view. It is also indicated that this law, apart from determining the jurisdiction of veterinarians, is in the conduct of... more care should be taken in both prevention and curative matters when it comes to animal diseases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further discussion draws attention to the fact that certain provisions allow veterinarians to enter the area of the agronomic profession. This primarily relates to the provision of Article 132 which allows veterinarians to control the production of corn, since corn is food and to determine production technology. The issue of monitoring is not, in the opinion of some board members, consistently and clearly resolved since the costs of carrying out the same are treated differently from farm to farm, thus reducing competition on the market. On the basis of the debate, the board proposed, with five votes in favour, three abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86112	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86113	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As I have already announced when I personally debated us at the club, we are seriously thinking and we are proposing to the Assembly and the Proposer to accept that this law is conducted in two readings, regardless of the law that is in line with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and no matter what is indicated here, the project, or the coordination plan for this year, provides that this law should be adopted in the first quarter, first of all, reminding that it was in the plan for the last year and it was not adopted, and so nothing will happen. Even more so, it can be respected to be passed in the first quarter. If not the day after tomorrow, but at the end of next month, and of course to try to consider all the comments, suggestions and suggestions given in relation to this law on working bodies, which will be given during the debate are held at this session of the Assembly, in order to actually get as high-quality and as better a law as possible. Our second observation concerns the question of actually the concept of compliance with the acquis of the European Union. The fact is that we have a law in front of us on the basis of which we would argue that this area is in line with the legal property of the European Union, and at the same time within the law we have almost one third of the total number of provisions of some 156 seems to me in 51 cases that I have managed to count we have a reference standard which indicates that an additional regulation or implementing regulation etc. to bring the competent national authority or ministry. Therefore, if from that aspect it appears then it is obvious that these implementing rules will be provided by that set of regulations, instructions, if I may say mandatory interpretations and instructions, etc. In fact, the law is actually further harmonised and we feel that this is not good and that this issue should be resolved. We agree as third with the remark we heard from the home working body that the new Veterinary Law should not further serve the animal control, control and inspection process or increase the cost of this relationship, and at the same time should ensure the necessary quality... and control and supervision to actually ensure quality health care for both animals and products of animal origin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this respect, we believe that we should not adopt legal provisions that are, for example, higher in the countries of the European Union under obligations relating to owners, i.e. owners of animals. For example, you have a familiar situation that in the European Union countries there is a rule that veterinary control can, of course, be carried out not in loading and unloading but only in unloading. In one place, he doesn't have to go to both places. Then that mandatory control does not have to be carried out as it says here, it says in the law that it has to be implemented, and in Europe the exception is that it is prescribed when it has to be implemented in any case. And of course there is that obligation that must always be present, which is a matter of control of livestock, that is, if you want the farms on which the livestock is located, which must be permanent, continuous and of course occasional, depending on when it is necessary to resolve and resolve certain things. In this regard, as a fourth, we have also made certain remarks and suggestions that would certainly lead to the reduction of the number of necessary papers that will be followed by the transport and control of animals that are both in imports and exports, but also in the transport from place to place, so if you want to go from one farm to the place of consumption or to the place of slaughter, for example. And for the simple reason, it seems to us that there is one rule in the European market and someone has made such an observation from all the associations with which we have contacted that the whole market for once loaded livestock is actually treated as a single market in the European Union. While, in fact, every time from farm to destination for the animal, it is practically treated as a special case, not only as a market within the Republic of Croatia, let alone when viewing the market of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the European Union. In this regard, we believe that these matters should be reconsidered before this law is passed. The second thing we should specifically point out is a question which is a legal issue at first sight, but it is not and is not done in the context of this law only on a legal issue. It's actually a question of what's called. public powers. The first thing we would like to draw particular attention to is that public authorities can, by our Constitution, be in accordance with Article 116. The Constitution only gives the law. And in this law in Article 114, when it comes to the tasks of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber, they are then counted to exercise certain powers in points 5 and 9 as public powers. First, we draw attention to the fact that there are still some of the powers given to the veterinary chamber, according to us with the right, which are also actually exercised as public powers, because behind this followed by certain documents or documents, is now the question of whether we will declare it public authority and give it, that this document has its validity. Or if we don't declare it as we haven't actually done now, who's going to have to further verify that correction that it had the character of a public document. The second thing we want to say about this is specifically. It seems to us that the legislator is in good faith when it comes to the Croatian Veterinary Institute, when it comes to veterinary college, and then when it comes to veterinary hospitals, clinics, etc. presupposed that the law, for example on higher education and science, etc. Enough to settle the issue of public authority not to be mentioned here again. However, it seems to us that this is not good because some of these issues that the Croatian Veterinary Institute will work on, in particular, the control of radioactive substances in animals, meat and products of animal origin, and food for animals, etc. Such findings are documents or not, whether they are evidence, whether they can be used in proceedings or not in administrative proceedings, in court proceedings, I only mention examples. We consider this to be the case, that some of these issues passed by this Veterinary Act with the right Croatian Veterinary Institute, Veterinary Faculty as scientific institutions, etc. It is necessary to consider and prescribe whether they are and to what extent they involve actually public powers. This is very important, for the simple reason to resolve on the one hand the issue of responsibility, on the other hand, the issue of jurisdiction. On the third hand, the issue of division relating to professional responsibility for the implementation of the law on the one hand. And responsibility for supervision of law enforcement as such by the competent ministry. We feel that we should examine that again well. We believe that enough of such questions can be found, for example, to be discussed. The example works only here I mention if you take point 14. in Article 105. where it says it performs laboratory tests for... and other biologically active substances in animals, meat and other food of animal origin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that he's done all these tests, what's the result of the search? Some kind of solution. What acts have the character of this solution? Is he an administrative act, not an administrative act? Is this an act of the organization with public authority or not? If he has public authority, is that a device that can be used? And so on and so forth. That's what you should see. In particular, if an article is taken, point 9, of the same article on research, improving the application of this method, detection, suppression, prevention of infectious diseases, pests and other animal diseases. So these are all the serious things that the Institute can also do as a scientific institution, related to certain health projects when it examines and does not have to have the character of public authority. But when it comes to the implementation of the Veterinary Act in specific cases, then it can and should have public authority, of course, if the ministry agrees, or the state body. If he doesn't, and if he doesn't get it, then someone else has to do it. It is similar for the Veterinary Faculty regarding the work of UDBU... and pathology tests of animal organs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the question is, what is this finding, what is this document, etc., etc. So in the best faith, we are trying to say that it would be very good for these issues to be more precisely arranged and more precise differences because the facts will be quite clear that if you take a college, an institute, a chamber, a veterinary organization, etc. that there are many, many more tasks that are numbered here which may and should also have the character of public authority than just point 5 and point 9 of this article that I have already mentioned. The second part that we have in relation to this principle is the question of the procedure of granting public powers. Here is only a question at first sight and it was actually taken from a traditional approach when once the state executives were able to confer public powers. According to our new constitution, the executive authority can no longer grant public authority. It's exclusively in the Constitution. I'll quote article 116. The constitution which is clear and has no doubt where he says... in paragraph 2 certain public administration affairs can be entrusted to the local community, the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and legal persons who have... So only by law. [[You don't understand.]] Now, when it comes to the procedure of granting public powers, it is not actually public authority, public powers are laid down by law. But here it is now necessary to establish the procedure for determining the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of these public powers. Public powers are laid down by law and the competent authorities of the ministry should be entitled to tender, to collect all information from which it simply determines whether that person is physically or legally capable of obtaining such powers meets all the prescribed conditions and criteria that he can carry out in order to carry out the quality of that work. It's not just a termological thing, it's a matter of content, if it were just a termology, we wouldn't even be presenting this remark. Allow a few more questions that are certainly being opened in this regard regarding, among other things, animal transport, control and the time when compensation should be paid. We have also made observations and amendments to Article 62, 68, and here in Article 68, we specifically refer to the issue of equipment, i.e. the question of disinfection of means of transport after the transport of animals carried out, and not only if the disease was identified in animals but always, always so that it would actually act preventively for a simple reason, because it should not be left to the case, from case to case, so that there is a possible transfer of an infectious disease in this way to animals that may have both the end and the form of an epidemic. Of course, by discussing the remarks that we, as a club, have received from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce regarding some of the observations and we ourselves have seen that certain concepts used in the law are not consistently implemented through the law and should, in fact, be nomotechnically pre-published in order to actually resolve this issue better. In particular, it is interesting to process and process the skin of this issue referred to in Article 46 where it is said that it would be prohibited to place on the market prior to performing a laboratory examination on the spine of the skin. Now the question is actually how much and how does it increase the costs of all other users mainly if it is considered that before the skin is cut off, the animals are completely examined. Perhaps in this respect we should make a slightly different solution because it would actually raise the question that double pay is the same actually review because animal health must also determine whether or not there is a disease to this disease. In particular, the question referred to in Article 73(8) is an interesting issue where compensation for carrying out veterinary checks or consignments is prescribed across the border of Croatia. The question now needs to be considered whether this fee does not have to be paid when it comes to segregated consignments, since the fee is already paid for the veterinary health examination by issuing a certificate. Because this is how you pay once now when you get a certificate at all that you can go into it, why now, for each case, you have to pay that same fee again. We believe that it is, in fact, agreeing with the Chamber of Commerce that this increases and increases the costs of our cattle farmers in the export of cattle and, of course, reduces their competitiveness in relation to all others. And the last thing we'd like to point out in particular. We consider that, as regards the observations among other things, it is necessary to further develop and make additional arrangements for the exchange of business to a particular veterinarian as a private person who fulfils the professional conditions under this law. It is unacceptable that we have only a civil servant, i.e. an authorised veterinarian and a professional person, and at the same time we would not extend to all cases where they meet the conditions and possibilities, and there is a contract to trust in legal persons, to extend it to natural persons, and thus, in many areas of the Republic of Croatia where there are insufficient numbers of veterinarians, professionals, in fact, to allow the quality of these jobs to be carried out in order to develop livestock and animal protection in the Republic of Croatia for the sake of the quality necessary to be achieved not only in a legislative way but also in the implementation of the law to meet the standards of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86114	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86115	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Assistant, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here's a few sentences about this law. Well, I'll point out at the outset that the Veterinary Act almost exists to me for 10 years now, with two amendments that were in 2001 and 2003, and there were no specific things. I must stress that this is an extremely important law for me, it belongs to this package that we talked about and that it is extremely important for agricultural production, especially for livestock production. In this part we have certainly two important things that should be highlighted at first, which do not always have to be in direct conflict, but many times in this conflict they find themselves in. Of course, all of us aim to have protection in a certain way, to have control of certain diseases that we do not experience epidemics, and on the other hand, our goal is to make our producers, our peasants, our companies as cheap as possible and as competitive as possible. When a man says it like this, sometimes it seems that these things are hard to reconcile and that they're always conflicting interests, but I think it's possible and I believe that we're already with this law, I'm going to say it freely, make an important step. I'm just sorry we've had our options open for the past 3-4 years that we haven't used to this day, I believe that by listening to the secretary of state today, I believe there will be strength, although this term remains not too much time for things to be over. I will speak from experience and I will say very openly what if there is a fellow veterinarian here, let me not be resented, there is not exactly any antagonism between me as an agronomist and them, even as much as many of my discussions when I started speaking with the need to especially protect the veterinary profession, and what happens back ten years has unfortunately led the veterinary profession to this level that we have today. I'll be not so detailed about the law, but I'd say very principled nature that needs to be done, in which direction you need to go. I would say one mistake that was made in some long time ago was called privatization of veterinary cells, and most likely it had to go in that direction, but unfortunately for the veterinary profession it started towards a direction which is only called profit and unfortunately that profit has led to a number of problems today and unfortunately we do not have one situation today, so today we were able to see on the board that we could talk about, I would say in a certain agreed way with the veterinary chamber, and also with people from that profession and come up with common real solutions. It is not possible I would always say to please certain things, and the most difficult thing is to reconcile expertise, profession and with private interests and with certain profits. So I'm afraid that we've come to a certain part today where I must honestly say it's not good for the overall veterinary profession because I think it deserves a better place, deserves more concrete things, but by resisting a certain transformation and reform that should have been done now I can freely say brought before a series and there will be nothing more to be done. I think I'm going to try to describe these things very vividly you know. It is not possible for us to have a system in which an authorised veterinary station has a contract with a particular slaughterhouse, an authorised veterinarian is reviewing and monitoring, paying that veterinary station, normally that veterinary station is owned, and sometimes those veterinarians who directly oversee that slaughterhouse and then sometimes we wonder what our problems are. It was to be expected, the conflict was the most direct and I think that conflict should have been abandoned before. I think we had the possibility that at least this cash flow that was supposed to be resolved in a way that we first paid the money to the ministry that he was supposed to go to, and the ministry that's going to go to the Treasury today, and the ministry is paying that money off to authorized veterinarians. The proposal that we have now I welcome, I know that there will be huge resistance to it, I know that there have been before because the regulations have been in place for some of which we have been able to function in force for almost 3.4 years. It is a sad situation to say that, and this is what needs to be said here, we have to say little of the truth when certain controls come to us, especially in those facilities that are intended to be exported from the Republic of Croatia when it is European control and when we try to explain that authorised veterinarians from veterinary stations are in some way state workers, but they are very authorised and then it can be interpreted in one way or another. I don't think there's an interpretation here, I think the ministry, the administration, urgently, has to take over that part of the activity as it does here, and it says in the Law, in all export slaughterhouses, we have to have authorised veterinarians who will be carrying out part of their work, who will be paid as all other civil servants are paid, and we're going to have a very different situation, and I believe that this situation will be much better than now as it is with certain things. Here we have what is concrete and where the biggest remarks so far have been related to certain fees, at certain costs burdening our livestock industry, which we all think is possible to avoid. I would suggest from these things that we try to see without distinction what it says in this Law that loading and unloading are no more, but we have still unclearly left these places where this cattle are, etc. And I'm afraid that there will be no change so quickly, especially if the testimony remains as necessary and as prescribed in the law, so I would at least ask if it's possible if it's a rule, because I haven't noticed that it exists in the law somewhere, that it's seen that epizetological area, and that's the county being an area where you don't need to do loads and unloads, and only if there's a certain infectious disease then it's an epizetological unit, i.e. the municipality or the city. I think what's happening to us, and now you know that we all have a lot of municipalities and a lot of cities, we have to do loads almost for every cattle leaving the yard, leaving the farm. That's the cost. None of this load is below 200,300 kuna, therefore the costs incurred in that section are extremely high. Please let us see how much we can do in these specific things because I am truly afraid that while these vague articles are summed up in a certain way even though the assistant Brstilo and on the board explained that the loading and unloading are no more, but I am afraid as long as these articles are summed up, while the regulations are passed, they are clearly defined here that the regulations must be passed within a year which is positive in this Law because there is no one I would say the expectations, but a clearly defined deadline because otherwise it can not work, but I would pray that we do not remain undefined here because this situation will certainly not be easy. There has been a lot of discussion, and here at this first food safety congress about what will happen with certain veterinary cells, we have had, and here I have witnessed the steps of individual directors, the owners of these veterinary cells, that these transformations will have to be done, I believe that there will be some changes, but I am also sure that in the ministry, the need for personnel will be pronounced in the administration, and I think there will be no problem for those people who want to do part of their work, and I believe that we will then organise the service at the highest level and that there should be no problem in that section. So I support these specific things, my colleague Arlovic has already mentioned certain proposals concerning the Croatian Chamber of Commerce proposal. Let me mention these parts that he did not mention, which are amendments that would relate to Article 53. Due to the excessive importance of exports, in order to enable Croatian companies to carry out export formalities as easily and as quickly as possible, we believe that the law should contain a period within which official, or... the obligation to issue an export certificate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that we have had a lot of problems with these certificates, I think it is necessary to stress that exporting our commitment, that it must not only remain in the story when we want to highlight certain things, but we should also prepare the administration and our human resources to be ready if a particular exporter is sure to find a good job, then we need to be at his service and help him to do this job to the end and make that export certificate accessible to him. In addition, Article 60 provides that the transport of consignments of animals, products of animal origin, animal feed is permitted only if it is located... the veterinary examination provided for the identification of traceability and the other prescribed conditions on the basis of which the certification is carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that animal feed of non-animal origin should be excluded from veterinary examination on site... only as excluded from the veterinary examination on imports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We note that even in the old law, her veterinary examination has not been carried out. I think there may have been some confusion here, that this review really isn't necessary here. I don't know what reason I have listed here, because it could be interpreted as trying to capture a particular part that has never been within this law. Article 85(1) and (2) and Article 138, Article 11 and Article 141(1) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2003 prescribes that in the event of a forced slaughter, the slaughter of a slaughterhouse designated by the competent official veterinarian and the nearest slaughterhouse shall be subject to the slaughter of a sick animal or of a carcase and bodies of animals forcibly slaughtered. We believe that it is legally necessary to regulate that the provisions of these articles should not apply to export slaughterhouses if other slaughterhouses are located close by. I think it's logical, and I think that even when it comes to certain conditions that need to be met by export slaughterhouses, it's difficult to force them to accept this kind of coercion, because you all know that after such worship we have certain processes that need to be done, that it might cause some problems in such export slaughterhouses, if it's possible in a certain way that we have another slaughterhouse somewhere nearby. We suggest that the possibility of selecting an authorised veterinary organisation to... the areas in which two or more veterinary organisations are authorised or established, other than animal owners, are allowed to feed and feed animals for the purpose of carrying out the operations referred to in paragraph 9 and paragraph 11 of this Article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, Article 115 of the new draft law, supervision of the professional work of carrying out veterinary activities, shall be carried out by a veterinary chamber whose chairman shall establish a commission to carry out this surveillance. With the old law, surveillance was carried out by the administration and the commission was established by the director. We believe that the old solution is better, as Article 112(1) of this proposal defines the Croatian veterinary chamber as an association of veterinarians whose primary task is to promote veterinary and represent interests in the veterinary field. We believe that professional work in the exercise of veterinary activity is a much wider social interest than promoting veterinary and representing interests in the veterinary field, so this is about a possible conflict of interest. I also have to say here that I'm surprised, I don't see the reason why you're going here to the Croatian veterinary chamber is that some kind of step? But I think here in a certain way that part of the work that she's been doing so far, which ultimately allowed the ministry to do some work and carry out some control in any case, is now making it impossible. I'm not sure it's good to put a chamber there. I can only say that this surveillance refers to the fact that the Croatian veterinary chamber may temporarily or permanently withdraw the veterinary license if the surveillance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article determines the deficiencies of such a nature that further performance of the work may cause adverse consequences or risks to human or animal health. It was the management, it was the ministry. When there was an excess on the ground, then as a ministry, as a management, we could react to such problems. I am not sure that the Croatian Veterinary Chamber with such one commission as is designated in some way by the President of the Croatian Veterinary Chamber... I think we should think this through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that authority should be left to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the administration in that section. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86116	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86117	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! Animal health is the first line of defence for human health and food production is an activity of strategic importance. They directly affect the security of the system and national security and the national economy. As such, it should be of particular interest to the state. The State is obliged to provide all life-threatening conditions and services throughout its territory. This includes animal health protection with all areas of activity in that segment. Since the decision of the Croatian people to leave the ways of the agreed economy and socialism and to meet all the conditions for the creation of the atmosphere of an entrepreneurial economy in the veterinary field has led to several major obstacles in the reconstruction of the same. Veterinary services from the socialist, social phase as a specific service activity that the then territorial unit had to provide to its population have become an entrepreneurial phase with all the legality of the entrepreneurial, profitable economy. And along with the absurd imperative presence in all state areas. Why absurd? Because the underlying reason for the investment is profit, and in certain areas there is an insufficient number of individuals subject to veterinary practice, which consequently raises the price but reduces the quality and diversity of the services provided. For this basic reason, it is not possible to set the same minimum service quality throughout the state area. If the veterinary organisations operating on the income principle cannot charge their own service under the law at a level that is real, and at the same time they are obliged to pay the tax which is calculated at the same rate regardless of where the veterinary organisation is located and operated. At the same time, each of these veterinary organisations is obliged to buy on the same market from drug suppliers, vaccines and equipment at the same prices and have them ready to use. And the working conditions are not the same. It is therefore necessary to set clear parameters for the service to operate on because, if it works on the income profit principle, the criteria are one. But if it works on a mandatory principle and measures should be different. Accordingly, the financial position of veterinary organisations in this respect should be clearly defined by the veterinary service that provides for animals of the economic category i.e. animals for production, animals held for official purposes and animals for society with humans. The Croatian Veterinary Chamber, the Association of Medical Doctors of Veterinary Medicine, which, by its location, must promote the interest of the profession and protect it. It's an association where membership is mandatory. Membership shall be paid according to the tariff. By virtue of the powers vested in it and charges the licence, a licence to work should act independently in the interests of the profession and its membership and upon whose status consent is granted by the Minister of Resort Ministry. It's all absurd, the chamber is an interesting association of stocks. Its membership should be voluntary, a decision of personal choice because of its own interest and not coercion. The interest of the profession cannot be protected by the statute of association given by the minister. The Chamber shall, among other things, prescribe the lowest prices of veterinary services in the entrepreneurship activity. Prices are obligations regardless of the difference in operating costs for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Following the logic of free entrepreneurship, the service provider may and must be the result of the personal choice of the one who pays the service based on satisfaction with the service. The concessional approach to providing services obliges the holder or owner of the animal to receive and pay the concessionary and in the domain of the ordered measures in the field of business, the free choice at the price determined whether it is unjustly or justifiably satisfied or dissatisfied with the quality and quantity of the service provided. The Croatian veterinary chamber shall, among other things, give a preliminary opinion on the requirements for the opening of veterinary organisations based on their criteria for a network of veterinary organisations according to the animal number criterion in a given area, which is certainly the root of the agreed economy. It is prohibited to open new veterinary organisations in an area which, according to them, is not sufficient for the number of animals directly asphyxiating free entrepreneurship and competition by mixing quality through continuous administration. As an entrepreneurial activity, veterinary is an activity which, according to the laws of the economy, creates a new value, is subject to the capital invested which must create a new value, profit and therefore is subject to taxation and the value added tax is a transitory type of tax paid by the end-user, which in this case is owned by an animal owner from a higher position by an investor in the production process, the owner of capital. Its interest is to sell the product unit with as little cost as possible and to collect as much as possible and make as much money as possible. From that point of view, it is unusually important to see what is a fundamental particle in that domain, a single animal that should be as simple, uniform, more efficient and cheaper marked as a unit. It is therefore necessary to adopt, under this law, a rule on the uniform identification of all animal species relevant to the aspect of this law, the identification simply for the implementation and supervision and the establishment of an effective control system of the same with all sanctions mechanisms. Only then will it be possible to monitor the movement of the individual from birth, during life and after death of any animal for the production and cultivation, service, or society of humans. The unique identification cannot be left to animal owners, it must be clearly and unequivocally determined, the means and means of effective control and must be disabled by counterfeiting, avoiding labelling or destruction is a series of technical options which, with a low application price, have very high efficiency, are protected from counterfeiters and high speed obligations on data search. This cannot possibly be left to the will of the owner of the animal. In addition to this indicator, it is easy to link all other data from records, veterinary work, the doctor of veterinary medicine that has done them, used medicines, vaccinations, changes in habitats, changes in owners to financial indicators. The following unconverted conclusion is that a clear and unambiguous regulation on the keeping and marking of animals must be established for both farmed and farmed farming. So for an extensive, individual manner of keeping insistent literally without an apology in its implementation and control. In this respect, it should be made clear that the keeping of animals as a social element cannot be tolerated or tolerated in any form unless the minimum zoo technical criteria prescribed for each species are met. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that many rural households will call for tradition, economic factor, social element and a number of other aspects that cannot and must not be tolerated unless new knowledge of the veterinary medicine of the zoo technical and livestock industry is taken into account. It is precisely because one possibility of preserving the social peace in the country was the keeping of animals for both personal and sales purposes, whether they are the same or their products or the processing of that illusion should be rejected. The social policy of rural households should be implemented in other ways, marked in one sense and efficiently by individual animals, chosen by an optimal level of quality of conditions for holding the same, their habitats and feeding grounds is simply imperative. Another unusually important task in this segment is the education of a rural population who wants to keep animals. It is not and cannot be determined by birth in the country on the property that someone as such is a farmer. In today's specialisation era in all activities and in the production of animals and products thereof, it is also necessary to set minimum professional, educational criteria for the performance of the same tasks. Insisting on the implementation of controls without a solution to this basic part, it is impossible to find quality and effective solutions in other segments governed by this law. Now we are witnessing an outbreak of swine fever, despite all the measures we've taken so far, it has failed to end this epidemic that takes the form of disaster. It is a disease that is contained under the law for which the only professionally accepted and justifiable method of suppression is the death of all the sick and the disease of suspicious animals, the closure of the courtyard, habitats of all animals, increased disinfection of space, people, equipment and vehicles, banning the traffic of animals in the infected area. The vaccination against swine fever was prohibited and it was carried out as a PDO technical measure before compliance with the requirements of the European Union had to be followed by the veterinary medicinal product. Such measures are provided for in the European Union legislation are effective, but they are also extremely expensive in our case where there is no control or control, identification and traffic of animals. It's not expensive what's effective, it's safe, but it's a procedure after an epidemic occurred. Prevention measures should prevent such cases from being carried out with high-quality preventive measures through the identification of all animals of the last of the same records, changes in habitat owners, implementing zoo technical and veterinary measures on those animals. It would cut off the stellar unregistered animal trafficking. There will certainly be a lot of resistance, cooperation, state-of-the-art, animal trafficking on the one hand, because of customs and habits, and on the other hand the social element. On the third hand, helping the economic state of the household and certainly a huge share of animal smugglers, profiteers, profit-oriented. This allows everything not to settle the situation in that area. In this way there is no minimum control in the area which is interesting and because of the amount of money that moves in these circles. And so it's white that it's a game of cops and thieves. A game of hide-and-seeks amongst those who have a state-of-the-art condition. Avoiding surveillance is avoided veterinary control, animal health control, animal welfare control and exposure to unnecessary suffering and control of food health. The control of animal and product traffic and, as the most balanced avoidance, dims financial traffic and thus deprives that part of the financial cake to be paid to the State through fees and taxes. And every government so far has sworn that food production in the Republic of Croatia should be as efficient and cheap as possible. So in proportion, we all pay for food more and more expensive. There's been a shortage. The food of poor quality is imported from abroad, which can be charged up to the consumption of users. Food is increasing quality, selecting potential through the poverty of its own livestock stock is decreasing. The keeping of animals becomes more expensive and production ultimately becomes invaluable. The country is on the garland, a village on exhale and a trade of goods of general consumption should be known necessarily Bulgarian, Hungarian, German, because goods are originating in these destinations. In my humble opinion, this is the basic part that should be incorporated into the Veterinary Act and thus pave the way for the adoption of a simple effective implementing law. Everything else would be empty stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86118	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. Here we have discussed in the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community the Proposal for a Veterinary Law with the Final Proposal for the Law and we support its adoption and support its adoption by an urgent procedure. After a broad debate, we are determined that this law provides assumptions regarding the creation of legal frameworks that will allow for compliance with European Union directives. More than 80 Directives and regulations on animal health, food of animal origin and feed have been processed and veterinary checks have been carried out in domestic and international transport. There is no legal framework in the current law to monitor animal health. There is no legal framework for long-term eradication plans for certain infectious and artificial diseases or for crisis plans in case of outbreaks of certain diseases. No sanctioning is prescribed in the event that the conditions laid down in the labelling and in accordance with European Union legislation are not met on the holding. Well, here's what he would have been referring to, this debate, if veterinary organisations had gone to profit after privatisation. Surely that doesn't mean in all areas. In each area of the veterinary organisation, they work differently, and surely not to accept these provisions also applies to the owner and the veterinary community and also to the inspectorate. And also on legislation, so that we also have very good zoo-sanitary measures on farms up to 10 to 100, over 100 and so on. However, the inspector passes the facilities. Even today, in most parts of smaller farms, smaller courtyards have not yet met these zootechnical measures. Not even the courtyards are fenced. We don't even have... barriers and so on and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this law makes it safe to do so in the future. So it can be sanctioned. And what is constantly mentioned here is that responsibility, above all, self-control of both the production and the animals and also the food must fall on the burden of the owner or manufacturer. So are those organisations involved. It is also necessary to ensure that European standards can be implemented and thus create conditions for the competitiveness of livestock as an important economic branch for the Republic of Croatia. This proposal also introduces new modern animal disease control measures, their early detection and... plans their very quick suppression and eradication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The establishment of animal health status at the level of herds, holdings, regions or countries will allow animal owners to meet animal health conditions in the internal problem of the European Union without restriction. A new system of food safety, so-called the hygiene package puts the entities in the food business and animal owners at the centre of responsibility. A system is introduced as I have mentioned self-control which is extremely important for the entire adjustment system and assumes that official controls are being carried out more rationally and efficiently with the aim of systematically resolving the conflict of interest in carrying out veterinary checks and controls. These are introduced by the official veterinarian as a civil servant. This, in the bill of law, should be set up by 219 official veterinarians and 57 national veterinary inspectors. In the inspection, we have 164 places filled with 92 places. And it means we need a total of 184 official veterinarians. I believe that in the entire veterinary organisation in 2007, 2008 and 2009 it will be able to fill the inspection sites and also these places for official veterinarians. The paper is this and the change in the system of collection by making total fees and fees into the state budget, thus providing more resources in those positions for checks and controls and in some way order in the business of the veterinary profession. A central information system is introduced for the efficient operation of the entire veterinary system, and this is indeed one system that includes everything regarding veterinary professions from inspectors’ registers, official veterinarians authorised. Authorised veterinary organisations, a register of approved facilities, a unique register of domestic animals and a register of farms, which I think is the most important thing in this matter and the fact that we are listening to these days to the problem of marking exactly this and the unique register of domestic animals and farm registers will in some way encourage it to be done neatly and properly. Programme for the registration of veterinary medicinal products, for the collection, control of veterinary duties, registers, monitoring programmes, monitoring, control, animal diseases, zoos, laboratory findings, etc. I think this bill is a good basis for making sub-legislative and implementing acts, and it will certainly enable further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European Union directives. Once again, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this proposal and I did not want to correct it. However, it is not true that there are restrictions on the opening of new veterinary organisations in this law but that veterinary organisations can still be opened. The question is from middle to middle, from interest, etc. and the veterinary practice and everything else is open so there's no ban. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that the veterinary chamber as a chamber must certainly put more effort into functioning what it is for. Now we've given her some surveillance powers. However, I think it will take part in the adoption of minimum veterinary prices in order not to have someone working on those statements in the area with... prices, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that one work is introduced between the work on the counties of more than one authorised organization. I think they must put more and more effort into playing a more and more important role in all of this. One more time to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86120	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to say about this law, although I'm not from that branch, but here's what I do know about it, I've met in my business and private life with this profession, and I wouldn't say that this bill is by some colleagues that it's bad, for me it's good. Of course there will always be various lobbies, interests acquired during veterinary practice and business, and some who have achieved certain interests so far will want to continue. But good practice will not allow this, so I would say that this Veterinary Act is designed to regulate animal health, animal food and food for animal origin, to regulate certification and veterinary checks in internal and international transport, the system of implementation of veterinary activities, fees and costs, administrative and inspection supervision and the central veterinary information system. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Use is in line with European Union legislation and provides a framework for establishing a European approach that is responsible for food safety and animal health is determined for operators in the business of food and animal owners. The law also establishes an effective system of control and supervision and prevents conflicts of interest in the area of control and supervision of authorised veterinarians who are also employees of companies or veterinary organisations and have actually done a double job, a job in a double role. They were both review and surveillance, which is really inadmissible, and this law deals with it. The change in the payment system for checks and controls carried out in such a way as to ensure that all fees and charges are paid to the state budget equalises the system of collection, increases the revenues of the state budget intended exclusively for carrying out the checks and controls. Finally, this control and collection system avoids the already said conflict of interest in which veterinary organisations are now located, which, in accordance with the applicable charge regulation, charge directly from entities to which they carry out checks and controls as authorised inspectors. So, let me get this straight. Good legal solutions have been established. An exact framework for implementation has been established, but I would also like to make some remarks about this law. In Article 117, which speaks of veterinary costs in the first paragraph, the state budget also requires the provision of means to settle costs, in order to combat certain infectious or artificial diseases, in the fourth indent for disinfection, disinfection, deratisation. And it says these supplies of equipment and other necessary materials for their implementation. I believe that it is necessary to remove it from this indent, so this addition to the supply of equipment and other necessary material, because I will return to Article 34(4) of this bill, which prescribes that... the measures ordered by the veterinary inspector shall be carried out by authorised veterinary organisations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, veterinary organisations to get authorization for... jobs must have equipment, resources and professional persons and that is their economic interest because they have a monopoly for these jobs and they can also work on the market, so why would the state budget provide them with equipment and means of work when they will charge all those jobs they carry out for an authorised official veterinary inspector or state inspector according to their prominent and certified price list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also comment on Article 124, first paragraph, where it says among other things what inspection supervision is, which is understood by that, so it says the quality of food, so I would add the amendment that I have already proposed to it to the quality of food of animal origin and feed for animals. In Article 133(4), the party is dissatisfied with the result of the analysis may, within 8 days of the date of receipt of the report on the result of the analysis, require that a re-analysis be carried out. I would add that, and I suggest that this is my amendment to be put on, so it can require that a re-analysis be carried out in an accredited laboratory as set out in the Food Law Proposal. In paragraph 6 of that same Article 133 states the costs of the laboratory search of official samples taken in the framework of the monitoring programme shall be borne by a legal or natural person where the samples have been taken independently of the search results, except where the funds in the state budget have been provided for monitoring purposes. I certainly don't think that it can stand and I suggest that this part be thrown out that the party bear the costs regardless of where the funds are not provided, because the funds actually under the Food Law, the proposal for a food law must be secured, and the party under the Food Act is not obliged to pay the sample if the sample is correct. Here was one of my small contributions to the debate on the Veterinary Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86122	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I'm finishing Parliament's work today. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. Final proposal of the Law on the November choir and other November organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86123	Final proposal of the Veterinary Act. The debate on the text of the law has been completed. There are a few amendments. Mr. Baby, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86124	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86125	Okay, well, yeah, we get it. Thank you. State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go. Amendment 1 to the First Representative of Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86126	Amendment 1 to Bozidar Pankretić's First Amendment is not accepted for the following reason. The concept of an epizothological area, i.e. an epizothological unit, is determined in accordance with the applicable administrative division in the country. Article 1(1) provides that this law enlarging and protecting animal health, implementing veterinary public health measures, improving animal reproduction, veterinary protection of the environment, official controls, veterinary surveillance. It is not possible to apply the following provisions in epizothological areas, i.e. county and Zagreb, in full application of the provisions of this law, in units or municipalities and cities to the provisions of this law only in the event of the occurrence of infectious or artificial diseases, while ignoring the implementation of the prescribed measures, by the provisions of Article 1(1), Article 3(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86127	Thank you. Since there are no MPs, it is necessary to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86128	This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86129	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86130	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86131	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86132	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86133	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86134	This amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86135	There are no MPs. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86136	This amendment is not accepted. The obligation to report the arrival of animals does not exclusively refer to animal labelling but also to health control. In accordance with Article 35(6), it is already prescribed that the owner of the animals must keep the prescribed records and registers and ensure that... animals are moved. Article 9 of the same Article provides that the method of keeping the records is prescribed by the Minister, so it is not only the register of animals that is relevant for the transport of animals but also the documentation on animal health.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86137	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86138	Since we are actually harmonising our legislation with the European acquis, I think we should do it as a whole. Let's say for us now in animal trafficking, living animals need seven documents to track them, of course that requires the cost of animal owners. Personally, I think we should accept this amendment because health supervision is being done on the farm. So if he follows a health certificate, the animal does not need to have a re-examination of loading and unloading. If the animal is distributed to the slaughterhouse, then it is settled in Article 83 of this Act. That's why I think you should accept it, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86139	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth, too, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86140	The sixth is also not accepted. The disinfection of the means of transport is an extremely important measure to prevent the prevention of infectious animal diseases and the ZONOZA of the protection of the health of products of animal origin, and to carry out the same education, equipment is needed and the means are therefore necessary to ensure that disinfection is performed by legal and natural persons registered for its exercise.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86141	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86142	I actually wanted to implement the practice in law with this amendment. For example, veterinarians, i.e. authorised institutions, thus neither overseeing or disinfecting vehicles because they are practically neither able to participate in any loading or unloading and are doing so either by the owners of the vehicle or by the owners of the animals. So only in exceptional measures would it be necessary, such surveillance would be required, such supervision would then have to be followed by a certain certificate. In other words, not only is this implemented but authorised institutions, i.e. veterinarians, issue certain documentation as well as in this previous document, which only collects actual costs in the livestock section. So it's not true that they're not educated animal owners. They must also have certificates and they have passed certain training. They can also document this by keeping the so-called disinfection barriers on their farms. So they're trained, which means disinfection.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86143	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seventh, MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86144	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86145	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eighth, Zvonimir Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86146	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86147	It becomes an integral part of the law. The ninth, MP Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86148	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86149	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth, same MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86150	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86151	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 11th, also representing Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86152	Eleven is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86153	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-28-0.u86154	The 11th has been withdrawn. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes for, 15 abstentions and 6 against, passed, passed law along with the amendments accepted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I draw the conclusion: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out the regulation of the law before its publication in the "National Journal". Please vote. The result? 81 for, uh, 7 co-starred. It's just the conclusion that a professional service is authorized to perform an editorial before the publication in the People's Newspaper. We're going to discuss this bill. It's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
