ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88867	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We continue to work at the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a decision to declare "National Work Protection Day" is proposed by the government. State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vera Babic believes there is no need to explain the proposal. The Committee on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health? I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88868	Dear President, Mrs Babic, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal for a decision to declare "National Work Protection Day" as a contribution to promoting protection at work and raising awareness of the need to implement protection at work for both employers and employees, labour protection as an integral part of production and economic growth, not as imposed and unnecessary costs. It is known that there are injuries to work in the world and that we are also one of the public health problems. Because of these, billions of working days are lost and even more significant treatment and rehabilitation costs are injured with resulting loss of health or life, i.e. working ability and disability. The International Labour Organisation and the World Health Organization estimate that around 2 million workers die each year, with 260 million work injuries and a large number of cases of professional illnesses. Due to the absence of work in order to suffer injuries caused by work and occupational diseases, about 4% of gross social products are lost annually. More than 20,000 work injuries are recorded in Croatia annually. From 1985 to 1995, the number of injuries to work was constantly decreasing. From 1996 to 2000, the rate ranged from a thousand to a thousand 753 to a hundred thousand. In 2001 and 20002, the rate continued to fall, in order to increase the number of accidents at work in 2003. And that number was 23 thousand 042. In 2004, the number of accidents at work was reduced by 4.7 compared to 2003, amounting to 21 thousand 950. And here we have to point out, so we have a reduction in the number of work injuries with an increase in the number of insurances by 1.7%. In 2005, there was a further increase in insurance by 2.7 and the number of injuries was still 304 lower than in 2003. The overall labour injury rate that occurred at the workplace in 2005 is the lowest in the last four years. Unfortunately, fatal injuries occur, and over the past period, the number of deaths ranged from 21 thousand '99. until 34 2004 and 46 in 2005 In the highest percentage of accidents at work occur at the workplace, over 80%. And when it comes to activities, they are most common in the processing industry, in construction and forestry. Every year, 68 million to 157 million new cases of professional illnesses are recorded worldwide. 30 to 50% of workers around the world are exposed to physical, chemical, biological dangers, are overly burdened with heavy physical efforts or are working under inappropriate ergonomic conditions. The same number of employees complain about psychological overload in work that leads to stress, particularly in the current era of globalisation and transition. In the Republic of Croatia, professional diseases have been regularly monitored since 1990 and since 1990. By 2000, a thousand 849 professional diseases were reported, no more than '95. 372. In 2000, for example, there were 81, 2003. 122, 2004. 103 and 2005 116. But the number of professional illnesses is certainly far greater, but they are unrecognized or undiagnosed, since the issue of diagnostics has not been resolved. Namely, the cost of diagnostics was borne by a worker suspected of professional illness and the position of workers following the assessment of the disability commission is often unfavourable. But now we've made some important moves. The '96 protection law. In addition to other provisions, it introduces: Making an assessment of the dangers, training for working in a safe way, testing of machines and devices with increased risk, testing in the working environment, then working protection committees, the work of which shall be attended by an employee, a specialist in medical work and an employer’s authorisation. Finally, we have a new Health Protection Act that will systematically address some unresolved issues so far. All of these will make work protection more effective with a reduction in the number of accidents at work, occupational diseases and diseases related to work. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal to declare the day 28th of April as the National Work Protection Day. Protection on work which is an integral part of production and a significant factor in economic development and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88869	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88870	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary! The Croatian party's club of rights will also support the proposal for a decision to declare "National Work Protection Day". It's a shame we haven't discussed this proposal before because April 28th is proposed to declare it a National Work Protection Day, so we could have done it this year. I'll briefly just look back at the 2005 and 2006 data related to the death and the severity of the injuries. In 2005, according to State Inspectorate, 45 people were killed and a thousand 055 people were seriously injured. In 2005, it also took place in the classification of both the methodology and the 22 joint accidents. This means that more than one person participated, and so in the 22 groups, 46 people were seriously injured. In 2006, data indicate that 46 people were killed, and a thousand 029 were seriously injured by 19 joint accidents in 2006 where 42 people were seriously injured. In fact, all of this is about the part that we need to take other measures, and above all we need to appeal to all employers. The problem is that they consider security as a cost. This is one of the biggest problems, because this is how all these accidents happen because workers do not have adequate means of protection at work. The more pressing problem in all this is that workers are undeclared, black workers, so there is a situation that even such situations are reported to the State Inspectorate, there have been such cases, although the obligation to report to the State Inspectorate means the obligation to report to the Ministry of the Interior without saying what is the situation when the suffering of a person who is not at all registered for the exercise of rights, for protection. Then you have a variety of situations when they happen, let's say, bigger these common accidents, that then employers as such go into bankruptcy and there's no possibility of achieving their rights at all. So there are more of these situations, but well in certain parts and inspectors by adopting amendments and a valuable Law on the work of the State Inspectorate, they still have powers that can work in view of the former situation that existed. It is therefore necessary to strengthen this inspection with regard to the number of inspectors and certainly to take account of how and how future potential injuries are protected, i.e. to insist on this part that all employers are required to comply with legal obligations in the sense of ensuring all measures and means for the purpose of protection at work. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88871	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88872	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, The proposal to determine the national day of protection at work will surely be supported by the Croatian Party of Retired Persons, and that day, on that day, is otherwise marked annually, i.e. the International Day of Remembrance of the Dead and Victims on April 28th of each year. So also because I have been professionally focused on this area and I have worked for a good 10 years in this system, I appreciate the need to say for this Assembly speaker that we have a system that has a solid legislative framework, but its implementation in practice is very thick. However, this system is not yet fully closed, it has its own indetermination, it has even certain conflicts of interest in the system itself, but it is fair to say that we have a legislative framework that is very solid and that is suitable for other systems of Western Europe and what is important to say is at least until 2003, as far as I remember, built on social dialogue, so I would once say to a strong dialogue between the social partners, so representatives of the union, representatives of employers, representatives of the authorities, but also professional institutions in the Republic of Croatia who made their contribution to defining this legislative framework. But we can't stop at that. I don't feel like anything significant has happened in the last three or four years, except that we've passed the Health Insurance Act for people on the job. So it's practically the only newspaper in the system right now. In front of the Croatian party of pensioners and as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, I gave the initiative to hold a thematic session of the Committee on the status of the work protection system, but also on the topic of the burning problems of working with asbestos in the Republic of Croatia that has not yet been held. Also in front of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party when adopting the Law on Health Insurance of Health Protection at Work, we have given one conclusion, which is also accepted, which is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out an analysis within 6 months of the compliance of the Labour Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act and other laws and regulations defining this area. It shall be determined according to the degree of functionality of the system and shall propose concrete measures and procedures for uniting and improving the system of protection at work and deliver the same to the Croatian Assembly. So six months have passed, I haven't noticed that some, or that some, have been analysed and some concrete measures have been proposed. I want to believe that very soon this will be over and that it will be presented to the Croatian public, because the state of the work protection system is not bright, but it is very worrying. Global estimates estimate damages from work injuries and occupational diseases in each economy at 4% of gross social product, which is a high amount to be ignored, i.e. to throw out as our coasters say, salt in the sea, because it is simply something that cannot but must be acted on, so today, today's civilizational achievements of Croatian society in some way oblige us to deal with this, and I have the impression that very little we do. Of course, the national day of protection at work is just one possible element in a series of all elements that we have to take to raise the state of the system to a higher level. I've got a little bit of a different data on work-related injuries and professional illnesses. The number of labour injuries has been constantly growing since 2001 when it was at 21 thousand by 2006 when we arrived at 25 thousand and 32 injuries at work. The number of injuries to thousands of workers varies since 2001 when 16.7 were injured by 1,000 workers by 17.45 2006 with only one amplitude in 2004 when there were 18.7 injured workers injured by thousands of workers. The death toll, the cases were also in 2003. 47 cases. He had a sudden jump since 2002 when there were 30 deaths to continue the trend in 37 2004, 45 deaths in 2005 and 45 cases in 2006. Also, the number of deaths at work and in relation to work also revolves somewhere between 50 and 60 cases. The number of professional illnesses is very, can be interpreted differently. It is in a population, in a population decline, but in a ten-year period it is very indicative of data from 1995 to 1999 when we had between 150 and 300 occupational diseases at work which has to do with early retirements. Both with disability pensions and with everything that's happened in the pension system or out of the system, the disability system from the pension system. So it's in one causal, causal and consequential relationship, and I think the figures are related to professional, professional diseases from 2000 to beyond much more concrete and much more credible than they were from 1995 to 2000. It is very important to point out that the number of days lost has risen above a million and 110 thousand for labour injuries and for professional illnesses. So he broke that million-dollar magic line back in 2005 when there were 1 million and 65,000 lost working days. And it is increasing in continuity and particularly there was a major leap between 2003 and 2004 when the number of days lost rose from 584 thousand to 959 thousand. It's definitely a huge jump that requires a special, special analysis. I have here two very useful reports about how others see us. Not how we judge ourselves, but how others see us. In 2002, senior health protection and safety specialist at work Mrs. Any Rice was on the International Labour Organisation's advisory mission in the Republic of Croatia and gave her opinion, so her findings to the Ministry, then to the Ministry of Labour. Not much of this, some institutes have respected themselves. Some measures have been taken, but I don't think this report has been sufficiently consumed. Then, at the invitation of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, the lady was also on an advisory mission in Croatia from 5 to 8 December 2005 and it is very interesting that she recorded this last visit just over a year ago to the Republic of Croatia. So first of all, he says: The Department of Labour Protection within the then Ministry of Labour and Social Care has been demoted to a mere department within the new Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. The former Bureau had a wide range of responsibilities and mainly focused on supporting those who needed it. So the Ministry of Labour, Labour Inspectors, social partners by raising awareness and promoting work protection issues and by preparing texts and recommendations for labour protection standards. The main objective of the department now seems to be to ensure that the provisions of the European Union are transposed into the labour protection legislation. So there is no dimension of systematic planning and systematic development of work protection. One of the recommendations taken from the 2002 International Labour Organisation report is the development of a national protection policy at work in 2004. The National Council for Protection at Work with several ministries, the Institute for Labour Protection and the Institute for Public Health. The Croatian Employment and Social Partners Institute submitted a draft plan to the government in 2005 through 2009. The programme is of very high quality, a good document drawn up by consensus of all relevant partners except the Ministry of Finance, however, is not high on the government's priority list and its development has slowed down. At the time of the mission, the draft programme was forwarded to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which was due to come up with proposals for the draft but had already been overrun two months earlier. In accordance with government rules and procedures for each document, a financial analysis of the estimated costs of implementation should be drawn up. As a consequence of all the difficulties and the marked lack of attention the government is paying to the National Programme, it is understandable that members of the National Council for Protection at Work have been demoralised. Since protection at work in the country and in view of their role in prevention, the National Work Protection Council is the advisory body of the Government and it would be quite correct that if the Government formed an advisory body to respect and respect its guidelines, recommendations and, or certain plans and programmes. So since the government is increasingly emphasising economic priorities, it is becoming increasingly difficult to promote the basic aspects of prevention in the framework of work protection, which contributes to the weakening of the spirit of especially labour protection professionals and social partners. The Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine, which according to the findings of this mission, has also progressed in its activities and is promoting the system of protection at work, is quite a bit concerned about the lack of the aspect of prevention in their mandate. So neither of us are dealing with a prevention that is essentially what is missing in our system. Our labour inspection is also more focused towards and it says in the law what is not good, it is aimed at punishing both employers and workers, not at prevention and counselling. So that's one important, huge lack of this system. I also know that it has been a short time since the adoption of the Health Insurance Act so that the entire system could develop because the projected development of the system bonus malace and the development of different risks systems due to injuries to work. Therefore, that employer who has an increased risk of pay more than the one who conducts good protection at work. I want to believe that we are still in time to launch certain initiatives and build the system. In this context, I will propose to this High House four proposals for conclusions that are currently focused on this debate, which are currently focused on upgrading and developing a work protection system. And once again, the Croatian Party of Retired Party supports making a decision on determining the National Work Protection Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88873	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88874	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing we're declaring the National Work Protection Day. It is good that public attention will, at least once a year, be a little more focused on the problem of labour loss and occupational illnesses, and this could then boost the awareness of everyone in this country in order to protect ourselves from work, and we need to commit more seriously than we have done so far. In April of last year, a round table on “The importance of health protection and safety at work in the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union” was held at the Croatian Institute of Medicine last year. The objective of the round table was to point out the importance of regulating the area of health protection and safety at work in the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as well as the changes that will bring Croatia's legislation into line with the recommendations and directives of the European Union in this area. What information could have been heard at that gathering. It has been learned that around 23,000 work injuries are being recorded in Croatia today, that we have about 800 badly injured with permanent consequences, and that in 2006, there were 46 deaths at work. Medical work services in Croatia should focus on preventing work injuries and on treatment and rehabilitation. This should introduce a multi-disciplinary approach, which today is not the case in Croatia. Croatia has largely harmonised legislation on the safety and protection of workers' health. However, laws are not implemented and there is neither a harmonised, strong and effective institutional protection system at work. A billion and a half kuna is lost due to sickness. More than 200 million kunas per year amount to only the cost of treating sick people. Despite these dizzy figures, we are still underinvested in the reduction of sick days, as well as the prevention of diseases that are directly related to work. Of course, the greatest culprit is an undeveloped awareness that investment in health, not the treatment of disease, is a good investment, not a cost. Employers still don't realize that it's cheaper to pay for protective equipment than to pay for the victims. Unfortunately, most of our employers who pay dearly for their own cheapness, and there are those who may be willing to enter that investment, but they have no idea how to do it. Both should be aware that they are bound by law to protect the health of their employees. According to the Labour Protection Act, the employer is responsible for the safety and health of the workplace, i.e. his job is to provide a job without harm to the health of workers. Moreover, the new Health Insurance Act, health protection at work, sets new obligations for employers, including the return of mandatory systematic checks. In Croatia, preventive checks are carried out only ten per cent of workers. Moreover, we do not have data on the impact of the workplace on health damage unless the primary cause is a professional illness or a work injury. When job damage is only one of the causes of disability, the impact of this disability is not recorded at all. HZZO records very low costs related to professional diseases and returns the employers part of the neutral assets. Such a policy has resulted in the fact that so far, the employer has not forced anything to remove harmful working conditions. Therefore, declaring Work Protection Day is good, but it's just a declarative move that won't help to fix bad things much. The government is still expected more, much more, the question is just how realistic these expectations are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88875	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88876	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the proposal to declare the National Work Protection Day as a day of memory of the dead workers with the hope that those who pass laws, especially those who are responsible for implementing and implementing the law, will remind us of the meaning of the motto of the International Day of Remembrance of the deceased workers, and the motto reads: “We remember the dead, we fight for the living!” This year we should have remembered the 46 deaths in 2006. Dead memories, and through memory we have to ask ourselves what and how much we fight for the living. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, explaining the proposal for a decision, says: “In order to raise awareness of the need for damage to work, the Government considers it justified to declare in the Republic of Croatia on 28 April the National Day of Work Protection.” Of course we have to ask ourselves, and whose consciousness? To irresponsible employers, this appeal means nothing. They do not mean anything to them, nor do they mean laws whose application is not properly controlled. Raising awareness is needed with us lawmakers but at present even more to the Government of the Republic of Croatia with all its ministries. We don't want to argue that our laws are ideal. But we formally did our part of the job, we passed the Labour Protection Act, we passed the Professional Rehabilitation Act, we passed the Labour Act as well as a series of other laws. That should calm our conscience that must upset the data that since '99. By 2006 153 cases of professional illness were registered annually. With this, according to the government, over 75% of cases of such diseases remain unreported. That's where the question has to be asked and why? Because of the lack of protection of the professionally ill. How? Well, here's how. The application of the Pension Insurance Act from 1.1.1999 abolishes the rights conferred on employees by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act on the basis of the remaining work and health skills. The right to deploy, i.e. employment in other relevant jobs, has been abolished. The right to work with reduced working hours, the right to requalification, to qualify, and the right to an adequate amount of salary. All these rights were translated on the official duty of disability pension due to professional incompetence to work. The height of that pension depends on what right has been recognised to an employee before the new law enters into force, and on the fact that he is disabled or unemployed. These pensions are inadmissiblely low, so the worker knows that he can't work part-time, that he won't be assigned to the relevant jobs to keep his professional illness quiet, continues to work in hopes of maintaining employee status. However, he will lose his job as soon as the employer does not give the expected and required working effect. So there are evident shortcomings in the law that can't even correct the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, because in the abundant offer of healthy people, it's hard for someone to hire a requalified invalid. On the other hand, the existing good solutions by law guaranteeing the rights are greatly violated, and the employer is most often not responsible for this. Saving too often violates the Labour Protection Act. The reference protection at work among the first became a technological surplus because employers quickly realized that prevention is an unnecessary cost, as the sufferer will be easily resolved. The Labour Act allows for excessive work with strict restrictions. However, employers force workers to work overtime even when there is no legal basis. So, for example. So many overtime hours were shown in the store that 12,000 new jobs could be opened. The number of unproduced overtime hours is estimated to be far higher. The labour law and the International Agreement establish Sunday as the day of the week's vacation. Nevertheless, employers force Sundays to work and when there is no direct need for it. Workers are rarely not allowed to use their vacations. All this affects the health of workers. The law protects them, but the laws do not apply and there is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's obvious that she should think carefully about the contents of the motto, "Let's remember the dead, we're fighting for the living.". In these circumstances, it is irrational to expect that this decision will raise awareness of the need to implement protection at work. Indeed, work protection has a social and economic aspect. The lack of efficacy and inability of protection endangers health, leads to an increase in disease. Employers solve this problem by firing. The employer is primarily interested in profit. The government's priority should be human and general well-being. The interests of the employer and the state should not be in collegiate. These relations alone need to be well regulated by law, and even more important is law enforcement. In modern countries, employers are well aware of the harmfulness of working protection. Unfortunately, he won't be aware of it for much longer, he won't be aware of it until the risk of lack of protection is borne by the worker himself. So the Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club supports the draft decision. However, from the very fact that we will have on April 28th as the National Work Protection Day will not be of great benefit unless they are well-lawed, but even more important is the implementation of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88877	HSLS club, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the 28th of April was named National Work Protection Day, and since '96. In 120 countries in the world, it is marked as the International Day of Remembrance of Death Workers, those killed by diseases caused by adverse effects at work, injured and ill at work and in relation to work. We in Croatia have a large number of laws and regulations that represent legal and sublegal protection at work. However, regardless of the fact, we can say that the protection has not yet reached the level at which workers would be satisfied. Because it's not enough to have good laws and regulations if they don't fully apply. So if we look at the statistics of various accidents and diseases at work, it will really back up the fact that I just said it. So, here's just some data from last year for construction work of 150,000 436 workers, and we had 2 thousand 769 injuries at work. Half of all the dead workers, 23 of them, were killed in construction sites. And every day when we walk past the construction site, we'll notice that many of them still don't even have the elemental protection, which is the helmet on their head. It is hard to believe that it is merely a desire to save business in the field of protection at work, but probably something and a lack of habits, as well as necessary controls. Therefore, full implementation of the Labour Protection Act, investment in prevention and protection policies that must become part of the quality policy and an essential factor in the business policy of each company, and I believe that employers are sufficiently aware that they do not think that this is a source of savings by not investing in protection at work. Maybe one more thing from the statistics to be warned about today. Of course not enough to declare that day alone. I think the facts should be repeated precisely with the intention of making them come to their senses and having measures as a consequence. So according to statistics for the past 2006 most injured workers said it was in the processing industry. In 2006, 46 of which half of them worked in construction sites died, but assessing the risks and number of employees according to the number of injuries and deaths, however, were the most dangerous in forestry. According to the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Health Insurance and the State Statistics Institute and the Ministry of Economy can be talked about workers and injuries of 9,000 705 of which 11 people were killed. We assume, however, that the most common job is the desire to make fast money, so there are cases where workers for a number of reasons, and one of them is the fear of being fired, accept all kinds of jobs that the employer imposes on them, and that for such jobs or not trained, trained, or have not undergone any training. We came up with such data from an open phone of HSLS that was organized last year somewhere in the spring, where usually workers who reported and wanted to stay anonymous because of fear of sanctions. Most often, newly employed workers who usually employ the employer for a certain period of time are not familiar with the relationships and dangers in the workplace. Unfortunately, we still have a large number of black workers, who have not been reported at all, and in the event of the loss of these workers, they have no right in the event of an accident at work, and that is why we must do everything we can to ensure that such work is not, that it is strictly sanctioned, that it is not paid to the employer himself. Employers often try to avoid the application of the laws of the prescribed measures and to a minimum reduce the allocation of means of protection at work despite rather high penalties, but penalties are a theory if inspectors do not come out and these penalties do not come into reality or if everything does not end in slow courts and statutes. The penalties may therefore increase further, but it would be much more effective, or it would probably be more effective to face the problem of carrying out inspections and leaving inspectors on the ground. In inspections, inspectors filed 1680 requests last year to the competent criminal court, 98 applications to the State's attorney for the initiation of criminal proceedings. It will be interesting to see how many of these proceedings will indeed end in courts and what sanctions they will be. Because if there are no or no sharp sanctions, then this is really just about advice that he does not need to listen to or can be treated as an eye closed before the fact. Last year, we also asked for an increase in the number of inspectors and the number of inspections carried out to protect workers' rights, as the most common cause of injury and fatal injury is precisely the work against the rules of protection at work and faulty protection equipment. When we talk about the rights of workers, then, of course, they should not only be aware of this part that we could conditionally call technical protections at work but might talk again and about measures to protect them from working on black, from unpaid work, overtime. It may be easier to declare a day of protection at work than to really solve the problem of labour rights, so I invite you to consider our proposal at the third reading of the Labour Act and accept it, because by keeping quiet about the real rights of workers and speaking only declaratively about some points, I fear that we are closing our eyes to a factual state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88879	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate now. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So exactly what Mrs. Vice President's apostrophe said was very easy to declare one day this year, or at any year, a national day of protection at work. We are in the SDP, and here I am personally, I want to draw attention not to any work but to the work of a decent man and to a decent salary for that work. Today speaking to the unemployed about protection at work seems to be some luxury in Croatia where there are now more than 300 thousand unemployed, and the number of unemployed in the summer tourist construction season is somewhat reduced. However, the number of employees in industry and agriculture has been steadily reduced and is stagnating in crafts and entrepreneurship. You see, even when we talk about protection at work and when we've articulated this problem a dozen years ago, we've been trying to defuse this problem that today I'd say escalated as if it were a luxury, like a relic of the past. However, the injuries at work, but not only these physical injuries, but the mental one, then the worker is bored because he is asked not only to work for 8 hours, but long ago the principle of eight hours of work of eight hours of sleep and free commitment, that is, the engagement of every man. Today the worker also works when he has the opportunity to work full-time for 8 hours, works far more. He's working overtime. This overtime is not paid for without talking about Saturdays and Sundays. I'd especially like to apostrophe the work of women at the store. Under what conditions do they often work? You have such employers who are not anonymous, owners of large trade chains where women work, in the winter it's cold summer they're intolerable heat. This quarter recorded the unremembered work of unemployed women so that the percentage compared to unemployed men in the first quarter of 2007 was over 62%. And when I get back, here's what you do specifically now to protect the worker in the workplace. True, the first inspections were called, but this is the last step and the zeroes of the line when everything else failed. What's our attitude towards work at all? There's little talk at all about affirmation of work, there's a little talk about the fact that work creates a new value. We're all simply obsessed with that capital, like it's an external force, like it's some kind of dead object. These are the owners of people who have that capital and who want to maximise the profits of exhausting workers to the limit. So these work injuries, that work protection is not just physical, it's physical security at work, it's also psychological. People get hurt on their own women who are burdened with family affairs, or home affairs, and that's something special I'd say apostrophe and distraction. We won't be able to do this by increasing the number of inspections, we won't be able to even establish special working courts, or by making a misdemeanor procedure and criminal courts more effective. Of course, it's all necessary, but that's the end of it. What is missing in our value and our social value, which is precisely an affirmation of work, of workers, of his position in that place. So, it's not a rare situation, we're witnessing a few months ago that this ruthless capital, so a man was killed by a pensioner who was a worker in that big company that comes to us from the Netherlands, where even our judges acquired knowledge from international law, international conventions, behold wonders in the country of the Netherlands, but who, when such an employer comes here, doesn't care about man or our nature. So that's something that we have to decide for ourselves whether to define ourselves or send a very short telegram. I've already quoted, and I'm going to quote that article from one of our weekbooks again, "Here you go." Like Eldorado for your dump poison and waste does not care for our people or our nature. Even though we are witnessing that, even if the government is valued, if you insist on applying your own laws, we will lift the anchor and go, for example, to Hungary. Do we need that kind of capital? Therefore, what is important to mention once again, but we are not for any work. Work that is worthy of man, work because the worker in that place will be protected and paid with dignity. We are witnessing, unfortunately, and these devastating facts that have been re-escalating a monster that we had in the 1990s, not paying for not only overtime, but also non-payment, i.e. short of paying the worker. Here, you go to the courts, and then here we move the ball to an inefficient judiciary. There is no such justice in the world that could absorb all these social phenomena and negativitys that arise from the possibility of someone, or those stronger ones, acting that way. When the government sends a message that it is not possible to behave this way, then both those offenders and those potential offenders will be fewer, and then we will have fewer problems with our other institutions. So this is a question that Europe doesn't pressure us so much. Have you ever heard of a problem about a worker being unprotected? Has his salary been paid? We are not pressured by Europe for this, it is only seeking to have its capital in this segment, as far as this relationship is concerned, the working relationship is being protected, and what we can do to do that, it is good, but our original task is to protect those weakest, those who have no intention but to live honestly from their work. I think you can do that, but the government needs to show that she cares about it, that I'm telling the affirmative one more time about the value of the work. Let's not forget, it's just work that creates a new value. An unprotected worker must do so not only for the sake of satisfaction and concern, the primary task he has toward his own citizens, but also for the protection of his funds. A workman who is not paid, who is underpaid, who is exhausted at work, where she is kindly looking at or not sanctioning adequately, or very strictly, falls back on our budget funds. So here is this, supporting the proposal for a decision to declare "National Work Protection Day" let it be a simple invitation for us to turn to the one who creates all the values in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88881	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I support this decision to declare "National Work Protection Day", but by the way, I also point out some criticism to the promoter for not actually taking advantage of the proposal for this decision, and that something a little more than through this nerdy explanation is talking about the problem of protection at work, because I am still afraid that with one part of last year's laws that we have passed, we haven't really moved, let alone changed the situation of things in this area, and we actually seem to be discussing this today, we are discussing a good gesture. So we will get another national day that will be conveniently marked, and at the same time we will not solve anything in improving protection at the work of all our employees. In fact, it should actually be asked how work protection works today in Croatia, what is meant by protection at work in Croatia? And I think that this opportunity should be warned and said that in Croatia, only 10% of the workers are entitled to that specific health care, and only when they go to those checks that are assigned to them by the regulation, depending on the results of the review, the worker gets what is capable or incapable of working in his workplace. What should be said is that workers are not regularly examined for reduced ability to work, disabled workers, disabled persons, or anything seems to adjust their workplace to their health and physical abilities. In Croatia, unfortunately, the purpose of the review is not like that in the European Union. In the European Union, it is estimated, on the basis of the examination of workers, whether working conditions are the cause of incompetence of workers and whether the workplace is the cause of reduced ability and whether it is necessary to change the workplace and whether it can be adapted to the worker. It kind of seems like a since fiction here in Croatia. In Croatia, the purpose of the review is to satisfy the legal provision and what may be the worst in everything when the worker is incapacitated for his work, the labour protection inspector prohibits him from any work he has done until then if it is a job with special working conditions. In reality, often a worker remains jobless, either as a technical surplus or as a person who has no job, and neither the labour protection inspector nor a specialist in medicine actually has insight into the job itself nor has any impact on the employer’s decision. In particular, the question is, there's a lot of talk about when it's generally talked about the position of workers in his workplace, what does protection at work really mean for us? I still think that unfortunately it's still understood when you say protection at work, then we all think about some kind of protective helmet, shoes, department protection, gloves and the like. And what is called psychosocial working conditions and what are these psychosocial working conditions, unfortunately in Croatia we still don't talk about much or too much. And regarding work protection and job position, of course, the question arises, and what are the powers, possibilities or achievements of our labour inspectors or our work inspectors? I'll give an example. Recently, two, three months ago, I was in Varazdin on one of the stands where I received information, so it was somewhere in March of the month, in a furniture factory in the brusion where they bras, process furniture, the employer shut down or shut down the ventilation and workers and workers who worked there were forced to work in that dust only with those simple masks on their faces. Or at the same factory, the employer again had to be satisfied because of saving the whole winter, and then the workers and the workers had to be satisfied because the winter was relatively warm, so they managed to handle the waste that they had to do because there was no ventilation, cover their feet with some blankets and so forth. Regrettably, report this to a labour protection inspection or expect that an employer will be adequately punished, of course, not to say what the result is. When we talk about psychosocial working conditions, then of course it is related, we all talk too many overtime hours that our workers do. I would say, I remembered, we don't have to go into any kind of chain of commerce or any other trade, let's remember our debate about the situation in the prison system, and let's remember how many overtimes so not legally, overtime hours are done by the workers who work in the prison system. Of course it's a state institution. So when things can't change around here, then I wonder how it could be with a private. How and how, therefore, too many overtime hours, too many and not accessible norms we have, not having regular weekly vacations, how only one part affects the health of our workers. And finally, as far as they're actually known, I would now say this and some of the particular medical work specialists who point out that it's actually extremely bad not to say a catastrophic situation when it comes to worker health. And not at the age when they came to the door of retirement, but unfortunately getting younger and younger. When it comes to psychosocial working conditions, I also have to mention here the problem of psychological abuse at work. Namely, I can tell you that in part this kind of abuse was recognized through the current Labour Act, but absolutely not enough because unfortunately, it remained at the level that somewhere in the law we have certain provisions, but actually in practice when you want to achieve something in your protection, then unfortunately you encounter a complete wall and inability to exercise your rights. And then it's no wonder that we don't really know how many diseases, how many permanent health consequences, and I'd say early retirement, is precisely because of the poor psychosocial conditions of the workplace, because of the different kinds of abuses primarily psychologically. And then, of course, as someone has already said in this case when we had a bill on health insurance of health care and health at work, it is said in fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are a large number of prematurely retired workers but there are no data on the impact of the workplace on health damage except when the primary cause is a professional illness or injury to work. When the disability of the workplace is one of the causes of disability, the impact of this disability is not recorded at all, and this will be until we also re-affirm medical professionals because one primary health care doctor can't even expect to be able to recognise the adverse impact of the workplace in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88883	At 10 and 32, it's past ten minutes' notice time. We have one replica of Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88884	I think fellow Sobol, you've been well apostropheeded and I think there's room for this debate to talk about protection at work or by declaring the National Work Protection Day, when you talked about the psychological abuse that many workers are exposed to in Croatia. In fact, the Croatian worker is unpunished. Many of the workers we have identified here already in the debate and you and I are working on dangerous underpaid jobs, accepting longer working hours, unpaid overtime, having little or no protection. They're just afraid to ask, and when they're aware of their rights, they're paid to seek protection, and then they're additionally what you're saying, they're even more frustrated and sick because that's what a man feels. Not only is his life threatened physically then, his family's life, but he is threatened by the elementary satisfaction of justice, to work without being able to get paid or by someone else's right to do so. Shut up, he says shut up. Also, in state services what you say. That's what the vacancy attorney's been warning about for the second year in a row. About this condition, which is particularly exposed to prison guards in prisons. So if the state itself allows it then it's... privates, so why should they respect the laws and adhere to the Labour Act and other regulations that protect workers if the state itself does not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, by declaring and supporting the National Day of Protection at Work, which is the Government's proposal, we will best testify if the state itself behaves and protects itself above all else and fulfils all those rights that it has promised and which have legal basis for its employees, officials, tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88885	Mrs. Gordana Sobol's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88886	Well, colleagues Ingrid is right. Unfortunately, in Croatia, when it comes to the achievement of the protection of labour rights or the right to do so, I would say so, in a healthy workplace and trying to protect the worker primarily to monitor that feeling of fear, that is correct. The primary fear of losing a job. Namely, this is something that our workers and workers across Croatia are actually faced with. And unfortunately, I don't see any indication right now that from any level, I'm primarily talking about government, I'm talking about GSV. So to try to do something from that level. In fact, until that time until I say so, the case law shows that it protects the person who has been abused until then, in a very small number of cases, workers will decide to report employers and to conduct litigation. And other information that seems to me to be extremely important and that we often forget, which is that our workers and workers are not educated, they are uninformed, they don't even know what rights they have. So here's one survey piece of data from the "Mobbing" association and it's about mental abuse at the workplace of a thousand 150 respondents who participated in over 70% of them don't even know that there are measures of legal protection against harassment and abuse in the workplace and a quarter of them don't know whether the employer is aware of the negative consequences of the work itself, so here's a chance that our unions are working on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88887	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Marko Turic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88888	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Marking the National Work Protection Day since 1989, Canada will introduce the public and raise awareness of the importance and need of work protection in view of the social and economic aspects of protection at work. Croatia's legislation on labour protection is largely in line with European Union guidelines. In 1996, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Protection in Work on Amendments and Supplements of the 2003 Law on the basis of years of Croatian experience, solutions have been incorporated to facilitate the application of the law by employers, increase the effectiveness of labour inspection and allow for greater participation of workers in the problem of work protection. Rights, obligations and responsibilities relating to labour protection are governed in a direct or indirect manner by the rules of labour law, pension and disability insurance, health insurance and health care, the Law on Violation, collective agreements and technical and other regulations. The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work has also been established in order to provide specific health insurance for workers. As an important task in order to strengthen professional, material, human resources, the establishment of a new Institute for Health and Safety at Work will also contribute to the long-term improvement of the situation in this area. It is important for this area and for the activities of the National Council for Protection in Work which, as an advisory body, has received a very important role and in whose work together with the representatives of the social partners, participates and acknowledges the experts and representatives of the associations. It is certainly necessary to mention here the Health Safety Insurance Act adopted in 2006 and which fully regulates health insurance for health care at work. The law is fully in line with European standards. The employer is more responsible for safety and health at the workplace and, with the establishment of a risk assessment that determines the risk of health damage at the place of work and the systematic increase of the status in protection at work and the quality of the health of workers will be certainly and greater. The following can be said that we have good legal regulations and good measures that, by actively contributing to all those representing bodies, institutions, organisations responsible for action in the field of health protection and safety at work, should, of course, continue to be applied consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88889	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88890	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, perhaps a little bit of a ton of my discussion will deviate from the main course of the mission of so far's debates. I'm a little skeptical about that inflation of different days. I think there may be maybe one more day in Croatia right now than there are days in the year. Day of the dead, day of the living, day of the children, day of battle against breast cancer, day of sugar patients, day of the white stick, day of the animals. According to the old calendar Statehood Day, on a patriotic calendar that became on the coalition calendar of Croatian Parliament Day. So I'm concerned about this inflation of ritual elements in declaring such days without one critical analysis and vision of what our culture should look like. Day of reading, day of unreading, day of literacy, illiteracy, day of water, day of forest, day of planet Earth, day, International Labour Festival and so on and so on. So the first, first element of my skepticism is related to that hyperproduction of different days without any more serious thought of content. The other concerns the uninventivity that I was already speaking about in part about the Day of Combating Breast Labour. I was talking about a great cultural danger because the perception of this organ that is in the process of all sorts of human creation is now experienced through a vicious disease. And in that sense, when it comes to working protection day, it should be thought that one critical analysis should be made about this whole worldly conglomerate and we do not have the right to talk about church and other holidays, days, months, years, and so on, that it may be determined that this day of protection at work is not called such as the day of the carnation. Or I was already saying it's called Narcissus Day instead of breast cancer day. As for the more serious context, we are in a period of transition culture where some people who come forward create... Some kind of cult of bureaucratic impact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday I listened to our mayor Milan Bandic declare himself the third most important man in the country. So there's only Sanader and the President of the Republic in front of him, and the unfortunate president of our High House is somewhere behind him. He says he works 16 hours a day. I beg your pardon, this was not done in the time of slavery. In general, a cult of work is being created today. If a man has a well-organized job, whether he's a university professor or he's the president of the state or he's a minister, he has to be placed within eight hours. Especially since intellectually and physically it is not possible to work productively. It's very dangerous after 8, 9 o'clock, threatening people the death threat of beating up secretaries, causing a car accident, and it happens to some people who work in our ministries. In one upside-down understanding of a culture of work where people go through red lights the night before. They come home humiliated by their masters in various civil offices and harass their own children, neighbors. Their tolerance thresholds are reduced and so on and so forth. So we lived in an artificial world where there was a cult of work. For this cult of work, it meant as much to produce working classes as possible. Mr. Bebić will remember the 50s when there were special troops hunting unfortunate peasants in the fields and driving them into the cities. And they ran to the barns. They didn't want to go into town. But then they'd catch them and put them in the mine. Or the heavy industry. Shorten his life, ruin his life, but in that cult of work, there was created an entire culture that had some of its good elements, Mr. Baby. One of the important good elements was the development of medicine work. One serious profession in Croatia that was part of primary health care. At different times, people dealt with different aspects of the risks of work. I often talk about how work creates a man, but I don't like him especially in some circumstances to defend him against great harm. If you're home, you can get killed on the tram by the time you get to work. You'll get shot in the car by someone. There are a thousand hidden and open labour and life threats lurking at work. So today we need to think about the vision of Croatia. And that's what's been haunting me for months and years. We live from today to tomorrow and no one can imagine what a vision of work in Croatia will look like in 10, 15, 20 years. In which direction should we direct these little children? What are the risks of environmental, spatial, ambience, professional? So what are the experiences, the trials that arise from work? Then I would say something about one element of the danger of the man I often speak of. It's smoking. Smoking, gentlemen, I've been watching some people who have been poisoning down here every day in our High House. First they were mostly destroying auxiliary personnel and non-smokings, and now they're locked up there self-destructively destroying their own lives. And in that area, no one will do anything. The more the President of the Republic claims by smoking to health. If you smoke, you smoke Croatian. You blew it. So, gentlemen, I'd like this problem to come a long way to say a little bit more poetic. Finally, the old communist order of the work cult also had ergonomics as a serious profession that was also humiliated and destroyed. So I'd end up next. It is a good idea for a new group of people to appear from time to time to declare a day of protection at work. And a day of reading. And the day of laziness, and the day of the unemployed, and the day of the old, and the days of the fair, and the day of the evil. And the day of whatever you want, the day of freedom of the media. But as a society, we must have one global vision. Otherwise, we get into a situation that's always ahead of us that we don't see forests from many trees in all areas. And that is why I will certainly support this idea with a great skepticism, but I would like to appeal therefore when we talk about this problem we try to approach it synthetically from the point of view of the development of Croatian culture, Croatian society and Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88891	Thank you very much. I'll confirm when you mentioned '53. The year a man was taken to forced labor on Christmas. Then, when he came to Mline to Dubrovnik, he said: “How could you bring me here, and at home I had a wife, children, and Christmas! ” The first is Mr. Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed Professor Letica said in his inspired speech so far, among other things, the principles of ergonomics. I'm afraid if we're going to open that topic, we should be wondering why we shouldn't be talking about ergonomics anymore. In fact, ergonomics certainly deals as a science with the overall study of lovers and their relationship with the working environment, so that ergonomic principles should be respected in all areas of human activity and especially in the workplace. The objectives of safe ergonomics are primarily to improve working conditions, productivity, safety, comfort, quality of work, and there are among other things 12 principles of ergonomics that should be respected from stress reduction, micro-climate, pleasant working environments, reduction of static muscle activity and certainly that ergonomics is not just noise, climate, i.e. lighting and the like. In any case, the National Work Protection Day must not only be subject to psychosocial working conditions but also to a whole series of ergonomic preconditions that need to be met in order to ensure that this work protection is valued, and among other things you have well mentioned the role of Medical Work which, in any case, in the context of the health care home may have played a very significant role at some point. Whether it's so demoted at this point I don't know, but it should be given more importance and greater role, and among other things, when it comes to the role of home health, then the medical work should also have its meaning. So here I advocate that even under the ergonomic preconditions that must be met especially pay attention to these preconditions and to these principles that I was talking about if you agree as a replica I will be grateful that, eventually, and in this direction, there is development and debate further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88893	Mr. Letica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88894	A fellow Sabbath is not even aware of the root of its own wisdom. In fact, this HSS School of People's Health was founded by large public-health care tribunals, including a large number of ergonomics from that age was from that world of HSS. However, we all came from here. As far as ergonomics is concerned, I'll tell you a colleague, it would be reasonable for these unenlightened judges of the Constitutional Court to consult several ergonomics when they made this absurd decision forcing women to work five years longer. If they had done one serious study only on women's working hours, they would have found that it is even longer than Milan Bandic. So, he works 16 hours, moons in the morning, runs about 5 o'clock, and he's dangerous about 5 o'clock in the afternoon, and the women who are unhappy and then work till 12 o'clock, and then these judges of the Constitutional Court make such a crazy decision, and we keep our mouth shut about it. But we do have Mr. Vice President a great deal of hope, and now it's the judge's election and we're gonna test them. He's gonna have to know something, and he's gonna have to know a fellow baby! He'll have to know something!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88895	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88896	So here I agree with Mr. Letica, who is talking about the appropriate impact of smoking on society as a whole, so also on war, and I agree that there is a need for a systematic fight and the fight of our entire system against the harmfulness of smoking, and it is unacceptable, in fact, that any institution of our system treats this problem kindly. The replica goes to the fact that it's not so black after all. Unfortunately, there are exceptions, but these are just exceptions, so I'm going to say here an example of a quality fight against smoking. There is one company called “Technix” from the Lower King. So her management decided to increase his salary by 10% to every employee in that company who quit smoking from cigarettes. I think in this way the whole system would have to fight against the harmfulness of smoking. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88897	Answer, Mr. Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88898	I insist that my colleague declare the Croatian Parliament the first non-smoking institution in Croatia, because it has symbolic meaning, and in this House is sitting as far as I know 13 doctors. In the last five, six years, he has died of a smoking disease from this House of Highs, at least 5.6 parliamentary deputies. So that's one serious thing. And finally, there is a big problem with the fight against smoking in the countries that produce the spirit, because it is both a strong interest and a large number of employees and a large number of tobacco growers and a Nordic country of Sweden and Norway that only profit and therefore it is much easier to do so and therefore personal examples are very important. As far as I'm concerned, I highly respect people who work in that industry in Croatia. Some of them are friends of mine, one of them is a great tennis player. However, they are already wise enough and they place some of their jobs in other areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88899	Thank you. We have another replica of Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88900	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Letica talking about the dangers that occur after overtime. Here we read recently in the newspaper that, for example, overtime has been observed in a significant party such as the SDP where probably people who work there until late nights hold votes and sure that their arm and fingers are cut off and it's very difficult to drive in that state, and it can also be disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88901	All right, don't be such an association. That's not appropriate. The answer to Mr. Slaven Letica's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88902	You will not bring me to your inter-party accounts. Conforna is my position to have independence. So, who, who, how, I don't want to discuss it in parties. That's certainly your problem. I was talking about some general problems, and I'm glad my colleagues noticed that there was a grain of nonpartisan mind in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88903	Thank you very much. The individual debate is closed. On behalf of the club for five minutes. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88904	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, Your Honor, Madam Representative. She spoke to Mrs. Anticevic about exploiting workers. Of course there are 300 thousand unemployed workers in one country. But in some areas where it may be harder to reach workers than the workplace, we want to say that the worker is holding on like a little bit of water on his palm. Just yesterday, I was working on a work visa for two Labin engineers, and we should go work in the United States for two or three months. And now my boss calls me and says something like this. You tell the Americans they won't stay there because they have better conditions here than they would have in America. Of course, there are exploits. She'll be there. She needs to be stopped. That exploitation should be punished. It should go that far if it's common that these companies should be shut down as well. But again, I mean, it's not exactly the same with everyone. Often small entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are in a worse situation than workers. If there's nothing else like craftsmen, they match all the property, and they don't have Fridays or saints, and you're actually working 16 hours a day. And finally, in this country, anyone who has a salary of three, four thousand kunas with an unemployed person is either at risk if, according to union calculations, a monthly basket or a monthly basket is to be allocated 6 thousand 500 kuna. I agree with Mr. Letica about this parallel Constitutional Court, or women who should retire now at 65 years of life, where they should work 5 years longer, it is really unacceptable and there is something we need to do. And it's a good thing the election's on its own. As far as this Law on the National Work Protection Day is concerned, I think it's a good idea. But what's far more important is to mention that since '96. In the year 120 countries of the world simply marks April 28th as the International Day of Remembrance of Dead Workers, under the motto "Let's remember the dead, we fight for the living."and in the Republic of Croatia in the '96 period. By 2006, an average of 22 to 25 thousand injuries occurred, meaning annually, of which around 800 were severe. The number of fatal injuries in the past period has varied since 21 '99. up to 46 in 2006, and half of these injuries fall to construction. The more it works, the more people in this country are clearly at risk. A large number of wastes and injuries, i.e. damages in shipyards. There is no Croatian shipyard that does not record any deaths annually. It's not just a rough time for a smuggler or for a shipyard, but for a town where that shipyard is located. What's more important than the announcement of that day is how to treat disabled workers, so those who have been killed at work, that's the point. That this disabled person can live peacefully and safely with his disability regardless of the concerns of the wider social community. You should take care of that. If that day sensitizes us to dedicate ourselves to this group of disabled people, then they can indeed live under the quotes "live" then the idea of proclaiming the day should be welcomed. I guess out of 46 dead cases, one part of the waste is not only for construction workers but also for police officers, drivers, security guards. What do we do to prevent accidents? There's not much you can do. Roads are built to make there are fewer deaths, but there may be an accident when making those roads. Then the police are here to protect us, but some cops themselves can get hurt. Protect yourself just the same. And don't let me count on it. For the end, we clearly support this law. Unfortunately, development involves every society and young life, it involves people of the best age, so it's not burning once a year to remember these people, their fates, and perhaps their families, although as a rule after someone leaves we simply leave everything to their family, and those who have lost their loved ones, no one in this country remembers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88905	On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored ladies and gentlemen. I think that fellow Letica actually gave a good slagurd for this actual debate that we should finally begin to distinguish content from form. And very often, as far as the form of things is concerned, we set it up relatively well, we have a whole series of good solutions, decisions, declarations, but it actually shows up when a little scratches, when a little bit of scratch beneath the surface that other than that well-packed form of content doesn't exist. It is not surprising, therefore, that we said on behalf of the HSS Club that there might be anywhere and where wiser first to adopt the final Labour Act, and then actually discuss a day that will be dedicated to work. Labour culture is not something that exists in all civilizations and a sacred relationship to that fact. We kind of inherit this one Protestant philosophy, the Weberovian type where really work has its price, its value. And the whole, good part of our ideology is, in fact, just resting on that idea we took over from Protestantism. So exactly, Weber wrote that a certain, way of believing and in fact deciding what kind of industry we're going to have and what relationship to work is. Of course, within that work there is, that culture of work there is something, that story called an ant and a cricket. Some times in our culture we insisted that the ant is right, and some people still seem that cricket is not exactly an animal and its philosophy is that it should not be rejected in any way. And only if you're looking at a little semantically try to tell this name of the proposal for that day protection at work. This means that actually work is not only joy, but joy and pleasure, but it is precisely that this work is also connected in some way with pressure, associated with some problems, with inconveniences. That is why there should be intervention and there should be certain legal solutions that will contribute to the fact that work is not only an discomfort, only copper, but also in some way people who work to feel if nothing else is at least protected. And then there really opens up a whole series of these topics that have been heard during this debate, but it seems to me that in the name of the club we can't say to be against that fact and to say again... inflation some new days and then we'll simply have a chance to celebrate every day. But we should certainly consider trying to solve what is possible, and that is indeed to deal with what this assembly of Parliament should certainly bring, and that is the Labour Act, going into third reading, we hope that by the summer break or certainly before the Parliament's end of work, that we will pass this law, then we can think much more satisfactorily and joyfully about this day which we will declare to protect those who have this problem to work hard. So first the Labour Act and then the form, and in that form, we also have to think about what philosophy we're going to build, which philosophy we're going to build on because I say it's not unique and it's not worth it to all cultures, all civilizations so it's not worth it to this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88907	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88908	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as said, we will support making this decision on the national day of protection at work. However, we also want to point out some other segments that we have not heard in the debate so far. You know, one is a problem that is related to protection or better said failures that occur in the workplace related to the protection of workers and the consequences that occur when it comes to direct failures, direct deficiencies related to protection at work. But a far more serious question is being raised that is related to the so - called so - called question. indirect influences, on the position of workers in the work and its protection at work. We believe that after 17 years of our independence, stability and economic and social status, the time has come for both these issues to be discussed and that, in fact, a whole series of economic measures and moves to stabilise the social and state community that is transferring to the working population, to the workers, the time has practically come for that part to be set differently. Namely, it doesn't even comply with the Constitution. You see, we have written in the Constitution that every employee has a right to earn money that can provide themselves, a family free and worthy of life, and at the same time we have a publicly declared guaranteed salary that is far below the average necessary means to meet the average needs of our average family. Ask yourself a question, with what psychophysical or psychological burdens a worker comes to work at work and how much he is mentally prepared to meet the requirements of the technical and technological work process at work if he is actually burdened with the question of whether he will provide sufficient resources for needs, existential needs. It's not about luxury, the existential needs of family members. It is absolutely certain that such a situation significantly reduces his attention and that often not only does it have a significant impact on the quality and quantity of work but also affects his caution regarding respect for the technical and technological process which, as a result, leads to different forms of injury at work. That is why we believe that the time has come for this government to seriously discuss what is the lowest wage and which should be installed on the one hand, and on the other hand to open the question of what is it about paying salaries on two basis. One which is paid by hand, and the other part which is paid as a result of the consequences, is not now now on labour protection but also on the protection arising from the title of former work, i.e. the basis of work today-to-morrow when it comes to health care, when ultimately it is the issue of the pension position of the future pensioner, or the current worker. We believe that all these issues should be quite seriously opened and discussed, and in this context we believe that the time has come to begin to examine the overall socio-economic and legal position of the Republic of Croatia's employment and the relationship between labour and capital in the Republic of Croatia which should be slightly different and should be restored to a higher level of human and labour dignity for workers and employees in the process of work. Not only from the point of view of protection but from the aspect of achieving the process of work, but also from the aspect of rewarding for work and the work invested that they provide that this award should actually satisfy the final request of Article 55(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or that we are definitely telling ourselves that we either respect or do not respect our own Constitution. Not only for constitutional and formal reasons, but for the real needs of our employment and our employees. We believe that some new measures should be taken in this regard as well. And the last thing you'd like to say. Incredibly, one great truth is written in the explanation of the case of professional illnesses annually. However, over 75% of professional illnesses remain unreported. The question is actually who is being helped here. There is no help to the employer or the state or social community, and it is terribly harmful to that same worker who has professionally illed his family. We believe that this fact needs to be updated, delivered to the labour inspection and requested that labour inspection in all matters be initiated in order to actually protect workers who have been professionally ill and to provide them with adequate protection regarding such a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88909	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Ms Vera Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs thank all who participated in the debate and presented their views on the protection of work in relation to the proposal that lies before you today. The government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with social partners who have initiated that in Croatia as it has already been done globally in a good number of countries, it proposes this House to mark the day of protection at work. I think that this debate on the proposal itself has, therefore, initiated a very good approach, and I would say that this debate itself has shown the justification of this proposal. I don't think it's about inflation, inflation of a given day, for a certain occasion, and that even when we take into account the number of specific appropriate days and the marking of different events or important things in social, economic, and even when we consider that day, there will be no sign of devaluation of the situation in a particular area, in particular, protection at work. The Government of the Republic of Croatia holds that the marking of that day, if I may say so, will be welcome... to improve the situation in this area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is, it showed this and your debate or your approaches, views on this area from different paths to say so, has shown that it is a very complex area, an area of human rights, an area of productivity, an area where Croatia must respond to what is the state of its competitiveness. So, what I would particularly like to emphasise, in this complex area, the distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs have no place in pointing fingers to the responsibility of the other. There's room for joint action. It is precisely the fact that the social partner is behind this proposal, the distinguished Mrs. Lalic, I hope that since the employers are also social partners, that their own style about this day being marked will be progress in their ranks. What we must provide on the side of the state is the competence of the institution in this area, the integration of institutions, horizontal communication and cooperation, the association in the creation of common policies in each area. We are aware that in this area we have a good legislative framework, as Mr. Turkish, the honourable representative, pointed out. Let me also be personally in that part, since this is the continuity of my duty to testify that we have done a lot of work in this High House and the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the social partners, that we have built a solid legislative framework. What we must do is strengthen the competence of our institutions to implement this legislative framework. I would like to introduce you to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the area, that is the negotiating area of social policy and employment, particularly wants to focus together with the social partners in the field of protection at work in the action plan that we are preparing and which we are completing in cooperation with the European Commission. Particular attention will be paid to exactly the remaining coordination where it is still needed, but especially to strengthening institutions, linking institutions, harmonising national policies from health care to the economy in order to respond better to the demanding and complex area. In doing so, we are using all opportunities for bilateral cooperation between Member States. I can inform you that our project is in this area that will go towards empowering institutions and building a new institution where the economy, work, health care, so the Ministry of Safety at Work, that our project has been supported by pre-accession funds and that this project is moving and that we will also get technical support, as well as support for the education of experts who will work in this office. So, the government takes advantage of every opportunity, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship also that on this segment and our potential, so our human potential in the state administration is strengthened, but we also need to be aware that some things on the ground, therefore not only employers and shortcomings in their possible system, have to be helped, they must also be helped, especially small employers, since technological requirements are very demanding for new equipment are increasing the protection requirements at work, so technological progress has new challenges, so there must also be more, so institutions must also help employers at this educational and advisory level. Similarly, the State Inspectorate cannot remain in the post of self-punishment, the State Inspectorate must be trained to provide advisory services to all those interested in this. As for the information of workers on their labour protection rights, Madam Sobol, I must say that there is certainly a whole range of subjects that could be objected to in this regard, but let me warn you that Croatia has very high standards when it comes to paid labour representatives and union commissioners who actually put their working time into office as a labour representative and a union commission, and then ask themselves what is their role. So, I'm not in favour of calling out and pointing to the failures of each other, I stand up for it, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is pushing for us to combine efforts in this complex area because without such coordinated efforts it is difficult to be, it is difficult to expect any progress in this area. Therefore, allow me once again, thank you to all who participated in the debate. I think that marking this day will always be an opportunity to open up the issue of our weaknesses, but also about our progress in this area and Mr. Vice President, since I am familiar with the conclusions proposed by the Croatian Party of Retired People, let me say on this occasion that the Government is acceptable to the proposed conclusion that I have agreed with the promoter on behalf of the club, Mr. Hrelja, that a second conclusion with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of establishing annual fees within 60 days, that we agreed that this deadline would be 6 months. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I accept these conclusions with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88911	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to point two. Correction? I didn't see any excuses. Then I'm reopening the debate. Correction, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88912	Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Secretary of State. You know, when it's constantly being mentioned, it's actually time to mark the day of protection, through this day of work protection. It's not the point of this decision in that direction. It should be another additional means for every day to be a day of protection for workers. That's the point of things. I think we should talk about it. Unfortunately, we have brought another formal remedy that we are harmonising with the trends in the international community, and there is much we need to do, you will see when we have a debate on the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, how in our workplaces are protected and at all possible access to people with disabilities at work. And then, then, that's the second question, we'll discuss it at the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88913	Thank you. Correction by Ms. Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88914	It's simply incorrect that you've hardened Madam Secretary of State, that union commissioners don't work during working hours. First of all, it needs to be seen exactly, which I don't think is questionable what their role is and what their rights are based on the Labour Law. And I will only warn you, or give you an example, that it is not exactly what you claimed, when the union commissioner of customs officials, customs officers in the Republic of Croatia and Pula, was a Commissioner, pointed out just non-compliance with customs rights, was then removed or disabled from his work so that man had to establish an Independent Customs Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88915	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88916	Proposal for a decision to declare the National Work Protection Day. I am voting on the motion for a decision. To vote. The result? In agreement with 96 votes for the adopted draft decision. I am voting on the conclusions proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSU. I note that the government does not object to the proposed conclusions, with the replacement of two 60-day deadlines with a 6-month deadline in conclusion. Proposers agree with the proposed amendment. I am voting on this conclusion by the Club of Representatives of the HSU in this amended form. Not conditional, but a 60-day deadline changes with a six-month deadline. It will certainly be done by a new government, only certain or uncertain, in which it will be composed, but it will be the same government. The result? With 86 for and 4 abstentions and 1 against were made proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88917	And we move on to the second point of today's agenda - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 684 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in determining the agenda we have applied an emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mr. Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88918	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There's an important document in front of us. I must tell you right away at the beginning here that the General Assembly of the United Nations, which you probably know, at its 61st session on December 13th last year, adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol that goes with this convention. The Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol was signed at the United Nations headquarters in New York on 30 March 2007, and signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor. On the same day, 30 countries joined the signing of the convention. It is also convenient here to say that this is the first international contract of global reach in the area of human rights in the 21st century that will affect cca. 650 million people and people with disabilities around the world. In this regard, during the drafting of the Convention and the Faculty Protocol, the Republic of Croatia expressed its support for adopting those with the United Nations, representing the view that there is a need for promotion and protection of human rights for all persons with disabilities, including those who need greater support. For the Republic of Croatia, the Convention and the Faculty Protocol are of particular interest as a social state and... creating further conditions for the enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Convention and the Faculty Protocol are additional mechanisms for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms as well as a new step towards improving international humanitarian rights that will significantly contribute to improving the situation of persons with disabilities and promote their participation in civil, political, economic, social and cultural areas of life. For the Republic of Croatia, the party of all key international instruments adopted so far in the field of human rights and international humanitarian rights is a continuity on the international agenda but remains a commitment to the implementation of modern standards in national legislation. The fundamental principles on which the Convention and the Faculty Protocol are based are also fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which protects human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Republic of Croatia has so far built a system of rights for disabled persons who are largely in line with the rights of persons with disabilities set out in this said Convention. Special progress has been seen in recognising the rights of disabled persons since the Republic of Croatia began to comply with the rules of European standards. The Republic of Croatia promotes active policy towards people with disabilities and in particular promotes their integration as equal citizens in society. The objective of this Law to confirm the Convention and the Faculty Protocol as an international contract to which the Republic of Croatia undertakes to ensure full implementation of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities without discrimination on the basis of disability, which implies the adoption of appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures to gradually implement measures recognised by the Convention and the Faculty Protocol, taking all measures to ensure that public institutions and the general public are particularly the whole public, means complete authorities act in accordance with the Convention and the Faculty Protocol. This is especially important to emphasize. The Conventions and the Faculty Protocols as well as their provisions within the meaning of Article 140 shall be confirmed by this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And here I have written down, so I could tell you which area they're in, but I don't think it makes any sense right now, so I need to cut this short. And I would say that it means that, by means of a university flow, it regulates the recognition of the responsibility of the board, which is also very important for the rights of persons with disabilities, for receiving and considering the representations of individuals, or on behalf of individuals or groups of individuals who are legally competent to sign a university protocol and who claim to be victims of infringements, which claim to be victims of violations of the Convention by the State of the Signatory State. By Article 45(1) of the Convention, a certain Convention shall enter into force 30 days after the storage of 20 instruments of ratification or accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Article 13(1) of the Faculty Protocol provides that the Protocol shall enter into force on the date of entry into force of the Convention and 30 days after the entry into force of 10 instruments of ratification or accession. And now we're going to go to the evaluation of the funds needed to enforce this law. For the implementation of this Act on the validation of the Convention and the Faculty Protocol, and for the implementation of the Convention, additional financial resources must be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 and beyond. So, the ninth and tenth. In order to implement the provisions of the Faculty Protocol, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the national budget. A total of 62 million 417 thousand and 728 kuna should be provided for the implementation of the Convention in 2008, 2009 and 2010. For the implementation of the Convention of the Department of Science, Education and Sports it is necessary to provide 47 million annually for the implementation of the Convention of the Part-Corruption of the Croatian Institute of Public Health in order to build up a system of statistics on data collection for disabled persons, 417 thousand 728 kuna should be collected annually. For the implementation of the Convention of the Department of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity it is necessary to provide 15 million kuna annually for the purpose of implementing a personal assistant programme for persons with the most difficult type and degree of disability. In order to implement the Convention of the Department of Health and Social Care in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of a report on the second programme loan for adjustment between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is envisaged, among other things, to ensure an increase of regular resources compared to 2007 for social contributions relating to the rights of persons with disabilities of 175 million 990 thousand and 512 kuna, and the amount of funds made is not directly provided in the state budget, since the implementation of the Convention is subject to the provision of those appropriations. The basis for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention and of the Faculty Protocol under the haste procedure is set out in Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which both formally express the willingness of the state to be bound by an already signed international contract, as the fact that amendments and additions to the text of the international treaty cannot be made at this stage of the procedure, I suggest that this law be discussed and adopted in a hasty procedure uniting first and second readings. For the same reasons specified for the adoption of the Law attesting the Convention of the Faculty Protocol following an emergency procedure, it is also proposed that the law enter into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal". Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88919	Thank you very much. The Assembly has already accepted an emergency procedure. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88920	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 74th session of the Committee held on 23 May 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 9 May 2007. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The members of the committee in the debate expressed their full support for the adoption of this law and for the full implementation of all human rights and fundamental persons with disabilities. As a social state, the Republic of Croatia promotes the protection of human rights of all persons with disabilities, especially those who need greater and lasting support. As the Republic of Croatia has so far adopted all key international instruments relating to human rights and international humanitarian right to confirm both these conventions and protocols show a clear intention to implement proposed standards through national legislation. After a brief discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88921	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on an official return visit to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the delegation of the German Bundestag is headed by his Excellency Norbert Lammert to the President of Bundestag, and we warmly welcome them. - Give it up! - Do the other committees, on behalf of these other two committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the SDP club and Ms. Vesna Škulic. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After nearly five years of negotiations, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the text of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities offered for signing at its 61st session on 13 December 2006. Former UN Secretary Kofi Annan welcomed the agreement as a historic achievement with over 650 million people with disabilities worldwide, which is also the first human rights document in the 21st century. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will take effect a month after twenty countries sign and ratify this document. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a comprehensive document that covers all areas of life and adequately maintains the link and interdependence of all rights of civil, political, social, economic and cultural. This Convention does not create new rights but is reaffirmed and provides for the already existing rights of this population, which are provided for other human rights conventions. Furthermore, these documents recognise the need for persons with disabilities to be recognised as full members who, on the basis of equality, contribute to the development of society together with other persons. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is necessary because of the fact that people with disabilities represent one of the most marginalised groups and often human rights of compensation and routinely unrecognizable or unimplementable. Although the Convention does not create new but only confirms existing rights, this document specifically prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in all areas of life including civil rights, access to justice, education, health services and others. I have already pointed out that this is the UN's largest millennium document, otherwise for many things specific. In addition to the first UN document dealing exclusively with the protection and promotion of the rights of disabled persons, it is specific that a large number of NGOs participated in the drafting of the Convention other than the representatives of the Member States. At the last session, about 800 members of NGOs. In this way, a message was sent to the UN member states and to the world in which and at which all levels must respect the principle of us, always with us. This does not mean that people with disabilities should be someone's cover. They themselves must be actively involved in creating a policy towards themselves. It is also before us and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with the Final Proposal for the Law. As the SDP Club, we strongly advocate the civil, political, social and economic and cultural rights of persons with disabilities and through our policy towards persons with disabilities that we have expressed through the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2005 on our proposal. I must stress that unfortunately, we did not come across a great understanding of the Government which felt that the Declaration was unnecessary and that negotiations with the parliamentary majority were necessary for the government to change its opinion and that the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted and thus once again we warn about the state of human rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. So I have already stressed that, with strong advocate and support for the law that protects the area of persons with disabilities, the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. However, we believe that the proposed text of the law, and also the translation of the Convention, does not comply with the obligations signed by Croatia on 30 March 2007 and which do not correspond to the original text. The SDP Club believes that the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure is unnecessary and undesirable because it can bring more damage than benefits because of its speed. The text of the law which has been proposed does not show that social impacts of the envisaged changes must be demonstrated anywhere. And what has been said is very limited and the question arises whether the law considers that the number of persons living in institutions will have to be reduced more intensively. That some structures, social care centres, family centres, specialised associations, private organisations and so on will have to provide various types of services in communities and that, ideally, the Ministry should have some sort of action plan and some sort of time frame. The law provides for costs only in the field of education, the addition of the statistical system, the cost of introducing a personal assistant institute for people with the most severe disability, and it is completely unclear to which social contributions relate to the means of work, for which the Ministry of Health and Social Care is responsible. In addition to the financial effects, the Rules of Procedure on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of 10 February 2005 should show an assessment of the social impact. From this proposal for a bill, social impact assessment is not sufficiently accurate and for these reasons we propose to refer the law to the promoter. We set out some areas of the Convention in which some changes and modifications will be needed. This Regulation shall enter Right to information in a form suitable for persons with a specific type of disability. The De facto Convention guides signatories countries to use Braill's letter and sign language as well as to other public institutions. This makes it a prerequisite for these means of communication to be granted minority language status. This Regulation shall enter The right to an assisted decision is different from the mechanisms for the takeover of business ability. The Convention opens up a space for the institute of assisted decision-making, which means that people with difficulties are not deprived of their business ability, but that at any time they can use professional counselling services to help them make a decision that is in its best interest. The harmonisation of the Family Law should therefore be considered. The right to an independent life involves us in the community, that is, in Article 19. In the text of the Convention, institutions are not mentioned at all. Family is of great importance to every person, but for people with disabilities, it has an even stronger role to play. The preamble of the Convention confirms that the family is a natural and fundamental unit of society and that persons with disabilities and members of their families should receive the necessary support so that families can contribute to the full and equal exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. Networks of support to families through transport, private assistant institute, occasional forms of care for children and adult family members, home assistance and access to information are still developing and need to be further encouraged, quality standards developed and systematically funded. This Regulation shall enter The Convention has taken over the obligation to protect persons with disabilities in matters of marriage, social relations and family. They have also committed themselves to ensuring equal rights to children with disabilities by respecting family life and by making sure that children with disabilities are not separated from their families against their will unless it is in the best interests of the child. Unless a direct family is unable to care for a disabled child. Governments agree to take every step to provide care within the wider family or within the community in which the family lives. It is therefore clear that the state needs to take more concrete steps towards the transformation of institutions. This Regulation shall enter When it comes to education, the aim is to fully participate in the Convention not to mention special classes, class departments or so on. Special schools. On the contrary, the Convention advocates full integration into the educational system under the same conditions as all other students in communities in which pupils live, where appropriate, effective, individualised support measures. The Convention also states that rehabilitation services both in health and social services must be provided as close as possible to the place of residence of persons with disabilities including rural areas. This Regulation shall enter Right to work and employment. In this part of the Convention, it does not mention protection workshops at all, but talks about the right to employment under equal conditions. However, it stresses that access to the workplace is not only about removing architectural barriers but also about introducing new technologies to adapt labour resources. Worktime adjustments and the introduction of a working assistant. We also feel that because of a poor translation or a small translator in Article 12, legal capacity is stated instead of business ability. The title of the article is: Equality before the law. States Parties reaffirm that persons with disabilities have the right to worry everywhere, be recognised as equal before the law everywhere. Article 2 The State Party will accept that persons with disabilities have legal capacity, therefore, on the same basis as other persons in all aspects of life. Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to stop reading here for a while, so I'd like to ask you. Is it possible that a failure occurred in translation because this translation of the Convention after 13.12.2007, 2006, was written or translated: the states of the signatories will accept that persons with disabilities have the right to full business capacity, which in Croatian law gives a much higher level of rights. So, a business ability that can't be taken away. Also, since some countries do not have a clear view of legal capacity in their language. Therefore, the Member States have been recommended to put in that terminology, which will ensure the highest level of law, so I would ask you after this presentation to explain to me whether it is a loss or simply Croatia will sign, or ratify the Convention, and then further down to a lower level will lower the level of rights of persons with disabilities especially when it comes to people with intellectual difficulties. I'd move on now. Otherwise, in Croatian law there are three types of abilities, so I will try to explain to you and my colleagues so that we can see if it is really necessary to go through an emergency procedure or if we might stop a little bit in the interest of 450 000 inhabitants of this country. In Croatian law, there are three kinds of abilities. The legal capacity that a natural person acquires by birth. So, that we got in the materials for this session, and the legal person enlisted in the register, which means being able to be the bearer of rights. The legal capacity of a natural person cannot be restricted by laws. Business ability, therefore, is the greatest possible right for us, which is thus acquired by a business capacity which a natural person acquires with age, completed 18 years of life, and implies the ability to be the bearer of rights and obligations, to take legal action on his behalf and for his own benefit. The business ability of a natural person can be restricted by law, so the Family Law is deprived of business abilities, etc. Just a little bit, I got a little confused here. A working capacity which a natural person acquires in the rule of adulthood, which implies the ability to carry out certain tasks and work tasks relating to the exercise of labour rights. For people with disabilities, the most important thing is the achievement of their business ability, since individual groups of people with disabilities are deprived of their business skills, resulting in many guaranteed human rights. In view of the fact that the UN meeting held in August 2006, the last day of the ad hoc meeting of the Convention, there were doubts about this article, an agreement was reached which would not be at the expense of persons with disabilities. In Chinese, Arabic, and Spanish, there is no expression for business ability, i.e. is used in a different sense. Member States are proposed to use that legal terminology which gives the highest level of law in translation. In this case, that would by definition be our business ability. So, I hope this is just a little bit of a waste in conduct because otherwise, the government would have to put a reserve on this article, and we know that these processes are long-term and how much harm and injustice it would be to people with disabilities, especially those with intellectual difficulties. And in the end, he wouldn't be in the spirit of the convention itself. And now we're on the move. It's not enough just to sign and ratify. It is necessary to act here at all levels and to involve people with disabilities in decision-making processes. And finally, a statement by the representatives of the Zimbabwe delegation. This convention should not represent a minefield of words and expressions that will explode in our faces. So it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88923	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88924	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Croatian People's Party club supports that Croatia ratifys this convention, although following these comments by the SDP club on the translation text, i.e. the Croatian version annexed to this law, there is a real doubt whether it would really be necessary, smart and good to review and correct one more time. Because at the time or if there is a wrong or bad translation in the application of the convention, we may have problems later. However, I was surprised by the rate of ratification of this convention because you have to admit that it is unusual in this House to ratify the conventions that were passed a month, two days ago, and some after 3, 4 and 5 years we're just putting on the agenda and I thought it had something to do with a law that we have under the sixth point of the agenda, which changes the Social Care Act. But I was disappointed. This proposal changes the social care law does not follow this convention in the domain of the rights of disabled people, so I do not understand why Mr. Secretary of State Government insists on the urgency of the procedure. The more obvious the translation, the more it doesn't work out. Secondly, I would like to point out that we must neither deceive ourselves nor try to fool ourselves, and in particular we must not do so towards persons with disabilities in Croatia that the ratification of this Convention will cause problems, their problems to be removed or that there will be no more significant shifts in legislation, implementation and supervision of law enforcement only because we will ratify this Convention. Did we need or should we, for example, have, after 8 years of demanding different associations and people with disabilities, finally received from the Government of the Proposal for a Law on Disabilities, which, for example, the Alliance of the Blind has been trying to adopt for 8 years. Whether we need this convention to make the Government suggest that the rights of disabled people, disabled persons depend on the degree and type of disability rather than on its origin. Whether by ratification of this Convention, the Government will, by emergency procedure, propose before the elections, laws to which disabled persons will be cared and protected according to the degree and type of disability they really have or will leave in force by a hundred laws that have divided and wrongs among the disabled. Whether this convention will rush Mr. Secretary of State to you, your portfolio and your ministry to propose the introduction of a disabled minimum to what the Convention of International Labour Organisations which Croatia still does not have. So the convention that Croatia took over back in the '90s 15 years ago so we don't. What concerns me further is the regulations that we have brought online or which we should have but we do not have related is, for example, Article 5. The Convention prescribed by the States, the obligation of the State Parties to accept that all persons are equal to the law and have equal rights without discrimination on equal protection and equal benefit under the law. What is the law that speaks of the rights of disabled persons respects the principle of equal rights when the rights of disabled persons are classified by the origin of disability, not by the kind of disability. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Convention defines the meaning of certain concepts and determines discrimination on the basis of disability means any distinction, exclusion or limitation on the basis of disability which has the purpose or effect of preventing or repealing the recognition of the use of all human rights, fundamental freedoms on political, economic, social, cultural, social and any other area on equality with other persons. Will ratification of this Convention take place on a precedent so that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will finally act on a request for the assessment of the constitutionality submitted to it for the first time in 1999? And the second time in 2001? So the third time in the end of last year when the Constitutional Court asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the '98 pension reform. Is that what you're talking about? Is that what you're talking about? 7.8 years The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia does not comply with several requirements for the assessment of constitutionality given on behalf of about 30,000 disabled workers. Either the disabled are not disabled under this Convention or by our laws? Or is this where we conduct different approaches to different categories of people with disabilities? And you can imagine we guarantee there will be no discrimination against the disabled. And for eight years, the Constitutional Court has been silent on all submissions and constitutional requirements. And we guarantee them equality before the law, and they ask the Constitutional Court to assess whether their translation from temporary care into a permanent disability pension with half-pulse material rights was constitutional or not. And we want to convince people that the ratification of the Convention will make it much easier for people with disabilities. Furthermore, there is also a provision in Article 24(3) to facilitate the learning of Braille's letter, alternative letters, alternative means of means and forms of communication. Will the Croatian Parliament finally get an answer to the question whether textbooks for primary and secondary schools in Braill's letter have entered the standard, a textbook standard that students in regular schools receive free of charge? The 10th time that question is raised in Parliament and no one wants to answer it. The last time is said to be, it will be, you don't know when. And I'm done with the next one. Article 33 of the States and parties shall maintain, strengthen, appoint or establish a framework for action within the relevant State Party, including one or more independent mechanisms, in order to be appropriate to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention. So we have an obligation to establish a permanent body of implementation of the Convention. What does that mean for disabled people in Croatia? Nothing. When a state body or a para-state body is established, these people are guaranteed nothing. And I'll prove it to you. The Croatian Parliament adopted its conclusion on 19 November 2004 obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a full analysis of the material situation of disabled workers as soon as possible and to submit for discussion to the Croatian Parliament. This conclusion was not adopted on the basis of the opposition proposal, this is the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. Since 24 November 2004, has the Croatian Government provided Parliament with an analysis of the material situation of disabled workers? Does anyone remember that analysis, did you have a chance to see it and get it? Why did we get that analysis, that conclusion? Well, it's precisely because all the arguments and facts pointed out that something happened to the disabled when we forced them into law in '98. with temporary care transferred to a permanent disability pension and still made the difference between those who work and do not work in material care. I addressed the Prime Minister on January 24, 2006. And I asked Prime Minister Sanader when the government would deliver that analysis to the Parliament. The prime minister replied that the working group, which has been amended in the meantime, continues to work on the analysis. So that was in January 2006. It's the end of May 2007. I have to admit some weird working group that's still working so it's constantly changing in its composition or doesn't know what it's supposed to do, or she's being ordered not to do anything. In this response, as regards the Employment and Self Employment Fund, the prime minister wrote on January 24, 2006: "A full analysis of new incentive measures for employment and self-employment of persons with disabilities through the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund will be possible only after full implementation of the laws and decisions.". Well, it's been two years. There's no analysis and no report. Who should be addressed by Mr. Secretary of State in your Government, in the Croatian Government, to what we should take as parliamentary deputies, who is the one on the move that will first take the decision of the Parliament and come with the analysis to see what the material position of disabled workers is and who it is in this country, what should happen that the Constitutional Court after 8 years would be honored, and I remind you that these are the same judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, who recently did nothing to interpret that we must make the laws of women work 5 years longer, in the same judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, who, without any submission and requests, have put aside the provisions of the Law on non-payment of an allowance on the work experience of 0.5% per year, and thus increased their salary by 20 percent. They didn't need submissions or demands or rushes, they didn't need anything, and they made that decision within a month. Here, when it comes to interest, and most often about the existence of 30 thousand citizens of this country who are disabled workers, who received 1,000 kunas on care forced into disability pensions with 680 to 720 kuna pensions, no one wants to bring justice. Probably to prevent and prevent them from addressing the European Court of Justice and seeking justice there. This is a successful brake as the Constitutional Court prevents the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from addressing the European Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88925	Please, nice. Dear colleague Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88926	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. It is understandable that this Convention should be ratified. Far from this country having no high standards at least when it comes to people with disabilities from the Homeland War, the rest are not exactly in that position. I thought I'd find a provision in this Convention that would make all the disabled equal, but unfortunately, there's no such thing as the Convention. So it will be that elsewhere in the world there seems to be a distinction between individual groups of people with disabilities. Someone calculated that this Convention will need to allocate 62 million kuna 417 thousand in 2008, 2009, 2010, but further in its explanation, it is said that in the section of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports it is necessary to provide 47 million kuna, the Croatian Institute of Public Health 417 thousand kuna, the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity 15 million kuna, and for the implementation of the Convention of the Department of Health and Social Care in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of the report on the second programme loan for adjustment between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of a further 175 million kuna, so that the next year, according to this Convention, should be additionally provided in the budget of 238 million 417 thousand and 240 kuna. These are not negligible funds, of course the IDS supports it. In fact, I also think that World War II disableds should be equalized with those of the Homeland War. For me in this Convention are the key to the next institute. First of all, Article 3 is a general principle of respect for innate dignity, personal autonomy, non-discrimination of these persons, full and effective participation and inclusion of them in society, equality between men, women. Then Article 9 which speaks of accessibility, which refers to buildings, roads, transport, other indoors, open spaces. Then, the State Party will also take appropriate measures to develop, encourage, monitor the implementation of minimum standards, guidelines for accessibility of space and services, etc. Article 16 which speaks of freedom from exploitation, violence and abuse. Article 19 is then an independent life and involvement in a community where it is said that the State Party of this Convention recognises the same right for all persons with disabilities to live in a community with the right of choice as for other persons, etc. And I come here to article 27, which is really crucial, and it's about work, employment. Therefore, it is said that discrimination is prohibited on the basis of disability, under (b) protection of persons with disabilities on an equal footing with others in terms of fair and favourable working conditions including equal opportunities, equal pay for working the same value, then enabling effective access of persons with disabilities to general technical programmes. Then, under d) promoting employment opportunities and career advancement of people with disabilities in the labour market, under f) promoting the possibility of self-employment of entrepreneurship, hiring people with disabilities in the public sector and not listing everything else. So Article 27 is kind of the essence of this Convention. Now how in this country, in a country with 300 thousand unemployed, can ensure that even disabled people work, make a living, feel useful, not someone's concern, don't feel sorry for them, or because of their disability that they're not given a chance. So how do you achieve that in this country that has 300 thousand unemployed? How to achieve this in a country where over 90% of the Croatian economy is currently private, where there is no more sentiment for anyone, especially where there is no mercy on this market, where no one saves anyone, where everyone thinks exclusively about themselves, and the question whether and whether those who are responsible for it should care for it. There are 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities in this country. I repeat, nearly 430 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia are in some way disabled. Of these men 245 thousand 897, woman 183 thousand 524. Since birth there are 13,000 238 people with disabilities. Male 10,000 556, female 2 thousand 682. 45,000 763 people with disabilities came out of the war. Of these men, 42 thousand 913, woman 2 thousand 850. We have 109 thousand 104 disabled workers in the Republic of Croatia, out of which men 71 thousand 310, women 37 thousand 794. Sick people with disabilities, so those who have acquired disability through the disease have 197,000 410. A man of 84 thousand, a woman of 113 thousand. Since the accident in this country, we have 18 thousand 411 people with disabilities. A man of 12 grand, a woman of 6 grand 200 and something. There's 20 grand left, 430 grand in total. There's another 13,000 238 people with disabilities from NOB. I told them the Homeland War 45 thousand 763 and they should be evened out. Without that, I don't know this convention, a dead letter on paper. For these 430 thousand persons with disabilities or persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, substantial funds are provided. How much, unfortunately I don't know, because this should be drawn cumulatively according to the items of all Croatian ministries but it can be speculated that nearly 10% of the Croatian budget of some 106, 107 billion kuna goes for the needs of disabled people. Well, of course. Money must not be an obstacle when it comes to disabled people. But what's the obstacle, what really matters is how to get these people a job? These people, at least some of them or one large number can work, maybe not all jobs, most of them yes. The state should certainly especially stimulate the employment of disabled people. He cannot clearly impose anything on anyone except those public services, such as We have laws decided that priority in employment under the same conditions, etc., have defenders. So maybe even disabled people should be raised to that level. But from day to day, in this country we have less and less state-owned companies or those owned by local self-government, more and more companies are owned by private individuals. Now, as I subscribe, this employment of disabled persons to the interests of entrepreneurs, I don't know the unemployed, states, local communities, etc.? What measures can this problem be addressed or what measures should this problem be addressed? What stimuli? Croatia knows certain incentives for disabled people but, employment of disabled people, we see it all in its midst going hard, often almost impossible. Repeat. This convention, it's definitely a good thing. With the implementation of the same basket, despite the fact that this 62 million kuna data was indicated here in 2008 because of this World Bank loan of 238 million kuna. Something extra will mean, the money will be allocated to disabled people. And now, probably their status, I doubt it'll be better, but let's say that the higher and the higher of that money can be, at least the extra attention of those people. But once again, it's a job, and unfortunately it won't be. There are some companies in the Republic of Croatia that again work exclusively for the state, meaning beyond these public competitions, meaning some preferences, and that should also be stimulated, because in fact we see social policy being conducted. I will not mention any of them now, but such companies, radios where 30, 40, 50 disabled Croatians know from Pula further. That's what it The stronger the economy of a country, the more powerful it is in my court and the disabled, or the better the position of the disabled. Only this economic power of the community does not always monitor this social or social awareness among individuals, in the local community, in the country that these people in some way need more attention than perhaps other citizens. And if not, not at least smaller, because they are also in that labour market in an incomparably worse position than those in their situation. The convention, precisely because of these funds, is still 238 million kuna shouldn't remain a dead letter on paper. But I guess, in fact, I doubt that our disabled will be much better with those funds, because if you spend 10% of the budget, that's 10 billion, that would be only 2% more, well, and that 2% no longer need to be ignored. It'll be better for me to say, if we think something bad can happen to us, to our families, and let's say through such a position of reflection we try to get close to these people. It is clear, I am for this convention, to ensure that 238 million kunas, that an entrepreneur is stimulated for the employment of disabled people. Unfortunately, though, it will not guarantee a revolution when it comes to disabled people. They, once again, don't need pity, they need a job. Now how do you secure that job? Small craftsmen are hardly able to create such jobs, and on the other hand we will discuss later, they employ about 500,000 people. But you've been pressured by the kid from all over the place. I highly doubt they'll hire them because they're in the way of their profits, and the state is doing as clearly as it can. What's also interesting, we've got, many clubs suggesting a draft law on a blinding allowance. In Croatia, we have 75 people who have come out of the Homeland War like, who receive an allowance for that blindness. For them is 286 thousand kuna, per person 3 thousand 824 kuna. Civil war victims were 181. They get the amount of extra per person per month 3 thousand 320 kuna. The invalids like them, they have 3,000 193. They get an extra of 896 kuna a month. Civil people with disabilities receive only 400 kuna. And those who have a reduced amount of only 280 kuna or a month for those 5 thousand 806 people with disabilities of all categories, the state stands out 4 million 639 thousand. They suggest a normal person to be more or less equal to you, and that would certainly be one significant social moment that would talk among other things about a fairer society. Today or this year, for those 5 thousand 806 blind people, 55 million and 677 thousand kuna will be allocated. They suggest that 98 thousand 888 thousand kuna be singled out, and if in that way it really came out to meet these people, I think it would be right for them to have a huge social injustice because it's not their fault that someone has been blind since birth and it can't be a significant difference between a civilian victim of labour and a disabled homeland war. It is not simply correct and it should in some way change and correct. And as far as the convention itself is concerned, it's clearly an international act, and as such, I think we'll accept it unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88927	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. A respected colleague, Adlesic, is coming up on behalf of the HSLS Representatives' Club. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88928	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this law is to confirm the Convention and the Faculty Protocol as an international contract that the Republic of Croatia assumes and there is also an obligation to ensure the achievement of all human rights and freedom of persons with disabilities without discrimination on this basis. However, if we look at the compliance of our laws so far, the implementing acts that threaten them, then the question really arises whether it is a document that is enforceable or not. I think we should be honest here. We usually represent a relationship with people with special needs so that we insist on telling them the only truth when it is not popular and when it does not encourage but is far more difficult and far more harmful than it is in laws that are enforceable and not. Because the adoption of this Convention introduces a series of obligations for the Signatory State, it addresses a number of issues for persons with disabilities from education, health care, training and rehabilitation, work, employment, adequate living standards, social protection, participation in cultural life, recreation, sport, equality before the law. And now, not to count, look how much it's really going on. Here, let me just draw a little attention to the movement. For example, participation in cultural life, recreation and sports. Well, we'll see that at local levels or people with minor difficulties, they actually don't have those opportunities for smaller cities. And now to promise that we will do it really needs to be completely honest and to say what are the deadlines, which are the means. Without this, it is only about declarations because most of these costs, sooner or later, fall on local budgets, on urban, municipal and county areas, because our disabled are still inaccessible functions and jobs being done, for example, in Bjelovar in the Centre for Social Care. Until recently it was also in the police, but now it's been resolved and the possibility of going to theatre or cinema, so what you should guarantee this convention is believe for many cities even in projects cities without barriers completely unreal. And you need to see which is the deadline, which are the means and then tell the truth. I would like to remind you that this is a 9.6% data from a total population of 183,000 524 women. So we can't be dishonest and cheat on 10% of the population with promises we can't keep. Here's the area of health care. The fact is that our health care and health care system in Croatia was established on principle, on a public principle all equally on equal terms and for all insured persons of the institution. However, see how that is, from waiting lists to complaints that you will only be able to hear from citizens when it comes to the right to medicines. So you'll see there's already a serious problem. However, when it comes to persons with disabilities in practice, it is indeed evident that this principle cannot be fully implemented, how people with disabilities will achieve the same level of independence and training as those who do not have these problems. They are in specific situations because it is clear that they are in special circumstances necessary to ensure a higher level of health care. The most common problem facing people with disabilities is a very complicated, inexplicable process of exercising the right, for example, to orthopedic and other aids. See only how long they need to wear a brace or how long they need to wait on the cart and you will see that the minimum twice is that longer the time limit than the one that is real. It can't be expected that all people can cover it or something that can look very cheap but the fact, for example, women operated on breast cancer can get two bras a year. It may seem like a small thing, but we can't promise what can't be realized. It is also necessary to simplify the procedure for the exercise of rights in the healthcare system. Persons with disabilities must be provided with assistance, rights and services that will really enable a smooth life in the community and training of persons for work is very important how to involve persons with disabilities in active life, to exercise their right to work and employment, but with the fact that they are really starting from the ground up, means from a system of education, especially a programme of secondary education that seeks to be harmonised but is still not in line with the needs of the labour market. A detailed analysis should be made, so to determine what profiles of the profession the market is looking for and not that people with disabilities who are educated are far more difficult because of the circumstances in which they live and then remain unemployed. There is information that some disabled people have been waiting at the Employment Office for over ten years. As for increased employment opportunities, here are currently 5 thousand and 820 people waiting for the first job. The issue is of course socialization as well as the education of teachers for working with children who have developmental difficulties and the number of defectologists. Check the data on how many defectors there are in primary and secondary schools, and then we'll see how much these documents are available. You should also see what with people with disabilities who can't even get the lowest level of expertise. Therefore, changes in acts, changes in the entire package of laws, as well as stricter sanctions for non-compliance with obligations relating to this particularly sensitive category are necessary. I think you should think about people who have become disabled by mines. There are initiatives that would be good for the Parliament to consider treating them as people with disabilities in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88929	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Chikesh. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88930	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, with the Final Proposal for the Law of the Croatian Democratic Community club supports and accepts the adoption of those by an urgent procedure. They were already confirmed in New York on 13 December 2006, and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity signed the same March 30th of this year on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The convention takes effect when it is signed by at least 20 countries. Those conditions have already been met. So the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Follow-up Faculty Protocol is already in force. A number of international and regional documents of the United Nations and of the European Union, such as the Charter, Declarations, Conventions, Pacts and other types of international legal acts, shall oblige the States of the signatories to act in a certain manner and to fulfil their commitments, in particular as regards human rights and freedoms, and to strengthen them. General efforts brought forward by these acts, and thus this Convention is aimed at removing the negative consequences of social differences, while accepting differences between people. Therefore, none of the differences justify any duplication of people in terms of age, with respect to sex, race, religion, origin, belief or disability, and precisely to persons with disabilities is dedicated to this Convention and following a cultural protocol. Every man has the same natural right, the right to dignity. The World Health Organization estimates show that about 10% of the population is affected by some health damage that in one way or another restricts or alters their ability in different areas of life. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the 2001 census, of the total resident 429 thousand 421 were persons with disabilities, whether they are dealing with persons with physical disability, with chronic illness, hearing impairment or visual impairment with mental retardation, autism or multiple damages. And once again, the Republic of Croatia has confirmed itself by signing this Convention and the Faculty Protocol as a social state by creating social conditions for the consumption of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities. Of course this is all guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has so far built a system of rights for persons with disabilities, so we can conclude that most of the content of this Convention has already been implemented in our legislation. And for that minority part, all state bodies undertake to comply with their regulations and activities with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Of course, more attention should be paid to the application, implementation in the practice of all the laws and these binding conventions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also gave a projection of the financial resources needed to implement this Convention for 2008, 2009 and 2010, which was more said by Mr Secretary. This funding should be provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, then by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and the Ministry of Health and Social Care has already provided the costs of implementing this Convention through another programme loan between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There is, of course, a university protocol along with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is specified by the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its effect. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with the Following Protocol and believes that its application will further improve the position and life of those who are just intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88931	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... familiar with the technology of signing and ratifying the Convention. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] So on the first day, since I also worked at the Convention and participated in signing, or was a member of the delegation when the Convention was signed, that first day was signed somewhere around 70 countries. And for the ratification of the Convention in order for it to enter into force, it is necessary to ratify, ratify 20 countries. So, ratification, not you said signatures, ratification of 20 countries to make it effective. But so far, only one country has ratified the Convention. And that is why I don't think that we should have an emergency procedure, since even the Member States of the European Union have not yet looked at their legislation and are not in a hurry to ratify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88933	Thank you for the clarification, but it's not about the correction, it's about the clarification, from your opinion. That's why I'm asking you not to abuse the institute to correct the incorrect allegations. We're continuing the debate. It is on behalf of the PGS, SBHS and the Inter-Mourian Democratic Party, a respected counterpart, Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88934	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So let me refer on behalf of the regional parties to this Convention. Our club will therefore support this Convention, but with the warning that there are also difficulties in achieving the rights and privileges of disabled people. They appear because there is therefore a number and fragmentation of regulations under various laws, and some mention that this issue is treated by as many as 271 laws in the Republic of Croatia, which are also followed by a number of rules giving rights to people with disabilities. And in many cases these rights are not known to the disabled. It is also important to know that many of these rights depend on many details, especially on the legal status of a person with disabilities, on the degree of disability, on the type of disability, on the property or incomes, on the place where he lives, and on whether he is a disabled or disabled. So we're talking about architectural barriers, so the life of disabled people, and now we hear that there are a lot of bureaucratic barriers in which there are often unsurpassed obstacles to some disabled people's rights. So here today we also have one of these acts, we have a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So it's one of the key acts, the key laws we're passing in this House. I can only remind you that a few weeks ago we had on the agenda of the Assembly of the Proposed Law on the Ombudsman for Disabilities, that today we were also discussing an important and equally important topic which is also intended to sensitise the public in a certain part of this pragmatism, i.e. Today we discussed a proposal for a decision to declare the National Work Protection Day,... We also brought to the Croatian Assembly in 2005 the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that we also brought to this Assembly several years ago a national programme to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, a national strategy of a single policy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yet, we have not solved one of the key problems that plagues our disabled. At least part of our disabled, which is their requirement to determine disability according to the degree of disability, not the origin of disability. So, I think, of course, certain laws will change that as soon as possible. As regards attitude towards people with disabilities, the attitude of our club is that people with disabilities should be considered to be equal opportunities to the extent that they need to be considered to be persons in society, and the observation of people with disabilities as care-only facilities is wrong, because the concentration only on the disability of a particular person often increases the same disability without reason. It is also our view that the wrong action of a society that concentrates only on giving pensions and helping with disability is because in this way many people are disfellowshipped prematurely, instead of finding a chance at rehabilitation and training for work. Help people with disabilities to find their place in the working environment must be implemented in a stimulating environment, both in a policy related to labour market policy, pension and education systems, and in a social environment where public awareness must be developed about providing equal opportunities for people with disabilities. It is our opinion, therefore, that this Convention is going in this direction, although we are therefore aware that there will be great difficulties in its implementation. There we could single out or want to isolate some of the basic points that we think are important and should be promoted as much as possible in our system, i.e. bring to the level for which this convention itself foresees. We primarily think about education and employment. According to this Convention, this Convention provides that persons with disabilities are not excluded from the general education system based on their disability and that children with developmental difficulties are not excluded from free and mandatory primary or secondary education based on developmental difficulties. According to the report, one report, i.e. Report created and implemented by the Institute of Open Society in cooperation with the Croatian Association for the Promotion of Inclusion, i.e. Involving the situation is completely different. Croatian legislation covering the rights of people with intellectual difficulties, i.e. a person whose ability to learn significantly below the average is still out of line with international standards. This result is therefore derived from this report. Children with moderate, moderate and greater intellectual difficulties are referred to school institutions with special programmes, i.e. special schools or social care institutions. In practice, the inclusion of children with mild intellectual disabilities is quite limited, in many schools there is a lack of adequate levels of support for this inclusion. So there's a lot of difference for that from the school programs themselves, to the very equipment of the school as to the personnel and the material conditions. Therefore, in our laws we should fence and also allocate additional resources to help ensure this right, the States should therefore take appropriate measures to hire teachers, so there have already been words here that just professional teachers in our primary schools are too little. Thus, even if teachers and people with disabilities who know sign language and Braill's letter are expected to be involved, I do not know for now any such case and should also train experts and persons working at all educational levels. Such training must include awareness of disability and the use of appropriate means, means and forms of communication. So, as far as education is concerned, there is a big job waiting for us to meet the basic conditions of meeting this Convention. There is also a similar case in the system of work of these employment. This same Convention speaks of a ban on discrimination on the basis of disability in relation to all issues related to all forms of employment, including conditions of finding candidates, employment and employment, duration of employment, career advancement in the service and safe working conditions that do not harm health etc., etc. So according to this same research, According to Mrs. Borka Teodorović, presidents of the Association for the Promotion of Inclusion, therefore, employers refuse to hire people with intellectual difficulties because they are mostly concerned about increasing costs and lower labour performance. The Croatian government is weakly involved in a campaign that would be more systematic in raising employers' awareness of the potential of people with intellectual difficulties. In order to help find a job for people with intellectual difficulties, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship should extend the incentive programmes currently offered only for full-time employment with programmes involving part-time work, etc. In Croatia, only a few people with intellectual difficulties are employed or have at least some jobs. The Croatian Labour Act explicitly prohibits discrimination based on either physical or metal damage. But employers are not required to ensure a proportionate, realistic and adequate number of jobs for people with disabilities. Accordingly, Croatia is not meeting the requirements of the European Union yet. Directives on employment. So what was now done in Croatia, that after many difficulties, was actually established a Fund for the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons, but he barely functioned. And the very way it works is causing a lot of doubts. First of all, the funds received by the Fund for Functioning are projected to be 0.1% of the amount allocated to pension and health insurance of all Croatian employees and additional budget grants. Now there's a few problems. One problem is that through this fund, through the i.e. Assembles according to this article of the law, collects enough i.e. A lot of funds were reportedly collected for 2005, and 70 million kunas were collected to spend only 9 million kunas. And the rest of the funds are being poured into some other ministries. Some also warn just as these funds are spent in companies themselves, i.e. to support the fund, not to be spent on the employment of disabled persons in the open labour market, but to be spent mainly on some form of protection workshops. Some employers who used the funds of these funds thus say that one part of these grants were used to repay debts and another part of the guarantee for new loans. It could therefore be said that these funds were used to preserve jobs, not to create new jobs. I think these things, in this fund, should be cleared up as soon as possible, so that the fund can work on the welfare of the disabled. to hire more and more people from year to year. And since he's got insurance, I think that would be possible. So much for this very convention of laws, therefore, with a basic message that we will support this convention, but that life, the status of our people with disabilities, will not change by passing more and more laws, but by applying these laws in practice and in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88935	Thank you. At 12 and 6 it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88936	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, the Croatian Peasant Party Club, as the representatives of the remaining clubs have said, will support the acceptance of this declaration with the knowledge that the declaration itself will not lead to significant changes. And we really accept here the claims that have been made that it is also a declaration that accepts the already existing rights, that most of these rights have already been implemented in our legislation. But reality, reality, is very different. We accept and insist that, of course, the remaining rights that have not been implemented, the improvement of rights that are not well regulated, that it enters our legislation, that we have laws. However, we do not have to expect too much from the laws themselves unless we establish an apparatus that will allow for the realisation of existing laws. We've been pointing all the time to the need to involve people with disabilities in society, in their socialization. The biggest accident for a disabled person is that it's excluded from society, that it's socially isolated. It's the greatest evil that can happen to any man. And providing one-time or not knowing what kind of financial assistance does not achieve satisfaction, does not achieve the goal and purpose of including such a person. This is why employment is the most important thing for these people. In our daily strategy, the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities pointed out that there was a company of capital that employed exclusively or mostly persons with disabilities. Of course, the objections were that these capital companies did not operate positively, and there was State intervention. And so instead of accepting the fact that a person with disabilities can sometimes not give a working effect the way it is needed, that its working norm cannot be like any other, we simply disbanded such companies of capital and disabled people into the labour market with equal conditions as any other citizen. Of course, it is unrealistic to expect in a society where we have 300 thousand unemployed that employers will, therefore, be offered a wider offer, in a very rich range of offers to choose people with disabilities. In such a way, although it is not a saying of discrimination, it is de facto a matter of silence or disguised discrimination because there is always a reason why one of the other candidates was chosen. In order to enable people with disabilities to be involved in the world of work, programmes and really necessary specific programmes and specific incentive measures are needed to encourage employers to employ people with disabilities. However, if we keep in mind at the same time that the debate was held at the previous point when we discussed in favour of establishing the Work Protection Day on April 28th, then we pointed out in fact the unprotection of disabled workers. And we said that we were declaring ourselves to protect those people. But it's just declarative and it's like moral support, moral support. And the very effect of that day will not be significant. Also here, we will accept this declaration in this Croatian Assembly. However, there remains a bitter fact as we have heard that I am not repeating the data, that out of 430,000 people with disabilities, there are even 190,000 people with disabilities. It is impossible to conclude and say that these are persons who are 100% healthless for any other job. We have passed the Requalification Act, however, this requalification law itself will not lead to those persons involved by law in the disability pension system with insufficient or inadmissible low incomes that we will include them in the world of work to carry out the jobs for which there is a residual health capacity. So ultimately, the Advocacy Club will support the adoption of this Convention but we hope that the Secretary of State will explain to us in its final word the fact that the neutral funds for programmes applied to persons with disabilities. Both the Employment Fund and the whole other set of programs that every ministry actually has. Each ministry has items designed for the implementation of the programme, however, these items have been spent with a small part. These items are later relocated to some other items, and in fact, from those assets that we have well-intentioned in good faith when we adopt the budget, we have provided for the improvement of these most sensitive groups of our citizens, these funds have not been spent. We also read a report on the implementation of a national strategy that spoke about what was done to facilitate the lives of those people. So we saw that the good part of the school still has no approach that would allow people with disabilities to enter schools. If we don't allow ourselves to enter, we certainly don't allow education. It would therefore be very interesting to look at the reasons for not using the intended and approved funds. Because as long as we have no reason for these reasons that would be logical, which would indicate objective circumstances, we will argue that there is no political will to help this socially sensitive part of the citizens and make life easier for them. In the previous debate, at the previous point, I pointed out exactly the abolished rights of disabled workers such as the right to part-time. Like the right to redistribute to another workplace. But it's a finding. We have not received any indication, no indication that he is in that section and thus wants to protect himself. We appreciate and understand the insistence of employers that he is interested in having a healthy workforce. Of course we appreciate it. But the burden and risk of transformation cannot be borne by those who have had a job and who are not able to work and health, are not capable of a certain type of work. They could certainly find jobs with an employer in another workplace. However, the most painless and easy team is to declare these people a technological surplus and send them to pensions so-called. disability pensions. It is unacceptable and as long as we have such an approach, as long as we have such an approach we cannot say that there is an honest political will to facilitate the life of people with disabilities. So ultimately, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports this Convention, but also points to the need, to the need for unity between theory and practice, because the very theory under which we define the laws themselves without it being, to be inhaled into practice means nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88937	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88938	Dear Mr. President Lalic said that there is no political will to help this group of citizens, so the employment of disabled people. Which is not true for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities in 2003 is not invested, no kuna has been allocated, and according to the 2007 budget, it will be invested, i.e. 37 million kuna is foreseen. I think that's best said about the political will of this government to help these citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88939	State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88940	Honorable Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the opening presentation of the conventions, it is the standard of all rights of persons with disabilities. The document as said here several times is of historical importance to persons with disabilities because they have to, because they have the right to those who do not have the right to say that it is a declarative nature because all provisions of this Convention after ratification must be incorporated into national legislation and thus the behaviour of society against persons with disabilities will be determined. That's clear to everyone. As far as translation of the Convention and the Faculty Protocol is concerned, I must make it very clear here that this is an authentic translation of the Convention and the English-language Protocol, which was carried out by distinguished experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity. Article 12, which provides for equality before the law, is also a translation from the English language and means legal capacity. In its implementing documents, the Government of the Republic of Croatia means in the National Strategy following this Convention and Protocol... the possibility of people with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means protecting persons with disabilities, both legal, business and business, and in working capacity. As regards the proposal or the CNS remark, why the haste procedure? I must make it clear that this Government of the Republic of Croatia on respect, promotion and protection of persons with disabilities in its legal and implementing acts as well as concrete action on the ground in the protection of persons with disabilities is doing everything possible to ensure that this category of Croatian citizens is fully protected and included in society. The application of the HSLS or the view that this Convention may be difficult to implement has already been answered at the outset. But I must also say that the implementing documents that go after this, after this Convention and Protocol, means the National Strategy which is now at the final stage talking about all the holders and participants of the measures in the national strategy where the obligations of all the ministries, bodies of the state administration and the county and cities in the Republic of Croatia are and there are talking about the deadlines as well as the necessary financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is the same government, this Government has provided. The Convention and Protocol that goes with this and the implementing acts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon adopt will significantly mean that these documents will improve the status of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia has just now built a system of rights of persons with disabilities which is largely in line with the rights of persons with disabilities and in accordance with this Convention and with the standards of the European Union. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88941	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88942	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary of State who said it was incorrect that this convention was a declarative nature because all this would have to be implemented in legislation. Mr. Secretary, the very fact that we are implementing the law, and making it impossible for the user to consume it is a right to declare it. Here, the right of a disabled person to work, that's their constitutional right. In which way we intend to enable the consumption of this right and those persons who have certain obstacles that other citizens do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88943	And respected representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88944	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State I think that translation of the text, so the convention did not do well, given that in this book that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity printed in 2006, it says that the states of the signatories will accept that persons with disabilities have full business capacity, so that gives a much higher level of rights. And in this text we got on the bench, it says "legal." You're Mr. President's attorney, so evaluate the higher the level of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88945	Thank you. An individual debate by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88946	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me really express my satisfaction with the adoption of the Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention. A great contribution with the Government and the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity has been made by persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia personally or through the union of persons with disabilities in Croatia. This government has supported, among the first countries, the adoption of the Convention in the United Nations, bearing in mind the protection of human rights of all persons with disabilities and fundamental freedoms without discrimination on the basis of disability, with equal enjoyment or the application of rights and fundamental freedoms. The Convention expressly prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in all areas of life including civil rights, rights to education, health services, accessibility in transport, access to justice, training, rehabilitation, etc. Of course, the State shall promote, protect and monitor the implementation of this Convention in accordance with its legal and administrative system. Care for people with disabilities is an important part of social responsibility in our society since 10% of our society is people with disabilities. However, the quality of life of disabled persons does not determine its primary developmental damage. For example, the degree of visual, hearing impairment or so on. similar already the conditions and impacts of the environment to which the person is exposed. The key influence in achieving the quality of life of people with disabilities is the attitudes of the social environment. Public sensitisation, i.e. A positive attitude towards all persons with disabilities is the basis for the activation of the necessary factors in society and for the achievement of all the conditions defining the quality of life. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed special care for the state dedicated to the protection of disabled persons and their inclusion in social life. Persons with disabilities have all the rights and freedoms that come from the Declaration of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that we have just brought to this House. Despite all these documents, however, people with disabilities face obstacles in their efforts to participate in society as equal members as well as human rights violations. At ministry level, the government implements various projects, such as the Ministry of Health and Social Care, financially supported programmes and projects of NGOs to encourage the inclusion of people with disabilities in community life. A psycho-social support project is being implemented for children who care for their parents with disabilities, providing tools to adapt textbooks for blind and undersighted children involved in the regular education system, continuously implementing education and counselling programmes for the self-employment of deaf women. The Institute of Personal Assistants, the Institute of Advocates has been established, implementing an accessibility project, etc. However, I believe that with the general principles of respect for dignity, non-discrimination, respect for differences and acceptance of persons with disabilities as part of human diversity, respecting the principle of developmental skills of children with developmental difficulties, will sensitize everyone in society to contribute to improving the quality of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88947	Thank you. Two replicas. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88948	Well well colleagues spotted and especially apostrophe of people with disabilities and especially blind people. It's one, it's hard to measure disability now, but blindness we'll agree on something is extremely, extremely difficult. It may be difficult to measure with other aspects of disability. Unfortunately, however, Croatia is among me thinking of rare countries that have not solved the problem of its citizens, blind citizens and has no addendum to blindness. Many countries have developed it by several hundred euros. One France 500 to 700 euros, however, and countries we do not like to compare with have solved the problem. One Albania, one Serbia has an addendum to blindness, and we are not at least the financial possibility of our country at this time to at least throw our attention to those persons with an extremely, extremely difficult vision of disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88949	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88950	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrades, blind people have an addendum to blindness, but it is not enough compared to other countries and this government will do everything to fix it. However, you yourself know that the right register has not yet been made and that not enough data has been archived, not enough data has been submitted to do so yet, and I believe in this government and indeed, at the end of the day, one of the conclusions I think of the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy and that these data are being updated and that this section is being made and that this blindness supplement is increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88951	Second replica of the respected representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88952	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree more or less with your presentation, but you have pointed out well that some measures are not being implemented. For example, I am terribly irritated, I can say that word and people with disabilities that the Government cannot simply create its own policy towards people with disabilities through pilot projects. So, you can't on a small sample of 50, 60 or 120 people say that it's the law, that you're doing something. It's not really doing anything, it's dusting, it's clouding the real problem. Also this unfortunate fund he doesn't work for my people. Let's tell the truth and tell the truth the fund doesn't work. Who's responsible for this fund's failure? So we're creating a new category of unemployed people. Also, equalising the rights of persons with disabilities clearly drawn in the national strategy by 2006. There's not a single right that's evened out, the new national strategy hasn't been adopted. Also, on my parliamentary question, I have been asking for the third time what with the release of VAT on imports of cars for civilian people with the most severe degree of damage. However, the government suits me, and this does not suit me with the Prime Minister, whom I have asked the question of Ms. Vice President. He says the government provides a lot of money and that this purpose will be provided with funds when the state has them. So when this country is going to have money for people with disabilities, it's really not clear to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88953	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88954	Thank you very much. It turns out from your replica that this government really doesn't do anything for people with disabilities. However, you yourself said that this convention has already been implemented in our legislation. Therefore, at local level, it depends on us how much this law enforcement will take place. That this government does, I can tell you a series of measures that this government has made out of health care, sports, recreation, modernisation of curricula, from providing funds for the most favourable conditions of self-employment lending to people with disabilities, ensuring accessibility in the system of culture, etc. So it's not true that it doesn't seem and certainly that our personal concerns could seem more. But you yourself know that everything depends on the economic situation in the country where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88955	Dear Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88956	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I fully accept the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And I'm saying that because I've been consulting people with disabilities, and they're totally agreeing with this proposal. However, I was told that I should point out that these funds provided for in the draft of this law are impractical that they are not very thorough rights so that they should be seen in the budgets which these funds are and correct... Secondly, a large number of regulations regulate this matter and therefore there are major problems with the exercise of rights, so this should be seen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we said so when we proposed the Law on the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities, and we should probably take a lot of care of that too. And secondly, they suggest that equating persons with disabilities without distinction to the cause of disability. They feel that these differences are too large because some fees are 10% less than others, that this should be regulated in some way. As for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities right here in the Preamble, here I fully accept, this is me and the new term that I've heard for the first time. He says that disability is a concept that is still developing and that disability is created as a result of the interaction of persons with damages and obstacles stemming from the position of their environment and from obstacles that exist in the environment that prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with other people. This alone gives us a great opportunity to talk about people with disabilities, their rights and everything we have to do to make it better. Here speaks Article 2 of the Convention, says communication includes languages, text presentation, Braille letters including available information and communication technology. He's telling us a lot what we need to do here. We've got a lot planned for in our laws. However, this is not all done the way it should be. I don't know if it's Braill's letter, how it's available to them, whether they have the ability to learn to write because I know that we used to approve those machines in the Social Security Act. If there's such a right today I don't know, we'd really have to see how to make all this happen here. We would also need to see how they could have everything that should be available to them. Here children with developmental difficulties, the state says it will provide all measures to ensure children with developmental difficulties enjoy the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms equally with other children. Today, I don't think it's possible, because there are certain problems in primary schools, because there are no lessons available to people in wheelchairs, especially if it's upstairs and there's no elevators. Then those children have to carry their parents up by themselves so that he can attend and be educated. It also discusses the development and implementation of laws and policies in the context of the implementation of this Convention and other decision-making procedures concerning persons with disabilities of the Contracting States will be thoroughly consulted with persons with disabilities and will actively involve them as well as children with developmental difficulties through organisations representing them. Here, I would be very pleased if you had consulted these organizations when you passed this law because there are plenty of them, they have a roof organization at the level of the Republic and also in the county and in the cities and municipalities. So I have no idea that they were consulted when this law was passed so that they were educated in the way that they were available. Whether it's via the Internet or if it's something, someone's notifying. As far as Article 9 is concerned, it says: "The States of the Parties to this Convention will take appropriate measures to ensure the accessibility of persons with disabilities, construction, environment, transport of information and communication. We need to realize that as far as this transport is concerned, people with disabilities especially those in a wheelchair then blind people with a dog guide have problems. Then there is a big problem and a means of transport because in order for a disabled person to get to, up to, take the bus inside. Who's going to bring it in? What kind of a problem do we know? It may also be necessary to provide those associations of disabled persons with specific vehicles where they could then jump in and take such a person. For example, if you have to go to a doctor, if you have to do a number of other things. In addition to these barriers, architectural barriers should also be seen that all have certain opportunities to fix it. Because I believe that some municipalities cannot allocate funds from their budget to do so at least, but also allow them to at least when new roads work, new leggosts to arrange it and make it possible for disabled people to move. That's where we talk about education. We spoke a little before because he said, "The development of persons with disabilities as well as their talents and creativity and mental and physical abilities in their full potential." I don't know these people probably don't have such opportunities no matter how smart and talented they are because there are very, very creative and capable people among them. So it's not all as accessible to them as it should be. Here's work and employment. There are many, many things about work and employment that are well regulated by our law, our laws and regulations, but they are not respected. Also, it is known that every 50 in the state services or mainly in the public services departments that should employ a disabled person on each 49, however, this does not happen. Or it rarely happens. Also, employers do not have much knowledge about disabled people. They expect these people to be a lot on sick leave which is not true because you.... /Short... /... [[You don't understand.]] Okay, here, here, so since everything's in a hurry together, let me just say this on the last one where I would talk a little bit, it's a college protocol. Here we give the recognition and competence of the Committee on Rights with Disabilities for receiving and considering the performances delivered by individuals or on behalf of individuals or groups of individuals who are in its administrative jurisdiction. Here we give a great deal of right here, these people to complain about. And that is exactly how this great fight awaits us for the exercise of these rights and our very, very great responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88957	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on 30 May, the Law established the mention of the day of the Croatian Parliament as a memorial of the day of work and we remember the day of the Croatian Assembly and mark it at work. The mention of the day of the Croatian Parliament on 30 May was established as the day of memory and mention of the establishment of the first free democratic multiparty elected Croatian Parliament, 30 May 1999 and the historical role of the Croatian Parliament... And the historical role of the Croatian Parliament in preserving Croatian statehood over many centuries. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, May 30, 1990. Many generations, MPs, representatives of the Croatian Parliament since the first in the history of the Croatian Parliament, those who were also on the battlefield, who were also in various parts of Croatia marking this memorial day we give thanks to their historical role in preserving Croatian statehood and Croatian sovereignty. At the preservation of Croatian statehood over the centuries or through a whole millennium where in these gatherings of fire of Croatian statehood, Croatian sovereignty was heated and uninterrupted, even in those circumstances when it seemed to have completely shut down, it was still reflected and flared up in order to ultimately have the Croatian Parliament in the first multilateral democratic elections as a true representation of Croatian people and citizens of Croatia in these 17 years, unfulfilled 17 years established as a modern, democratic national representation, legislative body and political representation of all Croatian citizens, and therefore we need to mark it properly. Today at a ceremony concert at the Croatian National Theatre will be an appropriate concert with a previous, previous screening of a documentary film on the role and development of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Parliamentism will be in an appropriate manner and presented to me in this way in, with several appropriate words, working in the best way and marking this memorial day of the Croatian Parliament. To all MPs, to all MPs, to the entire Croatian people and to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia I congratulate on behalf of the Croatian Parliament his day, his memorial day. Replica esteemed representative Vesna Škulić. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you colleagues from the Croatian Retirement Party are right to point out that persons with disabilities from Croatia did not participate in the process of adopting this Convention. So no one in the NGO sector was in New York. However, it does not reduce their work on the ground here in Croatia. Of course, NGOs as regards persons with disabilities in Croatia. I also think it should be clarified that the Convention sets standards. It is not a bad document and it is good to have it because, of course, we must create our own legislation. However, a mistake has already been made at the very beginning because we, I am personally of the opinion that we should first clear Croatian legislation and align it with the articles in the Convention, and for this we had a good platform, and this is a National Strategy that should also be adopted in parallel with this Convention. So, I think there's been enough time and it's not enough just to provide resources for social care and, I don't know about education, because people with disabilities need to live a full life in all segments of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88959	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Kozin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88960	You're absolutely right about that. I believe that exactly what we've given this committee the authority to control us I think we'll come more seriously to matter and that our responsibility will be much, much greater. At least I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88961	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it would now be appropriate to suspend the debate and continue it at 15.00 hours. It is up to the esteemed Vice President Mato Arlovic and more MPs, Dorotea Pesic Bukovac, with an extension at 15.00 hours. At 1700 hours, we'd interrupt today's session, at 1700 hours so everyone could prepare for the theater tonight. Yeah, and toilets and everything, so ladies and gentlemen with their mates and mates are going to be tonight, in principle, married. We continue with the session and the debate. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88963	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. First, I'd have an objection to point IV. an explanation relating to the means necessary. In fact, the Rules of Procedure require the provision of the necessary means to implement the law. It cannot be said that the necessary resources in the state budget for 2008 and beyond will be provided. So, you don't even talk about what everything will be planned except in a few individual items that actually speak about what the ministry will do even though it is quite clear that the Ministry of Science, then the Institute of Health, and then the Ministry of the Family, etc. and health and social care cannot actually cover all necessary alignments of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with this Convention. Fairly speaking, almost all the laws of education and education, which regulates education and education, should, in fact, be brought into line with this Convention in a single segment and should therefore be more carefully and accurately written and planned. Secondly, another site that is very interesting should be opened, and this is a question of harmonising our legislation with this Convention and harmonising our legislation with the regulations and acquiss of the European Union. In this respect, it should also be kept in mind that the European Union will also have to bring one part of the legislation in line with this Convention, while at the same time we in accession talks and negotiations must actually bring our legislation into line with the European Union so that two jobs can happen to us. Now, thirdly, several individual remarks because I simply cannot show all the ones I have prepared, but I think they must also be said because they impose or raise some questions regarding harmonisation of legislation and further action. So let me choose. Article 6(1) In one convention that needs to be resolved in a fundamental or better way, it is necessary to create conditions for the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities completely unacceptable that, in the text of the Convention, you know the second is in the accessible explanation of the Convention, but in the text of the Convention to write that in the framework of the United Nations, it is written that States Parties recognise that women and girls with disabilities are exposed to multiple discrimination. It's a respected colleague and fellow disaster, a disaster to me, that it's prescribed here to forbid and to impose on the states that have it, etc. that it must do so would be something other than go with a declaration of recognition, and then only in the teaching section is it said that in this sense measures will be taken to ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all their human rights and freedoms. First rights are not enjoyed, but come true. Secondly, the issue of these measures now raises the question, whether they are political, economic, legal, or all kinds of things, and in such a situation, I am sure that this issue should be further regulated. The second one of my individual comments is Article 9. Here, among other things, it is well spoken of that persons with disabilities have the right to Braiell's letter, to have the right to other forms of assistance in the form of personal assistants, the needs of persons with disabilities in order to... access, to have the promotion of other appropriate forms of assistance, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is whether we are aware that we should change the law on the basis of this, among other things in Croatian television, that we will need to change some other regulations that regulate information for a simple reason, please take only deaf and deaf persons on this basis, they have the right to ask that, in fact, with the imaged information they get, they can actually inform themselves at the same time or, of course, on the basis of the mime to be further informed or those who are blind to have the right to hear any of the things spoken. Therefore, I think it is quite clear that some things in this regard will have to be resolved in particular. It is a very unusual facilitation of objections to three, Article 11, where it is said that States parties will undertake in accordance with their obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law and international law involving human rights. The first is an unusual manipulation, the second very interesting situation of international-humanitarian law is one of the oldest forms of achieving and protecting specific human rights, and in this respect it should have actually been a little bit more precise, but let's leave this precision aside, but here the States will now take the risk situations including situations and armed conflicts to take appropriate measures to ensure that persons with disabilities are protected. I support a grateful idea with a very high degree of support, but at the same time I ask the question of who will implement it. In the case of humanitarian law, the only person in that segment has the possibility of action is the International Red Cross and, of course, the domestic Red Cross institutions. The question is whether we are aware of what obligation we will have to make to this part of the domestic Red Cross, whether we are aware of what real situations we are going to have to take because this is not only about helping people, but also about managing crisis situations, it is not just about war, but also about humanitarian crises, in the case of natural disasters, etc., etc. Therefore, I support this, I accept this, but at the same time I am aware of the time and resources needed to implement this issue as well as the need to amend the law that this part should organise and prescribe and ensure that it is implemented. It must not be forgotten that in such a situation will actually further strengthen the obligations of humanitarian organisations, above all the Red Cross and I do not know Croatian Caritas. In Article 14, I repeat a strange formulation to me, the States will ensure that persons with disabilities enjoy the right to personal freedom and security in the same way as others. Why is this formulation strange to me? Because before that, we got a form on the ban on discrimination. Therefore, as soon as you say that you need to ensure that someone achieves the same freedom and security, you actually secretly admit that there is discrimination. And in such a situation here it should be explicitly forbidden that the freedom and security of persons with disabilities can actually be questioned and it must not be below the level of persons who, fortunately, have no disability, and can be... its degree of freedom and security may be increased depending on the disability deficiencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 20 opens a very interesting issue of possible interpretation of our or our official government regarding, for example, the VAT Act. For example, point (d) of Article 20(1) states: Encouragement of companies that produce tools to move from complete technology to take into account all aspects of the mobility of persons with disabilities. Will we be able to achieve this incentive at last, so that we can lift the VAT on disabled aids that should be given to our... Regardless of the degree of disability, it is important that it is necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we will now have power, a government that will defend the position of some of the professors who represent VAT in interpretation with the European Union that this is not possible, that VAT must be equal for all. And then the question arises, and how will this actually be encouraged, and how will business be encouraged to do so? They only have to work eventually so that the state can recognise this part through compensation. But then you ask the question of the equality of the subjects in the business? Or, for example, Article 27, in which, among other things, point B. says: Protection of persons with disabilities on an equal footing with others as regards fair and favourable working conditions including equal opportunities, equal pay for work, same value, safe and sound working conditions with protection against harassment and legal protection in the event of complaints. Well then, the exercise of labour rights to persons with disabilities on an equal footing with others. You see, in this respect, they really need to be given not only equal rights and equal opportunities but independently in these possible disadvantages resulting from the inability to carry out certain parts of the business or operation must not be transferred to the burden of a disabled person, but should this be compensated if who, company or company or state should now be compensated? I think the state and in such a situation this issue should be further worked out. Of course not in this convention because it is now resolved but remains a matter that will need to be resolved in our laws, is actually more from that aspect when we talk about this Convention to be aware of it. And now that it is already over, I will say one more sentence, related to Article 34 concerning the Protocol, for example, paragraph 2 where the Protocol says, among other things, that anonymous applications on the one hand will not be considered, or the applications of members of this Convention which do not have, have not been signed by the Protocol on the Committee, if they have been delivered and if they are correct. So what's the point? Is it a purpose to implement the convention or to actually allow those persons, the committee to receive wages and be rewarded? I think that part should be put in some next version as an objection that rights could be achieved, even more quality protection for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88964	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few remarks Mr. Arlovic made about your exposure even though I agree with most of what you said. However, I'd like to supplement you a little bit. Talk to many delegations, among other things, the Finnish delegation. They gave themselves two years until the ratification of the Convention, or for the harmonisation of their domestic legislation, so as to be able to implement the Convention as best possible. So, a Finland that is much richer and much more sensitized than we are about people with disabilities. No deaf person was mentioned either. And as for this Article, the 11th risk situation and the humanitarian crisis, it is otherwise an article of the Croatian delegation, since we have seen people with disabilities not being protected, have not been protected enough in the conflicts that took place during the 1990s in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we needed to put people with disabilities in risk situations for that very reason and when humanitarian crisis situations arise. And it is also a fact that there is no respect for Article 27 that regulates work and employment, because there is a Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment that should have hired many people with disabilities for a long time. And we'd have a lot, a lot less problems and eventually we'd have already absorbed this article 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88966	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88967	I think Finland has acted tactically. She actually decided to comply with a convention she hadn't even ratified yet, but she signed. However, what we have done, we have prescribed a constitutional obligation to do so. Therefore, if you look at among other things here it is also stated, this law confirms the conventions and the university protocol in order to make their provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which is true. By ratifying this Convention, according to our Constitution, it becomes an internal part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, according to its legal power it will be above the law. The question remains, what happens if our laws don't agree and at the same time our disabled persons initiates a procedure to protect their rights by calling for the legal basis of the Convention? In particular, taking into account that some of the rights in the Convention which I have cited as an example are described. Therefore, they are not concrete but are descriptively indicated and give opportunity through the interpretation of these legal standards a very broad interpretation actually of the achievement between other freedom and the safety of persons with disabilities in relation to such issues. I think we're going to have a lot of serious problems about the functioning of the legal order. But well, this will actually mean the need for accelerated work to bring legislation into line with this Convention which should open the conditions that, in fact, the sooner and the more quality of the legal instrument for the implementation of this Convention, so that it should not be directly applied, because in some of the rights it regulates, it cannot be applied, given that it is written as, in the text of a political declaration, rather than the text of a legal law that can be called the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88968	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88969	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I hope that this convention and the university protocol that goes along with the convention will contribute as much to solving all the problems that have accumulated and are related to the rights of persons with disabilities. Although a large number of documents are from national strategies, declarations, regulations, instructions, laws, reports, conventions and similar documents, they are not by themselves a guarantee of solving the problem of persons with disabilities. I must remind you here that there are over 280 different regulations in our legislation regarding persons with disabilities and that, of course, the concepts in these regulations are inconsistencies, so our own bureaucracy is also considered to be the right to interpret regulations as they are wanted, so that in some places they are interpreted in one way and in other environments in another way. On the other hand, it is evident that the government is doing everything in its power to gain time or not to have to equalise the rights of all people with disabilities because it would, of course, cost it. Here, I'm going to give an example that was here in our House and I can say that it's also the most impressive. Let me remind you, six years ago, representatives in the Croatian Parliament tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draft a Law on the Equality of Persons with Disabilities, but until today it was not done even though here were two governments. So the question arises why this didn't happen, and even now that these disabled associations have drawn up the draft law themselves, they've also organised petition gatherings, they've had protests, they've collected a circus of 38 thousand signatures and when they wanted to hand the petition over to the Prime Minister he's refused to receive them twice as smoothly, so twenty days ago, here they are, on a simple misery, received by Minister Ljubicic. So they said from the associations, it's true and you can read the minutes of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. And I also addressed a letter to the government, where I asked them when they were going to equalize the disabled and of course give them an allowance to disability. And now I'm going to read you a passport from that answer. And this is how the Croatian Institute of Public Health completes the process of collecting data on the cause, type, degree and severity of damage to the health of persons with disabilities who are entered into the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities. The completion of the collection of those data will determine the exact number of persons with disabilities. In parallel, it is also necessary to define the concept of severe disability as best as possible and all with a view to accessing calculations in relation to the requirements of the Croatian Association of Blind and Other Persons with Disabilities. Here, it only goes in favor of what I said I wanted to get on time. And the fact is that for now there are 18,000 634 people with disabilities in the register and to avoid solving that problem and gain time goes back into fulfilling the register. I also remind you that in the old strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was worth 2003-2006, the equalisation should already be over. But to this day as we know it isn't, but who cares it's just a national strategy and there are no sanctions for unfinished business. We know that it is now in 2007 and already in mid-2007, and there is no new national strategy in sight. As far as this proposal was concerned, the very association is now the biggest problem why it went towards the Ministry of the Family, intergenerational solidarity and did not go towards the Ministry of Health and Social Care as if it were not the same government. And that's how any law-making and law-making is also delayed. But let me point it out one more time. I support the actual signing of the Convention and Protocols as well as my club IDS, but I believe that our government must be faster, more efficient and sensitive to disabled persons and that it must involve them in all the processes that concern them as they themselves know best what they need. I think that nothing but the current and this signing of the Convention and Protocols by 2008 will happen, and that is because only then will we have to approach the adoption of this law before we enter the European Union because it is one of our obligations to pass such a law. That's why it's very important for us to do three things. To pass a law on equalising the rights of disabled people, to even, to simplify the rules so that everyone can be understood and put everything in one place so that everyone can have a better view of all the rights they have. And you should never share the disabled again on how they became disabled, whether by birth, whether at work, whether at war. Every disabled person should be treated in the same way because he is disabled and in such a way should be treated rather than shared with the disabled in the way they have become. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88970	Thank you. Final Review of State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88971	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. It is not true that the president of the Croatian government has smoothly rejected representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. In view of his occupancy, the first possible term was given by Mr. Minister of Health, which is a human order and how sensitive this government is to that population in Croatia, then I ask you on page three of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities measures that have been done, so I will only list a few and the most important is the provision of funds for the most favourable conditions of lending to persons with disabilities, ensuring accessibility in the system of health care and the equipment of rehabilitation centres, ensuring accessibility in the system of culture, ensuring accessibility in the system of science, education and sport, ensuring accessibility in the system of tourism, on specific hotel markings adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities, etc. Please read page 3 and page 4 and then you will be able to see and then when you accept this truth you will be able to speak about the sensitivity of the Croatian Government and ruling for this population that is indisputably necessary for specialities and for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88972	Thank you. Final Review of State Secretary Stjepan Adanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88973	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as this is an authentic document in front of you, I have said in advance that there have been respected experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration as well as from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. So we can discuss this document here. He's authentic and he's right. As for some of the previous questions about the pilot project here, I need to look back at the situation that this government has introduced this great project. It's a project of a person, of a personal... for people with the most difficult group and type of disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also need to address some of the issues that have been discussed here about the National Strategy. I must say that it could not be adopted before the Council of Europe's action plan was adopted and the convention was signed. In addition, the adoption of such a comprehensive document requires and a special procedure means the opinions of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities as well as the competent authorities for implementation. It should also be made clear here that 45 measures from the last strategy continue to be implemented continuously and 22 measures are fully implemented. The measures from the new strategy whose deadline for implementation is the end of this year, meaning the end of 2007 were introduced into the regular programming activities of the government of the Republic of Croatia. And before the end, ladies and gentlemen, the government is particularly sensitive to the needs of people with disabilities. It therefore makes great legal, organisational, financial and other efforts to make this great, in order to make the big and important group of Croatian citizens life as best and as decent as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88974	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88975	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Something's obviously not right. I think you incorrectly stated that this is authentic. If it's authentic what we get on the benches as materials I ask what's wrong with this? Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Faculty Protocol with the Convention issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Persons with Disabilities and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The difference between this and what we received is in Article 12(2). This says that people with disabilities have full business skills, and the materials that we have here say they have legal capacity. Forgive Croatian practice if I am not mistaken, these are two different things. And please give me more at the end of the line than we adopt this, we're going to vote for you from the Ministry to answer what's authentic here. If this isn't then please withdraw it from use.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88976	Legal capacity refers to legal or natural persons that they can be in legal and any other transport. A business ability is another category [[Intruder: There are two different things.]] which refers to the full or partial capacity for legal operation. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] If that's the case, then you have to, if it's in the original that it's a business ability, then it can't be translated with legal personality. Tell the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88977	... The source means legal capacity. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] This book that was printed she was printed I think at the 12th month of last year and she's not the document this Parliament or anyone in this House should talk about. If we need it, we'll pull that book. She's not an authentic document. The authentic document is that document that you have here in front of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88978	And we'll see about that very easily. The original of the Convention should be taken. Source, origin of the Convention...... You don't need Vesna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The originator of the Convention will take it and then see with translation to Croatian, in English what stands? Is it because in English, the expression is legally different from the expression business, right? So, that's what we're gonna, you see, well, I'm closing the debate on this. Final draft law confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? Unanimity with 100 votes passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88981	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The small economy as a summary concept includes crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies and other forms of private, entrepreneurial activity. It is one of the most important drivers of overall economic development. It promotes private ownership and entrepreneurial skills. It is adaptable to changes in the market. Generates employment. It helps diversify economic activities and contributes significantly to increasing production and exports, making it the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Small economy entities account for as much as 99% of the total number of economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. It is the same as in the European Union, and at the same time 56% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy are employed and make up an important share of the gross domestic product. In 2002, the Small Economy Development Act was adopted and created a legal basis for taking economic policy measures aimed at the dynamic development of the entire economy, and in particular measures adapted to defined small economy economic operators. The amendment of the Accounting Act, as well as the optional guidelines of the European Union, has led to non-compliance with the definitions of the size of economic operators in Croatia. The national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2006 has given Croatia the obligation to comply with the rules of national legislation with the Acqui Communityaire, which will be largely fulfilled by the adoption of this law. The aim of this law is to simplify the environment for a small economy by using a common definition in accordance with the Accounting Act. Improve statistical reporting by avoiding multiple statistical definitions, establishing a better management system for small economy incentives to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency of government development guidelines. Given the large number of support programmes to the small economy implemented in the Republic of Croatia. A harmonised and detailed definition aims to ensure greater legal certainty and to respect economic reality which will lead to simplification and acceleration of administrative procedures in cases where the division of micro-small and medium-sized economic operators is necessary. The Act amending and supplementing the Small Economy Development Act shall be governed by the following. The definition of small economy coverage with a view to precise identification of the small economy target group which is intended for incentive measures in accordance with the Accounting and Recommendations Act of the European Union, the criteria for the distinction of micro- and medium-sized enterprises, specific incentive measures for vocational education, retraining and the retraining of workers or the application of the principle of lifelong learning, the mandatory application of State aid rules for granting support, the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, the number of holders of the small economy development programme is increased, thus establishing a broader institutional framework for the implementation and control of incentive measures, and thus achieving the objectives set. And the legal terminology is also harmonised with the Law on Design and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. I must say that this is the first law in the Republic of Croatia to assess the impact of the law on the economy where we have measured the impact of different definitions for a small economy in the preparation of legislation, and we have put the definition of the Law on Accounting and the definition of the Small Economy Encouragement Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Small Economic Development Act will create assumptions for improving transparency and accessibility of small economy incentives while raising the level of compliance of measures with the European Union recommendations, and a greater number of entrepreneurs will have the right to run for incentive programmes for a small economy in the Republic of Croatia but also in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88982	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88983	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable gentlemen of the proposings, the honourable MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 58th session held on 17 May 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Small Economy Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 26 April 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as a parent working body. The Committee was informed of the observations made by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in accordance with Article 2 of this proposal in the sense that the said article is not no-technically well-supplyed in terms of inaccuracies which must be fulfilled from the criteria for the classification of economic operators in micro and macro-entity. On Article 10, and in the light of the question of the relevance of the proposal on which 4 representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship should be members of the Management Board of the HAMAG including a proposal to reduce the number of members of the Management Board itself, and a proposal for the representative of the HBOR to be a member of the Management Board of the HAMAG. The representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce supported the Croatian Chamber of Commerce proposal, especially the part relating to the reduction of the number of members of the Management Board of HAMAG, and the inclusion of HBOR representatives in the Management Board of HAMAG. It also expressed its view on whether micro-entities of the small economy should be subject to any additional criterion other than the number of employees. In its opening statement, the proposaler's representative informed the committee that the main objective of this law is to align the laws on the promotion of small economy with the Accounting Act and the regulations of the European Union. In the above comments by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the representative of the applicant was determined in such a way as to remain in the scope of Article 2 of this proposal and arranged, and as regards the observations relating to the representative of the HBOR in the Management Board of the HAMG, the latter was removed on the grounds that HBOR was giving credit and HAMAG was issuing a guarantee to the borrower, so that a conflict of interest could arise in the event of acceptance of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. In the debate followed by the committee members, they expressed different views on the above comments, by sticking most to the position of the applicant and a small part of the board to the observations of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The Committee also noted that the European Union is changing the criteria for the identification of small economy micro, macro and medium-sized operators and that we need to adapt to this. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 6 votes for, 1 vote abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88984	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration. I'm opening a debate. Club IDS esteemed representative Valter Drandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88985	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State. Today, more than 700,000 people in Croatia are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts and free professions. It is more than 50% of the employees in Croatia and it shows how strong small and medium-sized enterprises are today in Croatia. At the same time, we unfortunately have about 300 thousand unemployed people. The registered unemployment rate is over 16%, and unfortunately, there are very large differences if we compare unemployment by county. From 7% unemployed in Istria County to 30.6% unemployed in Vukovar-Srijem County. The unemployment rate of more than 20% today has more than half of the county, 11 counties, Požeško-Slavonska, Split-Dalmatia, Lika-Senjska, Sibenik-Kninska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Osijek-Baranja, Karlovska, Brodsko-Posaviska, Sisak-Moslavska, Virovička-Podravska and already mentioned Vukovar-Srijemska. It is obvious that today unemployment is really the biggest problem in Croatia, although we have more. And as much as we all want a better standard of health, education, social care, culture, sports, pensioners and everyone else, it's certainly impossible without strong economic development, a bond of greater employment. New jobs can only be opened by an entrepreneur. And for real shifts in the development of entrepreneurship, the development of the economy needs constant incentives but at all levels, at national, regional and local levels. Encouraging the development of entrepreneurship must be planned, must be continued and must not be as often as I see ad hoc as it sometimes corresponds to current political interests. We must rule out policy from these processes as much as possible, although clearly it cannot be ruled out. And I have to say very clearly that sometimes it is necessary. Because politics can also be very helpful in a positive way to make the development of entrepreneurship, the development of the economy faster, stronger, more quality. And it is time for us from IDS to finally make Croatia a real, national development plan. And that's where we don't need to find hot water. We have many examples in the world. We often refer to the most famous example, such as Ireland, even though there are others and even better ones. So it may be time to apply these and some other positive examples, but at all levels. The NDP, National Development Plan, the National Development Plan is a designation that, for example, in Ireland when you go around cities in industrial areas, you usually see on roads. Almost all development projects bear that mark and there is a full concentration of all policies. Authorities and governments are changing, but the NDP, the National Development Plan, the programme, remains. And there's no deviation. It's obviously a key to success. The key to success is the safety of entrepreneurs that the conditions of business, that incentives will not be constantly changed and that the project that started will be able to be completed under the same conditions or better under which it was started. And that is what many entrepreneurs in Croatia often say that we are missing, that we lack long-term security, the safety of entrepreneurs that will operate on the same rules and a clear concrete development programme that everyone in this country adheres to. It should be said that we also have good results, excellent results in certain environments, in certain municipalities, cities, counties, but that this effect is not even close to one that would have had such a consensus, one clear national development plan and a programme that everyone, regardless of the political options, would have held as something that condiots the cino non-development of Croatia, a better life in this environment. I will tell you, for example, the Istrian County from which I come and where I have personally participated in many of these projects when somewhere in the mid-1990s in the Istrian County we started programmes to encourage the development of entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized economies the comments were mostly so it's not a job of local or regional self-government, it's not a job to do politics, it's someone else's doing. We know from experience around the world that it is a very hard job to do politics and that it is often a job where you get and lose elections and that it is a job that depends on the lives of all of us Croatian citizens. Today, the situation has changed, more than 10 years have passed and today no local or regional self-government, no government in the municipality, city and county, nor in the country can produce results without concrete programmes to encourage economic development, development of entrepreneurship. And that's good. That's positive. That means we've all figured out what's important to this country. When we were somewhere in '95. In Istria started a programme for the development of agriculture, it was the first program we started with, it was strange to co-finance some farmers for planting fruit vines, orchards, olive trees, how from some budget we give money to some people who do private business. And to this day, you've been planted over a million seedlings, say just vines. When we started our winemaking program in Istria, then famous archaeologists advised us that your Malvasia may be the maximum wine to be sold in bottles of 2 liters as some cheap wine in shopping malls. And today there are more than 20 top wine producers in Istria who sell their products to the best restaurants in Croatia and beyond. When we started a well-known program that's been talked about, agrotourism, then it was talked about so who's going to stay living in the country, who's going to edit old houses, who's going to come to the country by this sea at all. And today there are over 200 top objects, over 200 families have arranged their old houses, over 200 families have found their existence and the charge is almost double the capacity of classic hotels. When we were in '99. Founded by the Istrian Development Agency many have said that it will be another parasitic organization for... A politician on a budget burden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the result is the following, 650 million kuna loans to entrepreneurs, 556 implemented business projects, the core capital of 17 million kuna, the total assets of 34 million kuna, not a single kuna from the budget of any city, municipality and county to finance the work of 10 employees working on these projects, developed a regional operational plan of Istria County, launched by many projects, among them I particularly underline a consortium for guarantees the same 21 which has 61 members for new loans and for entrepreneurs who do not have enough guarantees, but have a good project, but have no property to guarantee and that is what is the biggest problem in Croatia today. Today, if you go to the banks, if you're not rich, if you don't have money, you won't get a loan. We need to help people with good ideas get the means to start their project, one of the ways that we in Istria thought was a good way to create guarantees for entrepreneurs and to expand it to the very entrepreneurs who will practically guarantee themselves through their own consortium in the future that the project will be successful and will return successfully. Credits are given at 10 years, interest is 2 years, and guarantees are covered up to 50% of the amount of credit. I'm saying this not to praise a region where I come from, but to bring this debate a little closer to reality, reality, to what entrepreneurs are interested in. There's a lot of talk about entrepreneurship zones. We have 15 in Istria, 87 million kunas, incubators, a project of the Istrian Fair have been invested so far. What is particularly important and what we often forget to take care of and keep out of the way, and most importantly, it is the development of human resources, education. Today we have new people who have lost their jobs, who have simply no longer been able to get a job, have no education needed today in new business conditions, education is extremely important. I'll tell you that only last year 303 people were in Istria County past education programmes by the Istrian Development Agency. These are the results. These are the results of the region and they like to say to themselves that it is the most developed in Croatia and I also think I must tell you as a representative from that region, but I would like all 11 where unemployment is more than 20% at that level and I would like to see some of these programmes and these projects expand to the country as a whole and accept as some model of Croatia's development. So far, there's been little or no hearing. So it's possible to do something, it's possible to hire people, it's possible to raise gross domestic product, it's possible to achieve results, but it's possible only if there's clearly defined cooperation between the public and private sectors, it's possible only if we have clear programmes and clear and precise procedures. And if the government at all levels trusts the entrepreneurs. If we don't think that we have to manage everything, so we don't think that we're the smartest, even though we leave these people who live out of it and who risk their assets, their money, their time, their life after all to realize some kind of project that they believe in, and these people need to be involved in creating these programs and in implementing them and implementing them. We succeeded in Istria because we believed in new, young people and gave them confidence to run these projects and the results are still obvious. At national level, we certainly need one strong decentralisation in all areas, but especially in this area in the development of the economy. As I said before, we need a clear programme, a clear plan, a national development plan, an economic development plan in Croatia, but a plan that will primarily be implemented at local and regional level because only at these levels can the end of people who do so be committed to the entrepreneur, have time for him, come out to meet his needs and find the best opportunities and solutions to help some good project succeed. We need deregulation, we need a reduction in administration, a simplification of the environment as someone wrote nicely in this material for a small economy. According to the IDS, this Law is fine, we are still in line with what the European Union has long discovered and we do not need to rediscover, but I repeat once again we need to put our heads together for the development of the economy, for the development of this Croatia and together make a real development programme that we will all stick to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88986	Thank you. House Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic for the HSLS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88987	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I welcome the Secretary of State and Assistant Minister and your colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS Club will also support this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Small Economy Development Act, but it would really be good if this debate was held in the morning when the public is more and more aware because it is about the law that would be told by whom they live, a law that can really change the standard of citizens and which deserves more information in public than it will get them like this. I can easily support this thesis because if we know that a small economy, crafts and cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies are one of the most important drivers of Croatia's overall economic development, because its entities I remind are 99% of the total number of economic operators or 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy. So, on the immeasurable importance of this economic branch, the importance of adopting positive changes to the existing law may indeed have had to have some better term and what I think is very important would be good if it were common in the adoption of our laws to make an assessment of the effects of the law, in this case the Law on the Economy, where the impact of different definitions on a small economy is measured and I hope that it shows exactly what the effects of the law will be on both small and medium entrepreneurship. We see that it is a sample of 71 thousand 803 companies based on the 2005 FINA reports and that, according to the new definition, only 8 large companies will move into the category of medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, it would be unwarranted to fear that large companies would take incentivising funds to micro and small enterprises. They are in line with the definition and the Law on Accounting and the guidelines of the European Union on statistical data coordination, several different definitions have so far been able to confuse, and knowing us as a very imaginative way may be used for other purposes. I'm not going to repeat here the definition of micro-entities, small subjects and mediums because it seems to me that we have reached an agreement regardless of our political differences. ... We are approaching the European Union guidelines by law, allowing more entrepreneurs to run for incentive measures, providing a framework for the development of incentive measures and projects in accordance with the State Aid Act and the State Aid Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments to the Small Economy Development Act will hopefully simplify the environment for a small economy by using this common definition. Statistical reporting will improve, achieve a better management system of incentives, at least that's what it says, and I want to believe it's something to be realized. I'll draw attention to the added articles compared to the previous reading. This is Article 5 where the obligation is to apply the State aid Act and the State aid Regulation when granting the aid under this Act. Therefore, they are assigned under one law, which will likely reduce confusion and wandering from law to law or even worse arbitrary interpretations. We also support the position we have heard from the Committee on Economy, that is, in Article 8, where the holders of the small economy development programme are expanding, so that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is included among the holders, which has not been the case so far, since it is one of the drivers of small economy development. We mean credit lines. And that one of the members of the Management Board of the Croatian Small Economy Agency should really consider being a representative of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What we think in this law is good, and these are special incentives for education, education, additional education, because Croatia really has no reason to agree to the offered cheap labour that will always be, at least I hope always be cheaper in our neighborhood than more educated, ready for more sophisticated but even better paid jobs. Now. We think this is an opportunity to open up some other topics. Perhaps not in the adoption of this law, it is not the most favourable election year for this kind of debate, because it is likely to eventually bid on the number of employees, with the removals from the records so that the Employment Service looks as well with their numbers can serve as a pre-election campaign which we really keep morally questionable, whoever is doing this, and I am responsiblely saying that unfortunately there is. The fact that almost 120 million kuna was provided for this year in 2007. We have to admit it's a significant asset. But really everything needs to be done to get that money to small entrepreneurs, especially to apply the key to the best development programme, not party or some other key. Either the fact that at the end of the year usually when elections or a year later could be found to be either not well withdrawn or not withdrawn. She would like to draw attention to an inspired colleague who spoke shortly before in areas that were underdeveloped on our existing laws, who may be mentioned in sublaws or areas that were left a little on the conscience of local administration or self-government. And we need to be educated or well-informed by entrepreneurs, which counts as normal. But it needs to be invested in. You should see where it came from by joining the clusters. Speaking of preparations for the European Union, competitiveness is currently being developed by craftsmen, small entrepreneurs often face the problem of not being able to compete on bigger jobs and that foreign companies will take over their jobs very easily. We hope that the HitroRez will also have good results, that it will indeed result in a simplified procedure. And I have to say something about local agencies and local development agencies and local guarantee agencies that really show up as good models that should be encouraged. I know there's a cluster-enhancing model just because local environments are best known to the potential of entrepreneurs. Therefore, we can afford to be able to assess, on the basis of indicators that we see better than what the Zagreb institutions see, who will be able to repay money and who will invest it well, with the hope that, of course, we do not apply the imagination of how money is used in another way. We should also see what we're doing on branding. In fact, it seems to us that when it comes to preparations for the European Union, Croatia has done too little. If, I'd like to know the data of how many processes, how many procedures are in the branding process and what products have been branded so far? Because it seems to me that because of ignorance, we will later have bigger problems that will be very quantifiable in material, literally material damage. And I will also remind you of the question I asked as a representative at the beginning of the mandate, you can check full three times, where I asked who would educate local officials, local mayors, mayors and mayors and their teams to withdraw funds from European funds? I've been told twice that I'm going to get an answer, and the third time I'm going to get a written answer. I got the written answer. However, almost two years have been lost and it is very easy to prove that a large amount of funds remained unused. And since we're talking about economy and entrepreneurship. I think we really need to think about what the Chamber of Commerce is worth today in this form in which we have it today. As much as it fits both time and space. Here, if you look at the examples of a public private partnership, you'll see how much we have to pay for consultants. And I think it's a job that could have been better prepared for, for example. The Chamber of Commerce. It is not directly related to the law but with the promotion of the development of a small economy and entrepreneurship it certainly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88988	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Andrija Hebrang. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88989	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant! There are some small changes in small entrepreneurship ahead of us, but they are further steps in a truly impressive development in this area of the Croatian economy. And the results you've heard about the small economy, I think you should definitely call it a big, little economy, because it's really moving a long way forward and it's going to reach European standards very quickly. A few words about this law that the HDZ Representatives Club fully supports because it believes it will mean new steps in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Except for the definitions the predecessors spoke of, so I wouldn't have to go on about it. One of the things that are here for the greatest commendation is that the encouraging measures and their intention are spread not only for what has been present but also for new areas such as vocational education, retraining and requalification of staff and thus encouraging measures enter into one of the cores of our small economy's problem and this is a lack of qualified personnel. In this way, all our institutions that provide incentives will certainly contribute even faster employment in this branch of the Croatian economy. Harmonisation with European norms is also an incentive but under the control of the Competition Protection Agency, which must now grant approval for these incentives and is certainly one of the important steps in the development of the market economy. I would also like to commend Article 8 which introduces Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development among the holders of small entrepreneurship programmes in the Croatian economy. This bank is very important and it gives great incentives precisely for a small and medium-sized economy and I think that both these loans and incentives it provides would be summed up with total incentive measures and would then get a much larger amount of money invested annually under favourable conditions in the form of favourable loans or in the form of incentives in the small and medium-sized economies. In fact, in 2006 alone, HABOR approved the development of a small and medium-sized enterprise of 623 million kuna. This is an impressive sum with which they financed the construction of new buildings, the purchase of land, the financing of the purchase of machinery but also in agriculture encourages entrepreneurship because they also financed the planting of permanent crops, they credited basic herds, etc. So, I think it is very commendable that HABOR is now entering the list of institutions that encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This is an opportunity to say a few words about the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship over the past three years and because small and medium-sized entrepreneurship has been in the pre-election programme of the current government one of the main guidelines and points of development. Of course, with the rehabilitation of large businesses with investments and the attraction of investment outside, with the conversion or privatisation, the emphasis was placed precisely on small and medium enterprises. Why? Because it was clear that large investment from the outside will not come with such huge steps as we would like, for various subjective reasons, that objective reasons burdening external investment, so that these external investments were indeed moving somewhere below 2 billion, last year for the first time over 2 billion euros a year, which is of course not enough for the development of the Croatian economy and for fast employment. That is why we have placed the focus in the pre-election programme and later in the implementation of this programme precisely on small and medium enterprises because it depends exclusively, almost exclusively and to the greatest extent on ourselves. The results you heard from the predecessors and Madam Secretary of State said that today 99% of the total number of operators in this small economy are employed by 56% of the total number of employees. And I would point out that the business result has been significantly improved over the past three years. In 2003 and 2004, little entrepreneurship had done a negative change, and in 2004 it was positive for plus 300 million kuna. This shows the take-off of this part of the Croatian economy. Or another example, this is the index, the TA index, the famous index of the number of new entrepreneurs per 100 inhabitants who grew from 3.6 to 6.6 between 2004 and 2005, and last year even to 8.6 and thus from 8.6 new entrepreneurs to 100 inhabitants, Croatia jumped between 42 countries from 37 to 18th place. It's a huge step and an indicator that indicates that it's doing well and that we should move on. I would just take this time and say that in small and medium-sized enterprises one of the important links in the chain is to encourage new and complete already started entrepreneurship zones. Entrepreneurial zones are not the inventions of this government, worked and passed by the government, worked by governments since the 1990s. However, thanks to good inter-resorship cooperation, this government has managed to invest significantly more in entrepreneurship zones, introduce regulatory order, and I think it has not only continued well but has accelerated and start processes. We have learned about entrepreneurship zones from a very successful Irish example in the pre-election programme, and we have painted a large part of their experiences, of course, modified according to our terms and conditions, and we have managed to introduce some of our own innovations, such as to encourage more entrepreneurial zones in those regions that are less economically developed, in which employment is weaker and we can really see now that entrepreneurial zones have come to an end in areas of special state concern and in mountainous areas because it was the focus of the economy ministry and of course of all other entities involved. I would only mention that, for example, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County today is 11 entrepreneurial zones. Some have started and some have already completed their investment cycle until the start of operation, even at 220 hectares of surface, in Sibenik-Knin County 160 hectares, in Brod-Posavia 90 hectares, in Lika-Senjska more than 50 hectares of surface area under entrepreneurial zones. So, and it's one of the pictures of a very successful little entrepreneurship project. What should be pointed out is that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has created and all necessary normative because without strict frameworks, the development of entrepreneurship zones can go the wrong way. So it defined exactly what needs to be a business zone of infrastructure, it defined that it had to have resolved property-legal relations, that it had to have a justification study as one of the key documents showing the entrepreneurial potential and interest in that entrepreneurial zone and that location, construction dynamics and funding methods. And what's no less important must be solved property-legal relations. In my opinion, one of the most qualitative decisions of the Croatian Government is that land under state ownership is granted free of charge to the municipality but with a strict purpose of developing the business zone, of course within a certain period and under certain conditions. And this is one of the important contributions that the financial side of investment in small entrepreneurship should also be valorised. What is also worth pointing out is that the development of entrepreneurship zones is not a short-term programme and is not a temporary measure but is constantly increasing in plans for the next state budgets. I would also point out that investments around the county have been more than doubled in the past three years. For example, in 2003, 558 thousand kuna was invested in business zones or annually from the State budget of about a million and 100 thousand, which was significantly increased so that last year alone from the Ministry of Economy was invested 106 million kuna. But that should also be added to the incentives from the Regional Development Fund and the HABOR that I mentioned. And HAMAG that provides guarantees and so on. So a whole series of sources that are pooled with one goal is to allow the entrepreneur to come very simple, very cheap and very fast to start production. It is not to say that there are exactly what the government called cutting bureaucratic or administrative barriers in the entrepreneurship zones. And it has just shown very vividly in this area that a single investment can be accelerated. That's how you fuck it up. I'd just like to mention our project that we brought to the government in 2004 and in which we made a video of the situation. And just one illustration. At that time, 15 different procedures were to be conducted for the opening of a small company in 2004. It was supposed to get an average of 35 documents, but that's not all. It was lucky only one who already had a building permit. If he had to get a construction permit, then he had to add 20 different consents to it. I can say from a personal example that for 6 months there was an investment in a small enterprise where I participated because the fire hose opening was 2 metres away from what was intended and it took 6 months to coordinate the documents, to comply with all the plans and to move that shaft with all the concrete and all those long-term works and to get one of those 20 consents. So these are exactly the kind of barriers that have been a major obstacle to the development of small entrepreneurship are largely removed. And there's more. There's a lot more work to do and, of course, the government in its programs is going towards meeting, this time called guillotines like this on the way of entrepreneurship development. And in 2006, with great satisfaction, the prime minister called the project a "new business" of the Croatian economy. And really, according to the data, you can say that. Croatia had 284 entrepreneurial zones in a largely completed or almost completed state of use with 1260 entrepreneurs. With 18 thousand 320 employees and another 400 entrepreneurs who have their investment under way in these business areas. I must say that there was little understanding at the beginning of the programme and when we said that Croatia would have 400 entrepreneurial zones that it was our goal. There was laughter and even ridicule. We're at 284 today. And I'm sure by the end of the term we'll be very close to the number drawn of 400 entrepreneurial zones. But in conclusion, it should be said of this large small economy that this law, too, means these changes that are ahead of us, are small steps, but for great development. And that is why it is necessary to support this law because it guarantees that the government will not only work to improve so far but also significantly increase current investment funds. What adorns this government in the area of small economy development is that all sectors are extremely harmonised with one another. First of all, I think of the Ministry of Economy as an extraordinary project manager. The Ministry of Finance that follows them, but also all the other sectors they give here from the Department of Construction onward that give their pain here. That's why you're very supportive of this law. Great support for a small economy that will certainly mean a great boost for further employment and further development of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88990	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88991	Says my colleague, I'm correcting my colleague Hebrang's incorrect quote and those two. The first to claim a major economic shift, so here is the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship itself. It's just not true. And without me saying my observations, I am also calling for the final report of the International Monetary Fund, which is today in the daily press and published. That speaks of Croatia having too little economic growth and that is why Croatia will have many major problems in the further period. That's one thing. Second. When he spoke about this project, "Hurry HR" is just saying that it is possible for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to start the company quickly. I don't know if you've really used that term. I must say that this is the least done and that this "Hurry HR" in this sense has given great headaches and that it is simply not exactly what you said but has just given big headaches to workers because it is possible for the owners of companies that have remained in debt to both workers and the state to start a new company. And we had the least problem with the creation of companies that were already "Quick HR" could be established within 15 days. ... How does it not matter? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88992	Correction of the inaccuracy of fellow Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88993	Thank you very much. Well it is incorrect that his colleague Hebrang said it was a new Croatian "new deal" because here they came to 284 zones...... Oh, well, you quoted him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you inherited a colleague of Hebrang 190. So here's to three and a half years of new 90 and something, and by the end of the year, you're going to be 400 by the end of the term. How do you plan to get through this new "new deal" from 284 to 400 if you've moved the number of everything 90 in 3 years? I don't think that's possible. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88994	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88995	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Well, look, I'm gonna start right off with what I'm done with. If it's a new deal, if that's a big novelty in this sector, which in any case is elastic, which is also the results of which I am absolutely sure that these figures are correct and that he can do even more to my question if we're really going to continue with the new deal that we see new for entrepreneurs in this law. So I'd like to ask the promoters, and perhaps you too, colleague Hebrang, here's where I kind of entered the controversy to say what's new, because this isn't the Small Economy Act. The law was created in 2002 as a law on fostering the development of a small economy. This is a big difference because we realized in 2002 that this sector has great potential, that it can especially act on increasing employment, that it has its big opportunities in exports, and also that it can attract and create a large number of investments, and that is how we have created the Small Economy Development Programme, which has operational measures, and we have just brought the bearer of these activities called the Croatian Small Economy Agency. However, instead of giving new measures through these amendments to the law in order for this sector to experience a new momentum, we are doing the opposite. We end what used to be positive, which was good, and here it is after 5 years I'd say good experiences. It is not exactly as it says in the explanation that honey and milk flow in the sector. These people who deal with crafts and small entrepreneurship continue to have a lot of problems, and they will not be happy at all that the amendments to the law will improve statistical reporting towards the European Union or that we will legally standardise micro, medium and small businesses in a slightly different way. No, they don't, be absolutely sure, almost doesn't care at all. They are most interested in the lack of new incentive measures in this law. They are concerned that the role of the agency for a small economy is almost minor and they are concerned that these programmes and projects are encouraged not by the agency, as the law provides, but by the ministry. The intensity of the law was completely different. And what now is when we look around the money from this budget and the money that we can imagine is that streams will flow if we follow the campaign on television screens where entrepreneurs flock, run towards incentives that can enable them to invest more in quality and employ. The incentives for a small economy in this year are heavy 120 million kuna. It is about a mile [one km] of road to Macle or about four kilometers [4 km] of road known in Zadar to Gaženica. So, all entrepreneurs in Croatia over 150 000 of them there are, craftsmen of independent activities and small entrepreneurs will get 1 km of highway. After 5 years of law enforcement, after 5 years of programme implementation we give them 1 km of highway, or 4 km of fast road. What is even worse is I believe that one of the better products of the last government was a lending programme for small entrepreneurs where we thought we were helping regional development, local lending, where we directed budget money towards cities, counties, municipalities and where we thus formed a credit fund. But we've been giving money to the county, the city and the community and there's been an impressive credit fund and I don't think I have the data because there's not a lot of them here for the past seven years and maybe even 10 billion kunas placed in a small economy through this product called a credit line for small ones. However, I don't know why, and I'd like to hear these credit lines today. There are no new agreements with the county, no new agreements with cities and municipalities. But you know what's left. The other commitments remained for the county to pay interest subsidies, as the credit model was a completely new, completely different one where the county had not been involved in the project received budget money but was obliged to subsidise interest. I don't know any data for other counties, but in my Virovitic County, the interest subsidy commitments are higher than 10% of the original income in that county. According to the previous model, the county would receive two to three million kuna each year from the ministry of trade, small and medium entrepreneurship. But now she has to give two and a half million to subsidize interest. That kind of model is enough to say just the information I mentioned. Which is why we canceled those loans. We didn't hear it in the report. We heard, however, in the report from the Croatian Agency for Small Economy that they issued one guarantee every 28 days, that every employee in that agency every 20, issued 20 guarantees a year. Do we have venture capital funds? No, I don't. We didn't start them. Do we mention them here again? Let's talk about them. After seven years, we find that the Small Economy Agency has issued only two hundred guarantees in three years and we haven't established venture capital funds. Whether he started the process of making use of state-owned property for lease or for selling to small businesses as provided for in the 2002 programme. Did you hear that some entrepreneur got that? No, you didn't hear because it didn't happen. What is foreseen by the amendments to the law? The law stipulates that no longer the agency will be allowed to do so, it remains in the government, the government that is three, which is inefficient because obviously here is a few years back, not one unused property, and we all know that there are in Croatia and has not received too many small entrepreneurs. Moreover, we here in the Croatian law, here in the Croatian Parliament, have brought amendments to the law that we have said that we will also sell business space owned by the state to craftsmen under favourable conditions. We brought that in two years ago, but we said the government would pass the regulation on how we'd sell it. However, after two years of this Regulation, there is no such thing. I haven't seen her, so I'd like to hear today why the regulation isn't here. As far as the HItro service is concerned, look at the crafts before it could be established within one day. In 2003, we had in the Trade Register, which was electronic over 100,000 craftsmen. The company needed something more. And I agree with the fact that it takes less paperwork to start a company and that it goes a little faster through FINA. But we opened the door for those who didn't want to be honest entrepreneurs, people who took one company into bankruptcy, the other company took into bankruptcy, destroyed 5.6 craftsmen equally within one day can start a new company. And that is the trend that is happening in Croatia. We allow quasi-entrepreneurs to come to their incomes through abuses, and in principle, those who have come to capital with severe torment remain unexistent in the future. This enabled the HITRO service because it is not an obstacle for the entrepreneur who has cheated, who took the company into bankruptcy to start a new company. In our law, previously, that wasn't possible. That's why today we have 12 billion kunas of blockades recorded on the FINA, we have several thousand craftsmen who are in blockades, we have several thousand companies, and we have a few months, but 20 thousand people who work in these companies of course have no wages, let alone development. I didn't hear it in the explanation of whether a new incubator was founded in the last three years. I didn't hear in the explanation whether we founded a new entrepreneurship centre in a county or a city, because it was just a model so the entrepreneur could have a communication with the state, that it locally communicates. There is no meaning of the Agency's active role in the small economy. There's no entrepreneurship center. So what do we do? To hire Calmet's driver to mediate between the state and the entrepreneurs? It would probably be the best model if we didn't want to hire institutions to do it that way. There's nothing affirmative about entrepreneurs in this law. There's nothing at all. We only provided support for professional education and retraining of entrepreneurs, although we put that into law even though it was in the previous programme. But we've been erasing employment support. However, this law would deal with support for employment in small businesses because it does not matter. The fact that they opened up five years ago I'm absolutely sure over 100,000 new jobs no matter what, we don't have to support them, let's delete it from the law even if it was left for a possibility. But it's better if they don't remember getting something. Of course, I can't even get state-owned facilities. It won't give them the Agency for a small economy. It was imagined that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would assess which facilities were not significant and needed by the Government and that they would be registered in a tendering agency and would give or sell to the entrepreneur. But here it is, we're erasing as a new possibility, as a new step, and we're going back one step. The programme's implementation operators have so far been exclusively associations of small economies and entrepreneurship. But it's unclear to me why we in these amendments to the law put it to be the associations of the businessmen. Why should it be said that the operator of the programme is not an association of small economies but that they are associations of businessmen? I believe that this way we open the door for the big ones, change the terminology, delete the word "small" which I'm quite sure is unnecessary and I'm pushing for it to stay as it has been so far. When we look at changes in the management board of the Croatian Small Economy Agency, it is good that there is HBOR. Okay, good thing he's here. I agree with the fact that he has implemented some projects well for a small economy, but I don't agree that a bunch of ministers, 5.6 ministers, sits in it again, because this board of directors is inoperable, he met twice a year, he doesn't implement the measures and it's time to open up that Agency for Associations, Associations and Entrepreneurs because they will know best what to do next. Which is why we do not want the Agency to have state property and to make it available to the entrepreneur is explained on page 5 of this Bill proposal and is said to explain the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. Well, if it wasn't, if it wasn't tragic, it'd probably be funny. We explain that the government has the property. Well, we all know that. But the intensity of the law and the programme was that this property was decided by the Government to make available to the Agency that would then give to entrepreneurs. We knew that, of course, until now. In other words, by amending this law, we must conclude that there is nothing new in the West. The HSS would be the happiest if this law went into third reading because we think it's a pretty big step backwards. Because the old law and program in the past two, three years has not been brought to life. I don't mean to say that nothing was done, but it's absolutely certain that he didn't live to the end. But the worst is that we abolish the measures and abolish the Croatian Agency's powers for a small economy. I'd be happier if I'd seen new measures. I'd be happier if in this law I'd seen new benefits for small entrepreneurs, but I don't see them. If anyone sees them, try to deny me what these new measures are and what the entrepreneur will get more. If you think that 4 kilometers of fast road worth that 120 million kuna is enough for an entrepreneur, then I'm sure you're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88996	Thank you. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First, dear fellow Hebrang. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88997	Thank you very much. I will correct only three false allegations from fellow Pecek who gave a few good ideas but by politicizing this problem he obviously went into incorrect allegations. He said it says here in this document that's in front of us about how honey and milk flow in small entrepreneurship. That's not true. That doesn't say. It just says that in 2003, a small enterprise had a negative business, and last year it had a plus 300 million profit. So it's not honey and milk it's just a significant improvement. He said the role of HAMAG was minor. That's not true. Because this year alone, HAMAG has 5 large projects, a project of agriculture, a project of encouraging areas of special state care, a project of growth and development, a project called "new entrepreneurs", a project of craft capital etc. So, I'm pretty sure... He's doing his job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I deny his statement to hire Calmet's driver. I think it would be better to hire Mrs. Anticevic's wife.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88998	Correction of an incorrect quote, a colleague of Bagarić has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u88999	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The esteemed representative, Pecek, said an incorrect quote here that I am correcting, and his alleged was that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the competent ministries did not subsidise the interest of individual business loans, here I have the exact table of Požeko-Slavon County in 2005 according to programmes from the social services of defenders, entrepreneurship of women, entrepreneurship of young people and programs only the Ministry of Economy co-financed or gave in interest subsidies of 846 thousand kuna, and the Ministry of the Family 775 thousand kuna. So just one little example, and from this brochure that we got here on the benches in the hallway you can also see what's subsidized through here's the budget calculation for the previous year just by corporate loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89000	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89001	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, me and my colleague Pecek obviously had the same source when we were talking about the IMF, only a colleague made it completely incorrect that the IMF was talking about stagnation of the economy and the like. So that's not true. The IMF is an interesting organization and they would love it very much if we had a budget deficit not 6% as it was for your time, but 15% because then they would really rule Croatia, so unfortunately they were offended. I was at the last meeting here at the Parliament for a divorce they were extremely sad I have to admit so I can understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89002	Okay, you can understand them, but you can correct the incorrect allegations, but you've commented. My colleague Majdenic has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89003	Representative Pacek said that... a role for the development of a small economy which is not true. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] It's not true because Hamag provides extremely high guarantees for business loans and up to 80% of projects. This is extremely important for those entrepreneurs in less developed areas, and that's what we've been looking for and we've been looking for, and the government has done it, so the guarantees are up to 80% because in these less developed areas the price of real estate is as a guarantee of low. What happened? It has now happened that entrepreneurs can achieve a higher amount of credit and therefore this role of the Hamaga is extremely large and important. So, in any case, it's not minor, but I'm going to remember the 'Hamag' we had a 2003 report on that 'Hamag' at all, then it had a minor role, and why? Because you put in projects conditions that didn't fit the banks or entrepreneurs and there were no guarantees at all at the time for these loans and then it was a minor role, and "Hamag" now plays an extremely important and important role.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89004	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed colleague Vukic has.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89005	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm correcting my colleague Pecek's quote. He said this government didn't open a single incubator, not a single business zone that wasn't exactly true. Mr. Pecek, your government has opened 25 zones in a term of three and a half years, and this government has opened 145 zones in this term, and it cannot tell you exactly what number it is, and certainly more than your government. It is also not true that your claim is not to lend entrepreneurs through the county and the ministry of the unit of local self-government, I do not know where you live, perhaps not in your county, but in the county where I live entrepreneurs have loans both through the county and through the local self-government unit with the support of the ministry and business banks, as well as the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with credit participation and interest subsidy. And I'm yours, and I took your debate as a debate in the report on the work of the economy in the small crafts sector and as something personal, rather than as a debate on the amendment of the Small Economy Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89006	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pacek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, and I'd like to respond to Mr. Hebrang's corrections and his wolves and wolves who apparently got a warrant to do so. Look, Mr. Vukic, as many zones as you have a report in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you know, you have a report on how many loans are distributed, and there is also a report in the Government of the Republic of Croatia as many entrepreneurship centres are established, it certainly exists. But also here we have the secretary of state and the assistants so let them deny me, so let them say how many new centres were founded, how many new incubators we have, so it's very simple and let them say how many zones were at the end of 2003. This is where people live, and of course they can deny me, but don't deny me here that you're obviously not meant to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89008	So this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's even less about Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, as Article 209. The Rules of Procedure state that the MP has the right to claim a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it is obviously nothing, and I am asking you, colleague Pecek, that you do not do this because you abuse the Rules of Procedure and instead. When you have the opportunity to lead the replica, keep up with the replica and replicate each other, but don’t try to replicate it under the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it’s not correct. A colleague of Hebrang has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues are now going to stop the debate. We'll be back at 9:30 tomorrow. The first will be in the debate of counterpart Kapraljevic on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, and then we move on to an individual debate. After this point comes the point of the law, the proposal, the final proposal of the Arms Act and the agenda as far as we arrive tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89009	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89010	Your Honor, Mr. President, on April 20th, I asked a question from the State Department of Agriculture. I didn't get an answer until today. I remind you that I sent the same ministry a written question last year in September. I waited until January, so a few months. I am afraid that this situation could happen again and now, so I ask you to answer me in accordance with Rule 187 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I did not get the answer within 30 days, as the Rules of Procedure did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89011	The answer will be given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone, the club's losing its word. An individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89012	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The small economy is one of the most important drivers of overall economic development. It promotes private ownership and entrepreneurial capacity, is adaptable to market changes, generates employment and contributes significantly to increasing production and exports. Small-scale operators account for 99% of the total number of economic operators. At the same time, they employ 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy. In 2005, medium-sized economic operators increased the consolidated financial result by 2.5 times and it amounted to... billions of kuna and small economic operators achieved a positive increase of more than 300% from a negatively consolidated financial result in 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The index establishing the level of entrepreneurial activity for Croatia in 2002 was 3.6 while the index for Croatia was 8.58 in 2006. In this respect, it is particularly important that the 2002 index in regions such as Slavonia and Baranja, Lika and Banovina increased by 2.11 and 2.71 respectively in 2002 to 8.84 and 8.69 respectively in 2006, which indicates that systematic and continuous measures yield results but also gives real shifts in the development of entrepreneurs... continuous and continuous stimulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is evident that the aim of this law is to improve transparency and accessibility of incentives measures for a small economy, while raising the level of compliance of measures to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency... the guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given the large number of support programmes to the small economy implemented under the Small Economy Encouragement Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A harmonised and detailed definition aims to ensure greater legal certainty and to respect economic reality which will lead to simplification and acceleration of administrative procedures in cases where division into micro, small and medium-sized economic operators is necessary. The Act amending and supplementing the Small Economy Encouragement Act shall be governed by the following. The definition of small economy, the criteria for the distinction of micro, small, medium-sized operators in the small economy, the incentive measures for vocational education, retraining and the qualification of workers, are prescribed to apply State aid rules when granting support, exclude active and preventive employment measures which are subject to specific rules and programmes. The availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia is clarified, the number of holders of the small economy development programme is increased, legal terminology is harmonised with the Law on Construction and the part-rounding of the central authorities of the state administration. The consequences of the amendments to this law are the following, simplifying the environment for a small economy, using a common definition in accordance with the Accounting Act, improving statistical reporting by avoiding multiple statistical definitions such as the FINA or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and then using the data that are more relevant to them, approaching the recommendations of the European Union which will... eligible conditions for European Union programmes intended for a small economy, setting up a better management system for small economy incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I certainly support the adoption of this law, that it will further improve the economic situation in Croatia which is getting better every day and that it is seen that the work of the Ministry of Economy is mainly in this small economy. And here I will take the right to really commend the work of the Ministry of Economy but also to give maybe a little criticism I think the Ministry of Economy is doing really well, that it has good results but that you talk about them a little bit and that the public should know more about your results. As well as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs about all those measures and incentives that are at their disposal and have been going well lately on the ground, on economic chambers, on trade associations and with these amendments and additions to this law, the results will certainly be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89013	Thank you. Replicated representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89014	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Wolfie, in principle, I agree with everything you've said. The only thing I cannot recognize from your exposure is what is new affirmative through the amendments to this law, which is happening, whether there is any new measure and whether it will bring so much radically closer to our legislation with what is in the European Union to entrepreneurs. I think the law so far is in line. If we're only going to improve the statistical reporting that you're stressing, then we haven't achieved this goal. I remind you, the law is called about the development of a small economy, not the legal environment of a small economy. We have changed the criteria regarding the number of employees, the underlying capital of income. However, I do not see the measures you are talking about here, even though I believe that the current application of the law and through the activities of the current ministry has yielded results. If we want to continue the trend to hire 50 thousand people in the next period, as far as possible, then this law must be more affirmative, then we need to find new measures in it, not to abolish measures that have proved to be good back two, three years. That's exactly what's happening to us through this law, to narrow down the space for small entrepreneurs. And that's why I don't see what your optimism is that we'll continue with trends if we narrow down space for new entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89015	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89016	Well, Mr. Pecek, the aim of this law is just one small step forward in order to improve the economic situation in Croatia. And I'm glad you agree with me that the economic situation is better and that so far the law is good. I did not say that the law so far is not good, but the aim of this law is one step forward in harmonising Croatian legislation with EU legislation and what you said in order to improve statistics. And I said in my statement that politics, I didn't say what policy, I'll say one and the other, I'll always use the data that suits them, whether the data of the FINA or the data of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the data of the craft chambers on the ground. I think that the data that we get, any policy, from either the Ministry or the Croatian Chamber or the Association of crafts must be data by one equation, that they must be true and that the public must be familiar with all that data. I know that those data now that they're not responding to you, but what is it, that's it. As a Croatian citizen, as a Croatian, I am pleased with any economic progress in Croatia, whether it is in the power of the SDP, SDSS or HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89017	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89018	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since the media is making it very simple to report from the Parliament in style by ruling praise, opposition attacks, since I belong to this first group normally that I will then praise it. So here's a few words just because we've heard enough about it today. So why the law? The law should normally be so, and a new classification should be made for incentive measures. And I think it's well done by this law. We've also talked on boards a little bit about numbers. I think the numbers are totally fine, too. In fact, the situation has changed more significantly. Those numbers have grown. The companies have grown. I come from a place where really craftsmanship is a little entrepreneurship and very much on the take-off. If we're talking about working areas, we mentioned the number of work zones yesterday. I have to say that only in the record is one of our working areas in St. Sunday, so we have four more working areas besides that, so the number of working zones is certainly far higher than the statistical area here is, which we will try to correct, clearly. In fact, I have to say that here, a small economy certainly recovers significantly if we are just looking at a profit tax that is nevertheless an indicator of the take-off of the economy. That profit tax almost 30% is growing annually, and it's certainly a good indicator and well-charged funds. Which means the little economy is working well. So finally the consolidated net profit of the Croatian economy in 2006 without the financial sector amounted to around 20.5 billion kuna, which is important, a percentage of 17% more than last year or most in the last 6 years. A small economy often depends on industry. We talk all the time about what's going on with the industry. After the collapse of the socialist industry, which in the late '80s has really come to the bottom according to writing even at the time of controlled media, so the industry is recovering. Here, compared to April 2006, it increased by 7.5%. And the processing industry that we're almost not talking about, I guess because of the good results has increased by 9.7%, which is certainly very much. And the total revenues of Croatian entrepreneurs were 15.8% higher than in 2005. So the losses were clearly incurred in here, a few hotels, some catering facilities, something in agriculture, and that's all very small if we look at numbers in relation to the economy. There's something else I need to mention. Namely, here's my colleague, Pacek, mentioned how today they pay off the county interest, those privileged interest from that unfortunate deal that we're all going to borrow together a small economy. So I have to say, here's the town of St. Sunday and County and the municipalities of another day-to-day pay and there's a lot of interest instead of dealing with what the economy needs. But that's building municipal infrastructure. Because without good municipal infrastructure, there's no strong economy. Namely, they all come and go when they see that there's nothing left and it was supposed to be a primary activity and not actually involve us in the loans. Perhaps the only thing positive about it was that interest rates were at that time extremely high. Today there's no need to borrow that way anymore. There is no reason for small business loans to go across cities, municipalities, county and ministries because actually interest rates are acceptable with clearly one strong HAMAG who has done quite enough, as they have asked for it, it was mainly done. But clearly, Hamag can't guarantee something that's practically failed. Keep going. A small economy is also extremely important. A small economy is extremely important in employment. I've had a chance to track down the last ten years where they could say craftsmen or we can call them micro-economics, whatever we want, micro entrepreneurs, where they've become both medium and large. And that's what's good about it. The people they hired, three, four people, today they hire 40, 50 and two hundred people. Clearly and with the support of the local community, which is very important. Clearly, the local community can't affect everything, but it can affect the price of construction permits, it can affect the supply of municipal infrastructure. So it can create a good environment for investment. And I think that's the most important thing. I believe that here, and these measures will help many to reach the necessary means. It is also good that in lending which is also giving aid, which is still highly highlighted today in the Ministry of Economy, it is also given for not only investment, but also for a number of other things. Finally, the company needs to survive. I need to help a company that works well, but it doesn't have any craftsmanship and anything else, so I'm quite optimistic about the small economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89019	Replicated representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89020	Thank you very much. You mentioned what I was saying yesterday about loans. Well, I just don't understand how you don't understand it. Because you yourself were a participant as chief of the Holy Sunday projects that were conducted in the lending areas. The previous model of credit line formation predicted that the competent ministry would place money, one million to two kunas in the county area to create a deposit and would therefore place banks in a position towards small entrepreneurs. So there was no obligation to finance interest. A new credit model after 2003, that's exactly what happened. In order for the county or city to participate in the credit line, it had to subsidise interest. This led to the fact that on average every year, the county must allocate two, three million kunas for interest, instead of receiving a decentralised 2 to 3 million kuna from the competent ministry. In other words, it means that the interest subsidy ministry is also required to allocate about 50 million kuna each year. See, that's exactly why those credit lines were cut. You're not saying that these credit lines are gone today. Why? Because 50 million interest from the ministry no longer wants to be paid for credit lines for small entrepreneurs. Or maybe there's another reason? But those credit lines you're talking about are gone. No new contracts have been signed this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89021	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89022	Well, I'm sorry Mr. Pecek didn't realize what I was saying, and that's that there are other times now. At the time of expensive loans, it was certainly the desire of the economy to come up with some cheaper loans. And that's where we all planted our backs. People come and ask. How do these give and you don't give? And then normally that we were almost forced not to say blackmailed that we had to, too... I'm not sorry we helped and helped, I can't say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today would be with the existing terms that banks give, today would be ridiculous. That money that needs to be allocated to infrastructure is given to a small economy. Because they can handle the guarantee of the great HAMAG in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89023	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89024	Mr. President, State Secretary, Secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, you know, I believe that this amendment and the addition of the law is completely excessive and unnecessary and that the time has come for me to prepare a new law on the promotion of the development of a small economy, but together with the laws on investment incentives and investment investments, on the industrial development of the Republic of Croatia and in fact the integration of a small and large economy, under the quote and little and large. There is no possibility other than to increase organisational forms of development if the small business in cooperative relations does not connect with large industrial entities that must be the bearers of the development of the Republic of Croatia. We must finally understand that such a degree of deindustrialisation of the country has been carried out and that not only the stimulating measures are necessary to open the development of industrial entities but also... and by direct means... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] invest in large entities and not just small ones so they can actually develop together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this reason, I consider firstly, as the first reason that it would be necessary to actually prepare a project and bring new laws that would cover the entire economic area and industrialisation of the country, and then, within it, of course, a small economy. The second reason why I find the law unnecessary at this point is, you know, it is not right to write it ourselves that we do not have to comply with our legislation with the recommendations of the European Union and yet we do comply with the recommendations. Well, I know what it says, but I also know what it says in the article that you agreed to. I'll show you later. Thirdly, the goals you have set to achieve with this law, in fact, these amendments and additions, we do not evaluate, we do not realize. Among other things, it says. So let's say the political environment will simplify for a small economy with these changes. ... change the political environment by reducing, I don't know or increasing income by which they have to report that they may or may not be in a small economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I count the workers and so on. Deleting among other legal provisions relating to specific laws and, in relation to the state, to the management and management of state property or regulations which are now under the law,... No political environment, but we need to know what the political environment in which our small economy operates is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or further, using, using a common definition in the programmes, improve statistical reporting in Croatia, avoiding multiple statistical definitions. Then to aim, to ensure greater legal certainty. So then you have the adoption of this law achieves simplification now no more of a political environment, now there is only a simplification of the environment for a small economy and so on and so on. You see, when you look at it from that point of view, all of a sudden you have to start, read the first explanation of the specific provisions of the laws that you offer in this final proposal for amendments and additions. In Article 1, you yourself say that by actually simplifying this provision, you will ensure the maximum criterion of annual traffic and total assets, i.e. long-term assets, is now an addition: which is otherwise regulated by the Accounting Act. So what happens now, if it isn't prescribed, the Accounting Act won't apply. Or if this will be slightly different from what the Law on crafts or small economies has been so far, it will not apply. Then you say in Article 2 that these articles are provided, I quote: it is prescribed in accordance with the Accounting Act. And now look at what you don't have to coordinate with. And recommendations from the European Union, recommendations from the Commission 2003/361... In 2003, you are in line with the recommendations of the law that you accept a service relationship with the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please nice, I know what I'm saying. I know what those recommendations are and I know who they commit and who they don't commit. And in that way, you specifically wrote it. I was quoting you what you wrote. But what's most interesting? That's what you're harmonising everything for and between, and we in the Accounting Act already have it prescribed. So we're not... Our own laws, we must have, among other things, proof that this is in line with those recommendations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the question is why is it all so necessary? For a very simple and pragmatic reason because it is actually an international project funded by the European Union for the determination of entrepreneurial activity and it is an international research project that should actually be paid in part by Croatia from its own resources because it is included in this project and to prove that the project has been a very successful one of the results of this project is the amendment and addition of the law to Croats. Dear colleagues, how long will we behave like this? As long as we behave, it's okay. I don't mean him. He's got a right to behave, he's a representative of whatever he wants. How long are we going to act like a legislative body? Well, we don't need that. We need a law that will be a means and an incentive to develop a small economy. We need a law that will connect a small and large economy in order to create new jobs, adopt new productions and new products that will expand the actual opportunities of Croatia to go to the economic markets in the environment of the European Union and beyond, and not because we would actually allow others to justify an international project because you wrote this yourself, among other things, by explaining the law, providing information that needs to affirm a small economy in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of data from the international project. So then we have a very high score, for example, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, Lici and Banovina, where from the 2.11 index, it rose even in 2006 to 8.69%, only that you did not tell us one very important fact that local self-government units still have municipalities and cities in which 30% of people are not employed and there if one or two such entities are opened then it is a terrible increase. Now you see respected colleagues and colleagues in this way having difficulty talking about the development strategy that needs to be addressed by this country, which needs to open up further economic progress, which should open further non-employment and resolution of essential entities. This is how you read the ingredients that were made for Slavonia, Baranja, Lika and Banovina, and then we have almost nothing more to do for God. That's terrible! You know when you increase the index four times in three years. Well, I think it's awesome and horrible! All you need to do is come to Slavonia and Baranja, in Lika and Banovina to explain to people who have fewer salaries, who have no jobs, who have no opportunity to work, etc. etc. and who do not have the resources enough to get the incentives to open up the plants and to just work through a small economy, regardless of whether we are going to talk about a micro or small economy, and then change the whole law to specify whether it will be a small or micro economy. I think that, for all of these reasons, this part should not be solved as well as should not, because of the relationship with the negotiations on the European Union, in particular, stress that this law, too, will be subject to the aid law in this respect. The aid law must apply. He is legal and legitimate and does not need to write in law that a special law will be applied in support of support. I think that such things must definitely be cleared up and that this Assembly must openly tell you in the executive power: when you negotiate with others, give protection to the legal system, protect the legal order of this country. Finally, this legal order also expresses in some way the sovereignty of this country and you make sure that it has, however, to protect this country's dignity in these relations and not only to automatically jump and address at any moment issues that have nothing to do with the need to align with the acquis of the European Union, but rather to justify, in fact, projects that certain people earn additional money in that part. Because you write it yourself and it is true, it is not necessary to comply with the European Union's recommendations. But since it is an international project, then we are changing the provision in order to comply with the European Union's recommendations that you have written yourself and to give an argument that this project has been successfully completed which has actually enabled even such high results that a sovereign, independent country has had to change its law regarding the findings of the project. Great! Excellent! Thank you very much. That's why I personally won't support this law, I won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89025	Dear Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89026	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear State Secretary, Mrs. Kesic Sapic, Mr. Assistant, Mr. Bracic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I would also like to say a few words on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Encouragement in the development of a small economy. I think that praise is worth every effort and everything that seems to be in this normative vision to further improve the development of a small economy and I welcome it anyway. In discussions, colleagues said much about the importance of the small economy, its importance for employment. A small economy records a steady growth in employment, which is not the case in other larger systems. Of course, this is also the latest reports in the economic movements in the Republic of Croatia about all the positive developments in the Croatian economy, and also in the small economy, profits are higher and I think we should point out here and commend the Ministry of Economy and Labour and Entrepreneurship that they have done a great deal. First of all, I think they stopped certain negative trends because we are aware that Croatia has lost a lot of production jobs. Croatia has been deindustrialized and these negative trends have been halted. Not only do we have an increasing number of small businesses, crafts, that means in a small economy we are turning to more and more production activities and, of course, they are significant, it's done a lot in the construction and equipment of economic zones, it seems a lot to create clusters as well as exports. So, according to the latest economic reports, we have significant positive shifts in exports, which has been a major pain in the Croatian economy as a whole and so on in a small economy. I could repeat all these details, but I don't think that makes any sense, because my colleagues said it quite extensively. So, they also exposed the numbers and significance of the small economy but I would also draw attention to this place that a small economy, in order to develop it and become even more powerful and have a greater impact in the overall economy of Croatia, is necessary for the whole new economic policy programmes in the form of a new re-industry in which, of course, a small economy would have a significant impact. We are aware that in the Croatian economy, businesses, public enterprises and state-owned enterprises are also a large part. And these companies often have monopoly relations. And I think it's the duty of all of us, and I think there are chambers of commerce, craft chambers and the ministry to make small businesses, to ensure equality on the market for small entrepreneurs, which I think is extremely important. Because when, we're going to mention public works now. All major public utility works would be very interesting and very informative if we had data that subjects often get jobs again and again, and subcontractors are often small entrepreneurs who can say in a purely single important relationship with these project holders. And that relationship certainly isn't good for us. And we have to do everything to enable these smaller entrepreneurs to participate, that is, to get these jobs. Because it is generally known that these big business holders are late for payments to their subcontractors, their small entrepreneurs, which brings small entrepreneurs into an extremely unequal position towards these large ones. And these big ones use these funds and that battery to keep spreading, to buy new businesses and so on. It is also necessary to draw attention here to the need and appropriate control measures in terms of inspections, because if the State, in this case, the ministry provides certain incentive funds and loans to control and control their purpose, there is no abuse. And one of the ways and the institutes and abuses, for example, of stimulating businesses in areas of special public concern. As an institute, I welcome it. But we often have a case of these companies registering or in areas of special state interest, but their activity is not in those places, in these locations, in this area of special state concern what we should be interested in hiring people and resuscitating the economy as a whole, they achieve profits in the area of the rest of Croatia, which brings them to an extremely, extremely favourable situation, a situation in relation to other entrepreneurs. Because they're making far greater profits and it's not just a question of what they're making bigger profits, but it's simply where unfair competition is created. It should also be mentioned here the position of small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, servicers and so on in large cities. I think that in cities in general that work and operate in the centers of cities, crafts and entrepreneurship in cities they give character and mark the character of many of our cities. But we are aware of a new phenomenon that is quite uncontrollable and I think that there is something that needs to be done because small entrepreneurs, relative to large, powerful, large capital, to large trade chains that are often foreign, are being brought into an unequal position. Here, for example, in every major city, so we can also notice here in Zagreb at the entrance to the city on one side and on the other are located more or less all large trade chains. Okay, we don't mind that, we all do, and we all support investment, even in that way. Although I do have my say that it should be a little bit more controlled. And what's going on? What happens is that at what speed, it's amazing, builds whole infrastructure, expands bridges, extends roads, whole new infrastructures, new rotors, and they have huge parking lots. And the parking policy in many cities is just restrictive, it's not in function or traffic, it's not in function or economy in the city. I get the feeling that often times it goes in the direction that it just fits those big foreign trade chains. And I think about that, we should imagine doing something about it. There's also a provision, a legal provision, it's a monumental rent. And it is necessary to constantly examine how this Law on Monumental Rent should be applied. This Monumental Rent Act also affects those small craftsmen, those small businesses that operate in the city center, because the monumental rent is often very limited to the narrow part of the city, while these large centres that are out of town, which are on the busiest roads for which we built all possible infrastructure in record time, so we can, not only in Zagreb, it is also in Rijeka. You see this new approach to this Tower, this new business tower at its speed and how fast it was all made. And these entrepreneurs who work in the old city core have far, far more difficult consequences, and these are our people, our local people who give character and seal to these cities. And not only that, but it's also family businesses, family trades, because I think those moments should be taken special care of. In other words, I support every law, everything that is in the function of promotion and small entrepreneurship. But I am appealing at this moment not only to need encouraging measures and full projects for the development and re-industry of Croatia. It is necessary to take special care and to be sensitive to the equality of small ones in relation to large ones. Here, my time is up. I'm thanking you. There's something else you can say about this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89027	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89028	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also briefly refer to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development because it is a segment that is certainly one of the most important and important for the overall development of society. And all of those indicators that are numerous here, colleagues who have already spoken out, were therefore additional and numerically showing it. The adoption of this Act aims to simplify the environment for a small economy by using common definitions, to improve statistical reporting by avoiding multiple statistical definitions, but also to bring those definitions closer to the recommendations of the European Union. As the recommendations of the European Union are not mandatory for neither economic operators nor for the administration of Member States in this Act, appropriate provisions of the Accounting Act have been applied when determining the size of economic operators, but the guidelines of the European Union as regards the more precise definition of micro-entities here are also applied. So in Articles 1 and 2 we now have some definitions and new figures which, although some have made observations and objected to, it seems to me that they clearly and unequivocally define what a micro-entity is, which is a small entity of small entrepreneurship. I would also like, with a few words, to further give meaning, that is, to the weight of the small entrepreneurship that we all swear to and which, we also hold to be the foundation, is one of the foundations of the development of our entire society. It includes trades, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies and other private business activities. Small economy entities therefore account for 99% of the total number of economic operators and employ 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy. It is a employment generator, and 37% of domestic investment is in the small economy. It is even more important that the small economy in all these and past years therefore and periods record positive financial results and employment growth. According to FINA data covering only legal persons in 2005, 70, nearly 71,000 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with nearly 500 000 employees made 200 billion kuna of total income. And what also happens when defining small entrepreneurship might somehow be done in the second plan is a craft that also records strong growth that is quite tough, perhaps even the most tough part of this segment that is best and easiest, the fastest adaptable conditions on the market, is also being noted, and therefore it should also be stressed that there were around 260 people in crafts and craftsmen. So these are numbers that have been repeated several times, but I hold that they are not burned many times, because only then do they somehow come to ears and show this importance again, that the weight of small entrepreneurship crafts for the total Croatian economy, therefore, and therefore any law that clearly defines this area, which improves, which gives additional quality to the legislative framework within which the economy and a little entrepreneurship should be supported, so of course I will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89029	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89030	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Of course, such a bill that wants to create the impression that the state really wants to boost the development of a small economy is causing the interest and interest of the public, citizens who are precisely their prosperity and ultimately the survival of their own and their own families now see through investment, i.e. through a small economy. However, here is this debate in which conditions and the environment take place. Unfortunately for Croatian citizens, there is little good news. The growing external and internal debt wakes inflation, wages unfortunately do not follow the cost of life, more and more workers, it is one big problem doing, and does not get any pay at all, almost now not 80, but here's the latest data from the quarter this year talking about about about about 90% of new employees being employed at a certain working time, thus making it impossible for workers to achieve in full, in their full work rights because they are valued by firing, pensions are actually reduced. So what is the solution and how to fix this current picture? At this rate of growth, that's not possible. The economic growth strategy of at least 7% per year can guarantee that the situation changes according to all of this. I will just point out that in the last term we have had economic growth so that Croatia has achieved such growth that it has been among the leading in Europe, today we are at the beginning of a transition Europe. It's something that worries, and more than that, a bill like this should give hope that changes are possible. But is that really what it is? We really don't see any concrete things here that could change, especially the relationship of small and medium-sized enterprises and economies with regard to multinational companies, what the colleague was talking about as soon as he and what discussion he fully agreed with. Namely, why do I feel that the development of a small economy and the medium economy for Croatia is particularly important? He is not only an important economic issue, he is also an important political issue. Why? Because the power of multinational companies everywhere in the world, in Europe, so it shows in our area that it has grown to be practically such corporations, such companies have absorbed in themselves so much power that it is simply power without responsibility, and the price and power is the faceless exploitation of natural resources, cheap labour, environmental destruction and living space of the local population. Such multinational companies limit not only workers' rights, but human rights as a whole. Here you can see the expert on the international political economy of Blekenburg and dance. They argued that the rule of multinational companies is a new totalitarianism and therefore it is important to say both the political and economic issues of development of this very small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized economy. And so these experts in the Blackenburg and Dance economy claim that these multinational companies today have put beyond the laws of more human rights than was the case with the central committees of all communist countries. And it's more like despotic... Excuse me, please. You want me to... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89031	Go on. Peace. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89032	Let me quote experts on the political economy of Blackenburg and Ples, literally what they claim. Repeat. Multinational companies have put even more out of the law, therefore, human rights, even more than was the case with the central committees of all communist parties. It is similar with despotic dictatorships or tribal leaders in primitive society. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89033	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89034	So what is the power but also the irresponsibility of these multinational companies. Well, we're all witnesses to what they're doing. They destroy the environment, they don't recognize our laws, they don't pay our workers. We also had a victim, the victims of the environment a few months ago, of our citizen Martinovic, who paid with his head the facelessness of such multinational companies. So let's go back to this topic that I think is very important and I repeat both economically and politically. It is therefore an important and important role of the state in this segment. I will specify the measures of the coalition employment authority right in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that have been in place. They were applied from 1.3.2002 to 30.9.2005. The measures employ 80,000 731 people. These measures are in force until the end of September 2005, but they have changed over time for the last year and a half. In what way? In such a way that the state simply, the law existed but the state no longer paid. New employment, there were numerous lawsuits, but that's another problem. After that, these employment measures were abolished without real or without one real, convincing explanation. The truth was that they did not give the expected results. It may be that it was the ambition of this authority to hire more and that's acceptable maybe. However, on this plan to encourage employment, which is essential for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it seems that it is not, but rather, that the state has decided to save the most. So here you see, plan size, I'm only talking about numbers that are unsuspecting, which show the true state of affairs, for last year this size, the order of employment for 2006 so according to government estimates or plans, was three and a half thousand employees. Three and a half thousand employees in one year. And we abolished those measures that they showed in two and a half years that they hired 80,000 371 people. The truth has come into force and new measures. However, employers are not thrilled with it. In fact, employers themselves say that they are not stimulating for small entrepreneurship, that here are measures that limit co-financing to 15% of the gross base in small entrepreneurs, 7.5% of the gross base in medium and 3% of the gross base in large entrepreneurs. So how many people are employed by 2,000 and four hundred, I think, by these measures? A little and not enough. Especially if we consider what we all agree on, here I see that a colleague from HDZ has also debated, this relationship and the uncontestable importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises as potential competition with large-scale capital or multinational companies. Small and medium enterprises i.e. Employers face major and huge problems. Of course, the biggest jobs are still in business with the state. But what's going on? They say, if we get a job and it's a big political issue, how do we get jobs in business with the state? And if they get jobs, the state orders jobs but doesn't pay them. Here, an ecluent example, the Zagreb-Macelj road is open, praiseworthy but here, what happened? The workers who did it physically weren't paid. How did that happen? The state paid, Skrabak hired the Varazdin roads, they didn't get the money so that those end performers, those perpetrators, could get paid. That's one of the big problems. So we here also have to face this huge problem, I would say almost one hostage crisis where those who want to do business...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89035	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89036	By law, because they're disabled in it because of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89037	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations by a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89038	Thank you very much. I would correct at least three incorrect allegations of a respected colleague. The first incorrect quote refers to the number of employment, employees, new employees in 2006 where it mentions a figure of three and a half thousand people, and it can look at the Internet report of the Statistical Institute. In 2006, with the largest number of new employees in Croatian history since 1990. 45 thousand people. Another allegation that the coalition government has encouraged small entrepreneurship is also completely denying the data I present, which is that only 20 new entrepreneurship zones have been opened at the time of the coalition government, that the total number of new entities has been increased in the government by 1.9% and the number of companies by only 0.3%. And in the end, I can't deny her sources of information that put multinational companies outside the law, as she said, more human rights than all the central committees of all the socialist countries. This is incorrect because the Central Committee of the Socialist State of the Soviet Union killed 100 million people, and the Central Committee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia killed 200,000 people only in '45. A year. And those multinationals haven't arrived yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89039	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89040	The breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 because a colleague, a doctor, should know that and he knows that but he's being ignorant. This wasn't my claim... this was, I even quoted it, and twice, so the political economists' claim, so I'm a political economy expert, and I repeat Blackenburg and Dance, that's what they claim. I was just quoting. ... Come on, don't play ball here, we're still in the Croatian Parliament... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89041	Thank you very much. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is not a violation of the rules of procedure, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89042	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if we're going to jump, then we can clearly deny the allegations of large-scale employment during the coalition government and the jump was exactly how they compared the results from January during the HDZ and the summer period during the SDP, which clearly increased the number of seasonal workers and then waved with that data. Secondly, it is certainly an incorrect allegation, regardless of which colleague quoted probably a new ideologist as a communist about multinational companies and central committees, so I am interested in the way human rights of multinational companies have been violated by work or, or, that is, employees and how are the central committees. If we count Stalinov, Mao Ze Tung, Brozov, Chinese, Korean, 100 million people were injured in such a way that they lost their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89043	Dear representative Ruža Lelic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89044	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague said that during the coalition government, she was employed in a small enterprise of 81 thousand 730. So I don't know how this information can be true if, during the coalition government, 33,000 new jobs are employed, so it could be in this only 81 thousand. She's given a series of negative indicators that I find incorrect. Here, only industrial production in the first four months grew by 8.3, construction by 10.5, trade by 7.7, the government deficit was 3%, and when she said entrepreneurship was encouraged and so it was good to notice that external debt increased during that period from 60% to 80% of gross social product, which is why we have big consequences today. It is also incorrect that the government does not encourage entrepreneurship. Here, we have an entire brochure showing a series of incentive measures that I don't have time to quote right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89045	And the next correction by the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89046	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will not quote the Bible because it is said that it is a false sin, to tell a lie without telling a lie in the Croatian Parliament is a sin, but I will not refer to the Bible because it is not good in the Croatian Parliament, so I will say the following. Instead of the promise of 200,000 people, the coalition government has happened in the last three years regarding employment. Instead of 20 economic zones at the time of the coalition government, we now have 278, instead of 200,000 jobs, we now have unpromised but created in reality 81 thousand jobs. And colleagues, as far as communism is concerned, please read your own history, accept what it was like. For the future, God forbid you use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89047	Replica esteemed representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89048	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said among other things that the great work agrees with my debate. Thank you very much. I agree in part with your debate, and I think you'll support me, too, and we'll definitely meet in the same positions when it comes to the law for Sunday to be a day off. I think that in this way we will also make a significant contribution to small businesses, small craftsmen, because they are even much harder to organize on Sundays, and they need for a lot of reasons not to list and open the topic now that they have Sundays. And it's these big malls, that big capital is advocating for its world-class reasons, but also for purely practical reasons, so we can say for profit, that the principle that Sunday is working and, of course, everyone in the cities instead of going to nature and I don't know where to go to those malls. That's one thing. And the other thing, we're demystifying it a little bit, and it's a famous incentive for employment. I think there's something to say, that those measures had partial results and that 80,000 new employees statistics, it's not right for you. It's not simple because there was a lot of abuse in this incentive institute so that a large number of small entrepreneurs had employed you for as long as the incentive measure was going on, then people would get fired and then after a month they would re-apply for these incentive funds and have again allegedly employed a number of people. It would be very instructive when we talk about it that we have exactly how much of it is from this project, the programme remains a full-time employee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89049	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89050	Well, it's true, my colleague, what you've been saying and what you've agreed to and what you've seen. I think he's obvious. Someone will admit it publicly, someone won't, for whatever reason, but it's dangerous in Croatia if we don't put an end to one power without responsibility, that one power of these multinational companies that I'm going to repeat... exploit the natural resources, which use cheap labour, that destroy the environment of our local population where they come from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the question is what you're asking on Sundays. So, me and my SDP club are holding exactly this fundamental question as to how it should be resolved. To pay for the work, that the worker should be paid on Monday by law and then on. But unfortunately, the explosion that we're going to end Saturday to Sunday is escalating. As for small and medium craftsmen, especially small craftsmen so they can't wait to work on Sundays, they don't exploit anyone, they work themselves. So let's leave it to them. But I agree here with this one option of choice that a worker chooses, that such an employer then doubles his pay as usual as it stands today in the law but which they do not adhere to. As far as measures are concerned, these are accurate exact figures, so that the promotion of employment measures from 1.3.2002 to 30.9.2005 was employed by 80,000 371, and that today you see by these measures that were first put forward by the government, or proposed and introduced new measures, and that everything somewhere around 2,000 newly employed under these measures was done. So, there are data on employment under the incentive measures that are unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89051	Second replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89052	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to replicate my colleague Anticevic. Here when you were talking about encouraging small entrepreneurship and it seems to me that none of the problems I see in that incentive are that small family farms that are in the VAT system can get funding from the Employment Service, which is one big problem that I think this small family economy could be one indicator and the possibility of greater employment. And she can't use the funding of the Employment Service today. On the other hand, you are right when you say that one suspension of the measures that was especially for Croatian defenders from 9 months 2005 to one 6 months and now these employment promotion measures are significantly less than they were before. There used to be 70% subsidy for the first year. 50% for the other at all. And now it's about 20 thousand kuna. These measures are dimming, and that's why when we talked about the rights of the defenders we recently mentioned that such measures would lead us to have more and more unemployed defenders. I think it would be a good idea if we kept those measures that were before and that would allow for at least a reduction in that population that we all care about. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89053	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89054	Well, that's what a colleague I've just apostropheeded. So what was it, how much earlier these measures were more encouraging that they amounted to up to 80% of the gross base and that the measures today are limited to co-financing and 15% of the gross base in small entrepreneurs. Only 7 and a half percent of the gross base in medium and 3% of the gross base in large ones, which the employers themselves say is not stimulating. This is one of the big problems you point out for small farmers. It's something that's very important. This is one of the reasons why one Norway does not join the European Union because it wants to protect its own small and its fishermen and farmers. So the state here has one big space that in this very sense affects to strengthen such, such a small economy. But also, in general, small and medium-sized enterprises face one big, big problem. As you get jobs in business with the state because that's one, one I'd say wound cancer. It's the source of corruption. That's what everybody knows, and nobody knows anything. It's also clear, I say and repeat that if they get jobs like that, the state orders jobs, they don't get paid. If they insist on getting paid that they'll never get jobs again, they'll get what? Tax inspection, financial police and so on. Something that's known to a common citizen, one who's not even in this system, so neither small nor medium entrepreneurship, but the thing is so naked that there's a blind person who can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89055	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89056	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would say at the end of these discussions what I said and the other day at the beginning of the debate on CEFTA that economic topics deserve special attention from the Croatian public for a number of reasons. It is about topics that should provide new jobs, social security, economic prosperity, better quality and better life in the Republic of Croatia. And these are extremely important topics. And in this sense, the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament and parliamentary representatives is also particularly important and all these discussions that we have so far clearly shown with how much knowledge, I would say or ignorance we are discussing such important key issues for the Croatian future. Economic topics are not only important for the Republic of Croatia but also for economic topics, but also for medium and small enterprises, special attention is given to both the European Union and the European Commission through their so-called so-called ‘European Commission’. Lisbon strategy. One of the priorities of the Lisbon Strategy in addition to energy independence is related to economic growth, new jobs, global competitiveness and, in all this, the European Union and the European Commission expect, should have new restructured medium-sized and small enterprises able to contribute to European global competitiveness. And from these aspects, we should also look at our debates today. They are, I would say extremely important, and yet I will return to what I mentioned earlier with how much understanding or misunderstanding we are discussing these topics and how many or few useful proposals the Government can get from these discussions. In any case, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy is a good initiative of the Croatian Government to discuss these important issues and to see what the quality of these discussions is and what the potential of these discussions are to obtain more comprehensive, more comprehensive laws on this subject, in order to ensure the long-term restructuring of medium and small entrepreneurship in order to be in the interest of achieving the strategic objectives of this country, which is 7% of the growth of gross national income. It's simple to discuss this, but it takes a lot more to know and understand it much better because besides declarative political commitment, it takes a lot to really do so. Certainly what I want to discuss in particular and I think it deserves our attention is not sufficiently highlighted during these discussions concerns large businesses and medium and small enterprises. Without large economic systems, medium and small entrepreneurship is almost compromised in terms of its survival. And for this reason, I think it will be very useful for some of the future efforts of the Croatian government to pay particular attention to the issue of how large systems in the Republic of Croatia such as INA, HEP, Dalekovod, Podravka, Agrokor ensure the functioning and survival of both medium and small entrepreneurship restructuring. I'm going to point out one example in our immediate environment. Aluminium from Mostar as one of the major economic systems, perhaps the largest and most technologically advanced in these areas with an income of EUR 300 million per year employs over 100 medium and small enterprises. A large number of them from the Republic of Croatia, which employs more than 15 thousand people in various jobs and activities. From energy, shipbuilding, Ploče ports, transport, rail transport, truck transport, maintenance, repair and so on. Therefore, this relationship between medium and small entrepreneurship and large economic systems is something that deserves attention. The European Union, as I said, pays particular attention to this issue, but you will be surprised when I say these issues of gifts and pay great attention to NATO as well. Why NATO? At the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, one of the most serious economic problems of the modern world was particularly in this part of Europe concerning the restructuring of one of the largest defence industry's economic systems. Since after the end of the Cold War in the defence industry, there have been serious structural disturbances, major disturbances in the structure of public consumption, budgets, etc. Many mid- and small businesses in the sector were at risk. According to some statistics and figures, it was claimed that out of all the medium and small enterprises in the sector, 5% of them survived because the restructuring of medium and small enterprises was simply one newspaper, one big surprise that required special expertise that was not sufficient at the time. Here's what I'll say next. Five years ago, I was invited by a NATO committee to participate in a conference on the subject as a guest lecturer. The topic was related to the restructuring of medium and small enterprises in terms of reduction and separation for processing. It was a very useful conference that showed and pointed to the link between medium and small enterprises with large economic systems, it showed and pointed to their vulnerability and inability to rapidly restructure and adaptability in the conditions of major economic disturbances especially the structure of the budget in most of the countries that occurred at the time. The question that I would say also deserves special attention in the context of the restructuring of medium and small enterprises in the Republic of Croatia and seems difficult to me, it comes down to how to provide additional or newly created value in medium and small enterprises that would be far greater than this moment is. In order to ensure that this is possible without linking medium and small enterprises with the academic community, ensuring appropriate research that needs to increase their technological competence, this means that their competitiveness is almost impossible to achieve the long-term objectives of restructuring of medium and small entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, and this is precisely the issue of the European Commission paying particular attention in the framework of statistical reports. A few months ago, when we talked in the Croatian Parliament about the Annual Report of the Croatian Statistics Institute, it was more than obvious that the statistical reports were still not suitable so that they could follow the structure of medium and small entrepreneurship in a satisfactory way in the long term. Here's an illustration. For example, in the European aviation industry in logistics chains, logistics support participates almost 2 hundred thousand medium and small enterprises whose performances are technologically, every other aspect. Companies that are constantly forced into innovation, creativity to ensure the global competitiveness of large systems such as Euro bass and many other major European economic systems. Therefore, strengthening the medium and small economy is an extremely important topic, regardless of the fact that further legal changes that can strengthen it in the future can be ensured in this area, this bill, this initiative, this debate. I believe this moment is very relevant and important. Enhancing the ability of medium and small enterprises through amendments to certain articles I will only highlight some changes. In particular, I think it deserves the attention of the amendment relating to the provision of support for research, development and application of innovation, and... Contemporary technologies in medium and small enterprises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a real goal but its implementation is extremely demanding, difficult, challenging. If we succeed in implementing this, then I think we are on track to restructure medium and small enterprises and ensure higher rates of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89057	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89058	It's not a classic replica. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Professor Cosic said a very important thing. I only touched it at the beginning, which is that it is very, very important and this ministry recognized the re-industriousisation of Croatia, stopping further deindustrisation and I think it is extremely important and much done on this plan. It was done because no significant system, production system, technological system went bankrupt during this government, that is, until this ministry is of great quality. Because, of course, we would increase exports, to create new jobs, it is only possible in production activities, and production activities especially in small and medium-sized enterprises are multiplicated if they bind to large systems, to a technologically demanding product, and I think that in this respect, efforts should continue to be made in the sense that the whole mind is gathered and that all those institutes that have knowledge, which have a fit, and not that it happens to us as it happened with the ship's institute and so on. One respectable institution that had top experts, which also has top conditions, and one great designer of our ships told me, i.e. from his story I learned when he was making certain projects that got a review on the world market that he was working in an outdated, technically poorly equipped institute in Vienna instead of being able to do it here in Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89059	Answer Mr. Cosic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89060	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I thank you for your comment, on your replica which really points to one of the difficult economic developments of the Republic of Croatia in the long term, which is to strengthen the link between large economic systems and medium and small enterprises. This is the right way because without large systems, medium and small businesses remain almost isolated at lower levels of technological production, at lower levels and competitiveness. And I think it's the right way. And in that sense, I think that this government made a key and important decision a month ago, given that you from Sibenik, when TLM decided to assign you to the Croatian consortium. The Croatian consortium, which has been challenged for a number of reasons, is precisely offering its main competitiveness in the tender through the strengthening of medium and small entrepreneurship in collaboration with the new restructured TLM. And in this area there are great opportunities and great challenges for our colleges, Engineering Faculty, Broding Institute and many others. This relationship between the big economy, middle and small entrepreneurship and our university is the way to go. I'm saying this with a personal experience of working in that space and those areas of over 35 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89061	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89062	Your Honor, Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, a little bit of statistics. I think we all agree that the small economy is one more dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Small economy entities account for as much as 99% of the total number of economic operators. They employ 55% of the total number of employees. Small economic operators achieved positive from a negative consolidated financial result in 2004 with an increase of more than 300 %. According to FINA, which covers only legal persons in 2005, we have 70 thousand 729 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with 457 thousand 543 employees and earn 200.9 billion kuna total income. The craft also records an increase. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia had 100,000 registered craftsmen with 138 thousand employees. In 2005, there were over 105 thousand with 150 thousand employees. A total of 258 people were employed in crafts and free professions. Here's all that statistics is now beautiful. But now the question is whether the state really has enough understanding for what is called a small, micro-economic. It is clear that it should be because every third worker of the Republic of Croatia is employed in that branch. And I repeat, it achieves about 200 billion kuna of total income in the Republic of Croatia, and it certainly is not to be underestimated. I think it's also important to say that the economic opportunities from year to year will be better. And it will be even better, no matter who runs this country, on one condition that we don't all sink under the burden of external debt together. I am also deeply convinced that in 5, 6, 7 years in this country, there will be a bigger problem with workers than with jobs as is happening in some parts of the country, like in northern Istria. I would also say that state interventionism in this field when it comes to a small economy, the economy as a whole will be getting smaller. Credits are being taken over by banks today. State, local self-government needs to keep guarantees here. The establishment of the Risk Capital Fund, the provision of support for employment. But what else is there to do? To be clear, if someone supports that little economy, then I think the IDS supports it. If in Croatia it employs 55% of the total number of workers in Istria it is safe and over 70%. So if something needs to be strengthened then at this point, even because of one moral hygiene, that little economy should be strengthened. Why? So they could deal with these large entities that have achieved everything they have achieved through conversion and privatisation. That '91 immorality, '92. In the long run, I can only cure small businessmen who have not come through anything, that someone has given them because of their political or don't know what positions and who work from morning till tomorrow to gain, to preserve what they've acquired. The stories of revision and conversion today in 2007 are stories only for naive, as well as in criminal tax. That could have been done in 2000. Today won't be possible anymore. And the final revision won't even be possible for two reasons. If touched by these large pillars of society then a good part of the Croatian economy would be destroyed and the question arises who would work outside with them at all. And secondly, Croatia, unlike one Venezuela, has neither the capital nor Chavez, that, come on, which may not be bad. But what I'm saying is, these big ones in Croatia today are holding both Tisak and the media and television, and by the very fact that they give Croatia 600, 700 million kunas through commercials, they say they are ready to take down the state before they can, rather than withdraw from the position they control today. I regret that somewhere back in 2000, these people were never asked just one thing, where did you gentlemen or your comrades get the money back in '90, '91? Or '92. A year. So that's settled, no revisions. How much does the team care about the state today most about the fact that Croatia's biggest investment today has Serbia, which is fine, because that's how we win the market, and right behind Serbia is nothing less than Switzerland, and that's clearly for money laundering. 'Cause come on, Switzerland's safe, so on. Let's keep something safe. You see, little businessmen don't do that. That's where they invest in this country. They don't make money. And what will happen when they just have to fight for a naked survival? I claim that of all the measures laid down in Article 6 of this Act the only real measure, the only real small economy at this time would be if VAT were paid in 60 days, not 30 days. So I don't even advocate what Italy has to pay for... The VAT in 4 months, but 60 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I claim that the economic power of these 70,000 small medium-sized enterprises in four years would have doubled. And it would be a real economic measure if the economyman could catch his breath. That would be kind of a tax revolution. So just to replace this 30-day deadline with a 60-day deadline, clearly, it would be ideally 90 days. We're out there in '98, '99. Those 15 days where VAT had to be paid to move to 30 days and I think that today 2007 is the time for it to stretch to pay means 60 days and that the state can endure it today. Who is gentlemen in this country who exhibits more than 12 billion kuna indifference, 50% of that money refers to trade, annual indifference increases by 2 billion kuna. So who's in a state without a permanent duty to serve the state in advance, and that the invoiced goods know it won't be paid for five, six, seven, eight months, maybe a year, and clearly that ultimately it has to be transferred to that buyer at the end. That's the point, and I'm saying that one such small measure would be the tax revolution. The biggest incentive for the small and medium economy. Secondly, the question arises when this government, we see that it hasn't even passed, will decide that these tenants, so on. State, or local self-government space, is likely to be able to buy these tiny little buttocks, shops and so on. In this country, everyone got something except for those craftsmen. Those who led the column and came out as winners of World War II on Tuškanc in Nazor's all there got villas, tycoons got factories, farmers if not Istrians could get to the ground, workers got 5, 6 thousand marks of apartments, our generals of the apartment, and the craftsman couldn't reach his space. Well, he doesn't need room to give, so he can really buy it, but like there's no peasants without land, so there's no craftsmen without space. Clearly, there should now also talk about incentives, unfortunately again incentives get only great. State, I agree, someone said we need to resuscitate large systems. Why? Because if you have a TLM removed or it's good to resuscitate now the Sisak Ironworks down in Split, then the small craftsmen with these large systems will profit as well as the "Lenac" has been rescheduled because over 500 co-operatives with a thousand workers have been placed on it already at this time even though the shipbuilding has been set up in a way for the state to resuscitate and that the private interest is profiting. Taxes are important, they're not key, I say it's more crucial to do this with the VAT today than I suggest. We have VAT, profit tax 20%, the Germans have 40%. Why? To get them to reinvest and it's important to build for a few more moments. The communal infrastructure, the administration, is forced to issue these building permits immediately, the monumental rent should be abolished or the towns should be paid by the small ones, public tenders should really be implemented in the tender that there is no adjustment, there is no racketeering as we are looking at the newspapers now and we are reading these phonograms that come out of the police and more than one driver because the question is whether a driver can recruit someone for 100,000 euros which only some other people can do. And finally, it is clear to me that there should be an emphasis because today when a man starts to work, a young man where he will get a job rather than in that small economy and so much really needs to have maximum understanding for those who start their work and thus open their first job and encourage them to provide their job and bread through such a form.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89063	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89064	Thank you very much. I think that Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Cain is a little easier on him after my replica, because here's just to know that even in the flat Subravna, the country is not privatized, we never asked to get it but to buy it because the process is totally stopped and there is a law with us so that family agriculture, households are only declared out of interest for the Republic of Croatia and cannot be increased or broken, and this law now does not foresee any benefits or subsidies for them, nor the possibility of using funds through the Ministry of Employment or through the Ministry because as legal entities farmers are forced or to be cooperatives, businesses or businesses, and as a family agricultural household that has its status, which is simply thrown out in the register. So we're declaring ourselves in one way, and we're administratively holding them back, and we just don't treat them like... Subjects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The family household is the healthiest, the OPG, the healthiest one because there's both dad and mom and son and daughter and they're all not asking anyone for any benefits. However, the law is released and as if it doesn't exist, and in fact this peasant finally needs to be abolished and the peasants abolished, then I guess the state and everyone would be pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89065	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89066	I hope the peasants don't stop, but when a peasant needs help like no peasants without land, there are no craftsmen without a business space. They don't ask the Istrians, Mr. Kolar, to give them land, they ask to buy it, but at normal, market prices, not to make those prices in Istria 70 or 80 times the average of Croatia. And under these conditions, a peasant cannot develop in these areas of northwestern Croatia, and that is exactly what it is, that is, we are getting up against it and we are trying to fight it and we are asking for help in this House to treat the Istrian peasant who is going to visit the country in the same way as all the other citizens of this country. That's what these people in these places deserve, not that they're belittled and discredited in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89067	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Sima Armsman's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89068	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Given the subject it is difficult to limit itself to the proposal of the law,... If you had spent all day and yesterday in the debate, I would have told the relevant areas of this topic that we are considering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I will try very briefly in a similar way, when the discussions are already going so to warn the good news that we have had so far and the experience we have had so far, and some of the gaps or weaknesses that we have. Finally, no solution is ideal enough that it should not be changed, and therefore this proposal for a law, today changes are coming precisely to improve and improve the situation of a small economy. Here is the topic I would like to point out that in the global world today it is difficult to talk about or that we will discuss when a report on the implementation of the budget in the last year on the overall macroeconomic indicators that is happening in certain cross-sectoral relations as well as in the overall economy, especially when it comes to import or export dependence. But what I want to point out today is to say, remind once again that our society is actually experiencing a post-industrial phase and that almost so we can say that that stage industrial is behind us and with all regret for the past, it is no longer to be fixed. But it can be perfected and adapted to new times and new conditions. Here is the last debate that warns about the status of peasants, the craftsmen are mostly referred to as craftsmen but I want to remember the phase of the fact that the converts, the peasants in society were treated, and from here many of them were active participants, treated as public enemies, and unfortunately this has remained in their heads until today and should be fought against both public opinion and laws and control. It should also be reminded in that time and this is a characteristic not only of the industrial period but of some other periods when only labor and honest intelligence were a pillar of society, and all others were actually enemies of society. Here, those tails are pulling to this day and it's burdening us. And it's good to finally clear that up so we can move forward. Now we have come to the second stage in which development began and in a more active way to highlight the role of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, so it is different and treated at different stages from craftsmanship through small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, a small economy which is quite clear that these phases were both coordinated and in organisational but also in the social position of these systems and these forms. Here, in that sense, at that initial stage, and even to this day, often this synonym and the term tycoon are actually an attack I would say freely on complete entrepreneurship, because everyone is a thief who has come up with something. And I can't agree with that. I simply think here, today someone mentioned Todorovic or Agrokor or many others who are a positive and successful example. And what if we were to threaten some kind of legal uncertainty, take measures, take property, tax, I don't know what else? So I believe that this would completely undermine the economic and economic system of the state, and thus the issue of political security without saying later development and investment in our society. Therefore, it is in this sense that there have been certain irregularities but it cannot and must not be a characteristic of the overall relationship with entrepreneurship. This topic and this position should be gradually placed not as a taboo topic but as a topic for discussion and resolution of the situation in which we are located. Every economy in every society is an engine and a driver and a bearer of that society. Without it, all other instruments are cancelled. If the engine cancels, then I'm sure the car won't move from the scene. In this sense, the state today also makes a special effort to make this economy, a small economy that is increasingly more and more significant in society, reminding only two, three indicators, that today over 90, almost 99% does in the structure of the state's economy, that about 55% does in the structure of employees in the country, that it already accounts for about 37% of the total investment in society. That's not what we're talking about. Foreign and other investments. Therefore, the state must make it possible for that engine, the driver who will, in the future, carry the development of society and state in the post-industrialisation phase. Here, in that sense, as many as they will create, so much society will be able to redistribute. Of course, all measures of macroeconomic policy each year must improve the conditions of business of that society. I agree. In order to examine, in line with the fiscal potential of the state, the situation regarding the possibility of VAT returns, which, of course, puts all businessmen in a more favourable position, I mean a small economy, but this is also a large economy, because it is difficult to differentiate in society who is small and who is big, thus creating an unequal competition, which, of course, would disrupt that system again in those relations. About the development of this society at this time, I believe that huge funds have been invested. Here, in the last year, only HABOR invested about 650 million kunas through various forms of incentive. With all the funds that the ministries have allocated to praise, which has been invested in the sector, the country's strong concern about the segment is indicated. Of course, that position should continue to be strengthened if possible. But the state itself cannot do, nor is it invited in the end, I mean the Government and the others, make a move alone unless the local community is involved in all forms. I remember the different stages about it when many said, say, reduce the communal burdens to try to encourage this particular sector. Well, it went from spending. It takes so much and so much to spend through municipal income, and I don't care if that little craftsman or entrepreneur will be able to withstand such a burden. Here, and in that sector you can do more. It can also be done more through the prices of all those forms of municipal contributions from cities, municipalities across the county to the state level, in order to prefer them and thus to improve their role in society in some way, because they will quickly return this invested, this particularly invested money to society. Equally, this should be treated and seen not only through these entrepreneurial zones, but also through spatial plans to actually enable faster and easier development of this sector. So through, I'm not even sure today that all the counties in this country have brought in regional, operational programmes that are one of the foundations of society in fact, or from the foundations of development then and economic and other zones, so that they can function. Why am I commenting on this? It's a waste if there's only one place we're going to take action. These measures will not give the expected results. Therefore, these measures, regardless of who is at what levels, need to be harmonised and synchronised to prepare this particular engine to move society forward faster. But with all these good indicators and a positive assessment of the situation that we are in today, here's how much time allows, very briefly, not only this law that has a positive intention to improve this atmosphere and redefine who these medium and small economies are, thus harmonising the instrumentation of incentives, but I also warn that we should then do and control the spending of these funds. Kolega Topic and I know very well and others, that part of these small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, however you will, abuse these incentives, to register in the field of special care and 100% of the activities are carried out, I know about examples in Zadar, but I do not want to publicly represent them here, so let the state services do the whole activity in Zadar or in this other developed area, and it is registered for all possible benefits that it abuses. It was also encouraging earlier in employment. I know very well the examples of abuse, taking workers for a certain time, money from the state, and then spinning the number of employees, and that was actually a positive number of people who weren't really. And the third question when it comes to this law is not settled, but the other law should also review the material costs of individuals, so let's say in Zagorje that I don't hurt any of them when one of them is, let's say, stronger craftsmen, entrepreneurs or anything like a material cost and for the purposes of the company buy a yacht with everything not to say blue diesel and everything else that goes. So the state has a lot of space, a lot of opportunities, needs to work to perfect instruments and coordinate the overall instrumentation of the state and this law is just one small attempt, one contribution to this very situation being improved in society. Thank you very much. And I support the natural proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89069	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Bagaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant. A lot of things Mr. Puppie took from me in my mind what to say about this subject today, but here's a few things I'll do again. I think it's good to do it again because obviously the repetition finds problems and then, in an adequate way, they have to and they have to solve them. The small economy as a summary concept certainly includes crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies, other forms of entrepreneurial activity. The Small Economy Development Act, adopted in 2002, must indeed recognise that one significant contribution has been made to the development of a small economy. But that was during 2002 and we are already in 2007 and this amendment and the addition of the law is also going towards improving ways to make even more important to this development of small economy and entrepreneurship. The small economy is the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia as well as the following indicators. 99% of the total number of economic operators are small-scale operators in the Republic of Croatia. Here's an example for my county, even more 99.4% are exactly small-scale businessmen. 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy is in small economy entities, in my county for comparison of a small segment of the Croatian state is 53%. 37% of domestic investment in the small economy, in the County of Požega-Slavonska 35%. In fact, I would like to speak a few more indicators from one document Mr. Przenjač mentioned and unfortunately do not have all of our counties in their strategic documents of sustainable economic development. These are regional operational programmes. From it it is possible to read that 48.5% of total income and 56.6% of profits in the area, i.e. in the field of work of 564 small and medium-sized companies, means a small economy that really says and says that the small economy is a very large generator and employment and the economic stability that we currently have in our country. Very good or tough survived all the war events, all the direct and indirect damage suffered by entrepreneurs or our small economy, and from that time the truth came out mutilated or with the damage suffered but in any case far better than the larger economic operators. Strong support for the development of entrepreneurship, we must say, also gave credit to banks and interest subsidies granted by units of local self-government, regional self-government in 2005 and the Croatian State or the Croatian State budget. It was a good model with both the funds allocated and the deposit that could be used on the allocations of the unit of local self-government to implement a particular business programme in their area. We must also say that the entrepreneurial infrastructure from the entrepreneurship centres, the incubator also worked and helped our entrepreneurs but that during this time it was upgraded and given a new basis to absolutely entrepreneurs and it stands. This can also be seen and read from economic indicators, here I am only for my county that industrial production is bigger than the previous year or previous year, to change the ratio of imports and exports, that here in this county the surplus regarding exports is larger than the imports by 30 percent because here it is for a county that is in Slavoja and Baranja really to praise. That the unemployment rate is decreasing, and I'm using this opportunity to deny what you've often heard about here in the Parliament that Požega-Slavon County is one of the last counties in economic activity, so if you see from this data, the Employment Office has a rate... 20.6% and she's a sublime of all economic parameters but she's one of the counties that's somewhere in the golden middle, I'm not going to say that we're satisfied with that condition and in any case it's not the last thing about her economic activity that some people wanted to show and show. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely this ratio of credit and credit through bank loans, through interest subsidies turned I would say the last two years to help raise entrepreneurship zones and not that data is unreal, it is really real, 284 entrepreneurial zones are activated, funded or helped to finance all infrastructures. And the information that works there or has implemented its programs of a thousand 260 entrepreneurs is indeed one amazing piece of information and that about 18 thousand and 320 people have been employed. That it also encouraged other forms of production through agriculture, fishing, through rural development, through new technologies, programmes that carried new technologies, that it had raised and provided opportunities for small shipbuilding and small shipbuilding programmes also in tourism. So here's my one continental county used this loan to raise tourism and tourism facilities. What I want to say here, first of all, is that in the results one survey precisely in the development of this regional operational programme as a strategic document for the sustainable economic development of a small part of Croatia's home country, Požeško-Slavonska County has also established certain problems that are borne by, which are little economy, all of our entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs with whom they have dealt. Which they solved with the help of the Croatian government but some, unfortunately, remained. They are of an external nature and of an internal nature. Of these external problems, it is certainly necessary to mention the slow and inefficient red tape although something has indeed been done in terms of the formation and organisation of the "Hurry HR" where it is no longer necessary to ask for so much, to visit the door in a position to obtain a specific permit for craft entrepreneurs, but it has already been shortened to a reasonable period. A high level of debt among companies, a banking sector that does not support small businesses or avoids supporting small businesses. A limited market, by the disintegration of the former state, indeed, and some entities have lost their market. Low purchasing power of our population, poor protection of the rights of the borrower, insufficient business infrastructure, high tax burdens, unfair competition or the grey economy that still exists in us to a significant extent, but one significant shift in terms of solving the problem of the gray economy I think the government has absolutely bitten and solved. Poor business development services, unresolved property-legal relations on the parcels they need, are purchased by our entrepreneurs. Out of internal difficulties: poor development of trade marks and promotions, lack of data on trade tariffs in the European Union, customs duties, incentives, lack of basic business education, high level of duty as well as lack of certification quality. Low levels of skills in business management, outdated technology and so on and so on and so on, I don't list in detail because time is running out. Small entrepreneurs do not use external consultants or services of the Chamber of Commerce or their crafts chambers to an sufficient extent. The price of capital, the loan still being shared, is unfortunately high. It has also been made a move with bankers that here recently there has been a cheaper, cheaper capital, and with the subsidisation and help of regional self-government, local self-government cannot say that there can still be one better situation for, for taking credit or cheaper, cheaper capital. The aim of this law is indeed to improve transparency, accessibility as raising the level of compliance of measures in order to achieve greater efficiency, efficiency of entrepreneurship development. The adoption of this law on changes and additions to fostering the development of a small economy will regulate as well as the law in its brief summary and said also criteria for the distinction of micro-small and medium-sized entities, special incentive measures for vocational education. Requalification and qualification of workers. The availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia is clarified. The number of programme implementation holders is increasing. There are still some monetary institutions involved to help raise this. So I think we're on track to solve the problems we've identified absolutely. Those who remain unsolved and give yet another rightful incentive to a small economy in the overall stability of the economy and economic relations in Croatia. So I will support absolutely these amendments and additions to the law and finally the law on raising the development of entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89071	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89072	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bagaric, I will agree with you that the credit lines carried out by the former government and the current government, regardless of the model, gave good results and that they recognized the needs of entrepreneurs to open their doors to the banks to get fresh capital in order to start investment and employment. However, what we are not talking about here today in the House in this law will change the statistical monitoring, legal, legal normation of small entrepreneurs, but my colleague, Bagaric, no longer has those credit lines. Well, you see, that's what we should talk about. For the past seven years, I think about 10 billion entrepreneurs have received these credit lines in this model or that model. I'm absolutely sure at least I don't have the exact information that they've opened over 100,000 new jobs in those seven years. However, here are the amendments to this law that do not provide for funding activities. Not a single contract in this year with a county that was a partner in the conclusion of financing and lending contracts has been made. And that's, that's the problem we need to talk about. Not how good that is. Because it's gone. That was good. That was good. We made a good product called credit. He even had eight subprojects. But today it's gone. Instead of putting ourselves in a small economy by the end of the year, I estimate how much between 500 and 700 million kunas could be done, we have lifted the credit lines. My buddy's out of credit lines today. New contracts don't come together. The reason is that this lending model had too many subsidies that actually ate the original part of the county budget and that apparently the Ministry of Economy in the budget did not provide for money for interest subsidies as needed. They're not in the budget for this year. We could see that when we adopted the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89073	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89074	We both agree that the loans gave their results. Here's what I'm talking about in my county. I won't speak to the state. We've divided four years of nearly 105 million kuna credits. We hired through these loans somewhere around 500 people, actually came to the job price somewhere between 240 thousand and 500 thousand depending on which segment was employment. However, I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has subsidized loans through its ministries even in 2005. I gave you yesterday information about Požega-Slavonska County. The economy ministry about 800,000 kuna for a credit line that was somewhere around 122 million kuna and the Ministry of Family and Defence also somewhere around 700 and some thousand kuna. Together with local self-government units, we've been monitoring this credit program. But I also said in my statement that the government has made one turn in terms of now encouraging financing of entrepreneurship zones, initiatives that come with ours, from our units of local self-government and that this is a good and correct path. And all entrepreneurs as natural persons are left at their disposal the potential of the credit potential of our banks, and here we have heard this and in the announcement they will be able to run in the banks of the European Union countries for their own initiatives and ideas that they will also have in the loans they will give, and these banks. So they won't be inaccessible capital, they won't miss these variations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89075	Another replica, Mr. Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague, Bagaric, who said a lot about the small economy, and among other things mentioned some weaknesses in the business of small entrepreneurs, not the use of chamber services. My colleague and I agree with you, the only question now is whether it is small entrepreneurs who are responsible for this, or whether the chamber is both economical and so crafty, whether they are performing that function that they should perform, whether, in an appropriate way, in today's business conditions, they represent the adequate interests of their members who have to mention the mandatory members of the forced law, whether they are doing service and service to entrepreneurs in an adequate manner. This is a big question because, in addition to some of the manifestation measures that are more used by the chamber for their personal promotion, I don't think they do anything far from what they should do as regards information related to new trends in the market, new technologies, about providing information on legal measures and certain suggestions, etc. I think we should also talk about this seriously because it is certain that entrepreneurs are not with the roles of chambers especially small, or can be satisfied. In this area it is much more necessary to do a team more than today, which I noted in my debate that small entrepreneurs are often not equal on the market with large ones and there would be the role of the chamber of crucial importance to protect their interests and to articulate them in the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89077	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89078	I agree completely with my colleague. Surely the guilt is on both sides and from entrepreneurs and from the chamber of entrepreneurs who should seek the help of the chamber, not only of the chamber but also of their business centre, the incubator where there can be knowledge of the particular problems it has and which should be addressed, but also of the reverse that the chamber is looking for, not only for, the payment of the chamber contribution, but for its entrepreneur to implement one of the ideas in one way in accordance with the development strategy of a particular area or segment of development in our units of local self-government. I think we really need to work on the overall infrastructure from the beginning of the idea of entrepreneurs to the implementation of his idea on the plot itself, on the ground. So, over all the institutions we have at this point if there are any more to upgrade and upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89079	Thank you. It's Mr. Walter Poropat's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89080	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. Deputy or Assistant Minister. Any progress in the legislative regulation on the promotion of small legislation has come well and should be supported as such but preferably improved. Small-scale operators account for 99% of the total number of economic operators. They are the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. In the small economy, about 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy are employed, which means they make a significant share of the gross domestic product. However, the rate of regional unemployment remains very high and is around 16%, not to mention large differences in 6% to 7% of people unemployed in Istria County up to 20% in as many as 11 counties, and up to one county unemployment is growing to a sad 30.6%. And it is the largest early economy of the Republic of Croatia that requires not only a recovery but also a turning towards new ideas and programmes, a re-painting of good in Europe and the world of famous projects, to projects from Istria County that can be transferred to other counties in Croatia. I'll just say a few examples. On behalf of the IDS Club, the Istrian County has also spoken to counterpart Drandic, among other things, the Istrian Development Agency, which does not use a single kuna from the budget for its existence, and so far over 550 entrepreneurial projects have been implemented through the Istrian Development Agency with around 650 million kuna loans to entrepreneurs. The Istrian County has developed a regional operational plan, developed a programme of entrepreneurial zones, a master plan for tourism development, which is the cornerstone of the development of tourism for the future of Istria. The Istrian County has launched a consortium for Istra 21 guarantees, which is an excellent help for new entrepreneurs who have good projects and programmes, but do not have enough guarantees of their own that have come across great support. Among other things, these are just some of the projects that have raised the Istrian County to the very top of its rural development in the Republic of Croatia with the lowest unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia, so the same or similar programmes should be passed on to all of Croatia. However, when we talk about this bill of law that is before us, I repeat any progress towards promoting the development of a small economy is welcome. But here I would like to say that I support the position of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which assesses the useful participation of representatives of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the work of the Management Board of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. Since it is a state bank which is also the most significant partner of HAMAG. In 2006, HBOR loans were followed by HAMAG guarantees with over 60% in the total amount of loans and planned investments. That is why I have proposed that a representative of HABOR enter the Management Board of HABOR on the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, which is not accepted for the reason that it has been said among other things, because there are 11 members already in the Management Board, and it is not necessary to increase it. I personally did not mention or think that there was an increase in the number of board members, but the point of purpose is to appoint as many as 4 members from the same state body in this case of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the Management Board. I know these four members remained in the earlier formation of three ministries, but now the ministry is united and there is no need for four members, but it would certainly be worth having HABOR have one member. Because HABOR's experience in the problem of lending to small-scale entrepreneurs and projects and their projects would certainly contribute to better designing HAMAG's accompanying programmes. Someone's gonna say there might be a conflict of interest here. However, when we know that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is founded precisely for such projects and that in the Republic of Croatia the economy is raised to what level Croatia would deserve then I must say that there should be no question of conflict of interest here. And to conclude, personally, I think that any progress in the legislation on encouraging the development of a small economy is welcome. And a slaughter like that should support him and possibly improve him. I'll just say one example. Encouraging the family rural economy must certainly be encouraged from these examples in a way, since the family rural economy is still the cornerstone of what we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89081	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jaksa Marasovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89082	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is such a beautiful law, and it should be seen as one hot lady coming out of a hairdresser, everything's fine, everything's well written, numbers that are amazing. So let's say that small and medium-sized enterprises achieved 200, over 200 billion kunas of income in 2005. Now I don't know who's writing it. Or I don't understand anything. Because the budget is about 100, 110, GDP double the budget. So what do these others do, huh? And about the figures say otherwise, they say that our total GDP is achieved in state-owned companies about 65.70%, and in small, large and medium-sized enterprises, the remainder is, like, 30.35%. So it's true, it's true. And clearly, we will also vote for this law, because it is cosmetics but it is P.Z.E., and since we are for Europe we will vote for this law. But I'd say something else, which is very important for this problem. You know how small entrepreneurs work? Only if they have political mentors. Even my bride knows that, Petričevka, there are no small entrepreneurs if there are no political mentors. My experience is the same, it is. I'm just a small politician, I'm not HDZ, and I'm not SDP. I'm a little micro. So I helped small and small entrepreneurs. But what situation do we have today? So we have one cosmetic of this law, and we have a real situation like this to say with the best intentions of young people to leave entrepreneurship and start dealing with some kind of business they have to have before then a bon 1 and a bon 2, I don't know what, they don't have, but they have to have, do they, to get credit. They must have gentlemen from politics to get something small from the county, from the city, from the state, and the state so little predicts for this. Since there hasn't been a Pecek as a minister, it's almost nothing. And let's say they get it all together, they get it all together and they get into the big system, let's say they get into the Konzum or the Agrokora with a deposit of £200,000 that they have to deposit there to work for them, and they're paid for about 180 to 360 days, so they pay for these big entrepreneurs. And when that deposit stops there and they work, they supply goods for these big entrepreneurs, which, by the way, I have to say only works on what the state gave them and they're not their problem anymore, they're the state's problem. Number one state problem. Today Agrokor with INA is the biggest problem of the country. The only thing we know about INA is that he's already making some kind of profit, and for Agrokor, we're not exactly as sure as he's doing business. We don't know that. But this year 15 billion kuna, the next one goes to 22. And INA's going to have something less than 22, and so you know order size. And when these little entrepreneurs get into such companies with a deposit like that, they're not getting paid anything. A little bit and slowly, is it, when I was in the headship, you know how the parole was in my headship, we pay little and no way. And, well, I had that kind of steam in me. Then the HZD comes in the middle of power and then there's 100 million kuna left in the account, they don't know where they're gonna spend it. So you're thrifty, and we're expendable. And then you do this, or you don't pay, or everything that has a bill, the money in the account, you don't pay anyone anything. So these payments come up to a year, and the contractual deadlines are about 30, 60, 90, 120, or if you know how that goes with that payment, twice you call the relationship, the third time you realize you have to take the envelope, so when you take the envelope, it might be that you took the wrong one away, so you don't get paid again, and then you wait again and never charge for it. But that's why you pay VAT on all your bills. You pay for everything. And that's how it works until the man gets tired, while he has to be in debt in banks with the least possible interest of 12% a year. And those banks, we know again who they are, or at least we assume we know, may be ours, you know. There are very wealthy Croats in the banks. And then what happens? There's nothing left for a man but to be in debt from a camera, so either he takes the screw himself or someone kills him. That's how it happens with us, my lords, and we're still importing food over a billion and a half euros, we're still importing everything that could be produced here, not that God can make it happen for us to get some kind of loan from the Habor, say, from the Habor or from the Post Office Bank, not from these private banks, that someone gets a loan on the idea, on the program. How is that gonna happen? That can't happen at all. Only if he has a political mentor or if he bribes someone, then he can get something. And then you have one small percentage of them that succeed, and that's why I can't miraculously be surprised by these numbers that you're taking out here, or what the proposer is saying. If they're right, I'm wrong, but then we should have no. It doesn't matter, Pejo, 7,000 euros per head, but we'd have to have a much, much bigger GDP. At least twice as big. Why are you lying like that? Why are they talking like that? I don't know, but gentlemen my dear I only know one thing. The only thing I know is that it's profitable is "T-com", it's certainly profitable and that data I checked out in 2004 had something above 8 billion kuna income, 4 billion profits and it was a big profit for Croatia because Croatia is 49% owner, and this is another by the one who cheats. That's how we work, that's how we do it, that's how we all owe everyone, and they're gonna have to do it again after '99. And you know how it was in '99, you know what an internal debt was in '99. And so I have to thank the late Racan for handling it in a year, and I didn't believe it was possible to solve it in two years. He's in a year, his government has settled an internal debt in a year. In what way? She got rid of him. Anyway, everything worked after that. Everything worked. I was the director of one big system for four years. In the first year, a few people invited me to intervene for payment, and then nobody ever called me to intervene for payment. So, it's all been paid by the terms of the contract or before, and today you know how it works. All of you together have friends or acquaintances who do some work and know how it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89083	We have one correction and four replicas. First correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89084	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague who claims that the 200 billion-dollar data on the income of small entrepreneurs is not correct. This information is correct, the difference between income and gross national income is known to everyone. I'll only provide the information that a little entrepreneurship, you have on the website under a small economy last year represented 50% of the total gross social product. If we know that the gross social product is roughly double the budget, it means 55% of 200 billion, but in participating in gross national income, not income. The revenue is over 200 billion, that's two concepts we don't have the time to discuss now, of course. The same small enterprise participated in exports last year with as much as 27%. You have the same information on the same page, and as much as 37 and a half percent participated in the total Croatian economy. So that's what it says about the power of small entrepreneurship. The second incorrect data I quote states contributes little or gives or foresees to give to a small economy. Is that little 100 million of the Ministry of Economy, 630 million Hubor, let's add to that another Regional Development Fund, let's add to that Hamag, so it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89085	Thank you very much. We have the first replica Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89086	My colleague Marasovic, I think that you are right especially when you articulate and especially potentiate this great problem in Croatia that the bauk of indifference has gone over it again. Also, when you talk about the most profitable jobs that today are such that the most profitable jobs in view of the level of development are still unimplemented privatisation to the end with the state. The state is still the biggest investor. The question you ask is the key question of how to get jobs. How is it possible that a company that only has a ficus out of it gets the biggest jobs, and in the competition, this company is set up, is the most favourable bidder and offers goods and services that are several dozen times more expensive than in free sale to say so. Well, there's a question for everyone, that we can imagine how it's possible, and then when you develop the course of events that, of course, those corporations don't do the ultimate service at all, they do it as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who don't get paid, and where they have to pay VAT. So how can he be competitive with whom the state is in debt, to whom the one who was of the highest trust for the state of such a corporation was left? Then how do you pay the workers? He has to pay all the debts to the state, and in the end, he gets blackmailed if he insists on paying those bills then comes a detailed review, police, tax administrations. I have nothing against such institutions, but they must act regularly, and not when a man seeks his right to then knock on the institution's door. So then we ask what it is if not the political racket of the first kind?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89087	Answer, Mr. Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89088	That's great that Ingrid gave me the replica. I forgot to say something. You know, in this country, anything is possible, so one company, possibly one company with one employee, who owns one last name of one Imotski representative, got 540 million kunas on the highway. There's an employee. Do you understand me? And that's something he's talking about. You know me, I've been in the business for a long time, and everything is clear to me and everything is possible. You can cover everything. There's no law you can't cover with your will and conduct the tenders. All spent to be by the law, but to be the way you wanted it to be. Yes, it is. [[That's what you've been doing.]] And that's why you called me a drunk Mrs. Petricevic after you investigated me for a year. Well, that's why you called me a drunk, that's why you've been investigating me for a year, so you called me a drunk. Because you didn't find anything for me. And that you, we will investigate you, not you, against you nothing. But when we do some other research, we'll see how it ends. Don't worry, Mr. Hebrang. [[Intruder: There won't be a chance.]] Don't worry. It's more like he's agreed with you on how we're going to investigate it. So, something is, something I'm going to tell you you know. That's amazing what's going on. To repeat it in '99. And we're in vain with all the numbers if people don't get paid. If people have to wear envelopes, if such a racket is introduced, it's not a political racket, let alone a political racket. All that the party takes is irrelevant. What matters is what people take for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89089	Thank you. We still have a replica of Mr. Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89090	Comrade Marasovic! You said about entrepreneurship that the HDZ in Split is in power and that there are 100 million kuna left on the budget, while the city is in debt. I would say that the HDZ in Split has a mayor but it is questionable whether it is in power because there is also a group of entrepreneurs that only in Croatia organized on a list called the Veli Misti List and which now seems naive and wonders what is happening in the city. And it's like they're not in power there. As if they did not put several members of the headship on behalf of their list, as if they did not put the directors of public utility companies, etc. So it's really strange that in the Split government where entrepreneurs play, under quotes entrepreneurs, they represent themselves and not entrepreneurs as category, so there's really 100 million kuna in the budget, and that the city is in debt at the same time. As for the jobs you've been talking about, it's questionable, I'd only set one example. Kraljevica Shipyard, while there was a director, today's secretary of state at the ministry of Mr. Vukelic, Mr. Vrankovic gave a job to a company that counted between one and three, seemed to me busy, who were supposed to be designing ships, etc., and making emborates. Later, it turned out that the Queen never managed to recover from the shock she experienced by paying a huge sum of money to do the job. So the question is, really, how do we get jobs?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89091	Mr. Marasovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89092	Oh, look, I couldn't agree with Marina. He calls those Split entrepreneurs, and they get 16% of the votes, my God. And constitutional rights have to run. And what they like a little bit and, well, a little bit of hands, that makes sense. Better to lose hands at work than with blue envelopes. And imagine how this works something else. When drivers become entrepreneurs, when drivers become co-operatives... Well, that's imagine that story, how it goes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I don't have it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My driver was driving here, Mr. Vice President, driving my predecessor for nine years, and while I was being removed, while Sanader got me out of that place, the driver immediately took off. Because he was a big problem at the firm. But he doesn't have a firm, he's not an entrepreneur. Well, that's how you do it in my time. But today the drivers can be, they have companies, they have an entrepreneurial spirit. And they're still driving the ministers. ... Yes, it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you have drivers, you have insurance. You remember Chachia. You know what kind of entrepreneur that is. Look what's in Zagorje. And you know what he's doing? He was a security guard, not just a driver. It's bia and insurance. Now, my lords, you know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89093	Let's not go to the drivers when we forget the family's closest members, just after a month, two or three days. Let's move on. The replica of Mr. Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, counterpart Marasovic was also talking about the topic, about the bill that came before us, he couldn't help but be tempted to compare some arguments that didn't go exactly to him or the former coalition government in favour, and it's about liquidity. Namely, all those problems that were present in 1999 were solved through the year, over two years for the Racan authorities' time. It's just not true. Today, the state regularly serves all its obligations on the one hand, and when it comes to the government's successes, you mentioned unemployment. That's all I'm gonna say, the highest unemployment rate of the day. In fact, in the last ten years, it's 22% since 31.12.2002, during your time, it means coalition power. And what you've sent over is an observation regarding the giving of some highway shares, I can tell you that one of your party colleagues from the Dalmatian Zagora I assume you know who I mean, got six kilometers and didn't have a single... What we say at home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're giving some observations about some people who've been getting to God with one employee. I must say, on the other hand, that government, former government and current government comparatively in all segments when it comes to macroeconomic indicators are incomparable. Therefore, there is greater unemployment, bigger problems in the development of the economy and in this segment when it comes to the development of a small economy, then I can say at least to the Dalmatian Zagora that your government has done absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89095	Mr. Marasovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89096	Jure! I have to tell you something. I'm not surprised at you. You're ending... High school and I'm really not surprised at you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either you're deaf or you're blind. Or you're both. Because if you don't see how you don't pay, if you don't hear, then my God, then you, I don't know where you live. Are you hiding in a hole... And here we are, this extension. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So no one's getting paid, Jure. It's trouble and it's a big problem. That's the problem. And as for employment and unemployment, so listen if for these four years you've managed to reduce... Look, I would never rule you out because I don't care what you say, even if I say what I say. ... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Kurt, they want Kurt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's for you. So that's my Jure problem. If you don't see how much you don't pay and what kind of people have problems. Ask Zivko Nenadic, everyone complains to him. He knows. He knows. He knows Kajo Butjan, he knows Bekavac, he knows Topic, they all complain. ... I understand you, you're here and you have to talk like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89097	Thank you very much. This is the Croatian Parliament, however, and it should be left there somewhere else. Injury of the Rules of Procedure... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89098	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe that this High House and I think that my thinking is shared by all my colleagues and fellow MPs and that it can't be the subject of a debate that's being held in the pubs, in cafes, and there people often choose words when it comes to partners. Not only when it comes to teammates, but they lead the elemental need to be in some way, to... I don't feel hurt here, but Mr. Marasovic your story and your observations here suggest that I simply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89099	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89100	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89101	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89102	Insulting MPs, that I just feel like you're still under some influence, which I don't know, but I don't want to discuss with you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89103	Thank you. We have another replica of Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You see, we've turned the wrong way, there's controversy between Jake and the other colleagues, even if he's actually on one good track. He offered a good solution. In fact, we've been discussing a lot lately whether or not they should be ministers on boards. And you see, if I got him right, he suggested that we put the drivers on board because they're very close to the ministers, and that's going to solve another problem. In fact, they won't be in the gray economy anymore because now they have to do black work, they have to recalibrate and end up perhaps in custody. We would probably have more tax revenues if this one good concept for which, if I understood correctly, Jaksa advocates and applies. But what's the problem today? Today is the problem of discrimination against small entrepreneurs and I will say it best in the example of agriculture. It's already been said here. If you have a family agricultural economy you are discriminated against because to come to HAMAG it is impossible, to get a boost from the ministry it is impossible for a simple reason because it is not intended for the family economy that has several tens of thousands to get help. And as it pleases the great I will explain it on the example of the subsidy in agriculture. Incentives grew 10% for small businesses in agriculture by one year, 38% for large ones and the largest ones, the first ten largest ones recorded 50% growth in a year, and thus withdrew 180 million kuna in agriculture. There are examples that the privatised company for 13 million kuna in the Virovitica County and after privatisation for incentives over two years that same firm received 29 million kuna, means twice as much as it was paid in privatisation, of course at the expense of small ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89105	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89106	Yes, Mr. President, I must replicate Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89107	You don't have to if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89108	Don't interrupt me, I'll extend what you're interrupting. Mr. Pecek, I have nothing against the driver just to be in the VAT system. Let it be them, let them deal with business but keep it in the VAT system. Let them later drive and ministers, let them drive and the Prime Minister doesn't mind me. ... Shex has a driver who's not in the VAT system. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, but you know that's not news. I'll tell you what happened seven years ago. For example, at that time, Vice President Jure Radic was putting his secretaries on board. So, and the women had a small salary, it has to increase a little bit. ... It's all clear to me because the boards are irrelevant. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait, you're Luke, please stop. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then go with me to Trnjak to talk. I have something to tell you. And I was also on the board of directors and I never liked the 3.5 thousand kunas that I had received once a year... And every month, 3.5 thousand. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, that's what I spent in the Trnjanca, Mr. Hebrang. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And who's to blame for your savings? So, I don't mind just making everything transparent. And you find me the one who bought it in Trnjanca. You've never honored me. There you are. You're so stingy. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89109	The club of representatives of the HSS five-minute debate, respected representative Željko Pecek. ... Peace. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89110	Thank you very much. Mr. President, it looks to the atmosphere that it would be best if we continued the debate in Trnjanka, so that she might be more creative. I hope the entrepreneurs listen to this debate where we're fighting who did more, but it's absolutely certain that no government, either that former or this present one has done what it takes, how many people they've earned, and it's especially certain that by amending this law they'll get even less. We heard here both the left and the right truth so I would tell the truth center. The truth of the centre is that in 2002 we brought the Small Economy Act to Croatia for the first time. We have also brought a legal environment for micro, medium and small, but what is most important is we have adopted a programme of incentive measures and we have called this law the very Law on the Development of the Economy. A lot of new products have been created from the credit lines that were spoken of here, and because of the truth center, often some have abused it. 7000 243 loans were granted until November 2003. This amounted to 4 billion 557 million and a loan potential of 7 billion 641 kuna was formed. She was a colleague of Hebrang 188 entrepreneurial zones that we put in the government report. In 2000, it was only 20. It says, you have it, and I ask you not to use the truth left options on the right, but the truth of the center. There were 25 entrepreneurial incubators in late 2003. 48 centers. He was also an electronic craft register, a cooperative register in electronic form and for 3 years 69,000 334 jobs in a small economy. But what's new in this law? What's up with the affirmative? What are the changes? We're narrowing down space for entrepreneurs. We are erasing the possibility of supporting employment for small entrepreneurs. We abolish the possibility that real estate to small entrepreneurs is sold or leased by agencies called HAMAG means a small economy agency. Two years ago, the Parliament passed a Law saying that under special conditions, craftsmen and small ones would be able to obtain a business space. However, the amendments to the law provided for the government to adopt a regulation on how we will technically implement it. Two years later, the government didn't make a regulation about it. What's completely safe through the "Quick" programme quickly took advantage of the opportunity of the men who founded the companies, left the former in the blockade, and resulted in 12 billion kunas of new recorded blockades in FINA. Yesterday I said tax collectors this year get 120 million kuna incentives. At first glance, a lot. But only four kilometers of road in... in Zadar or 1 km of road towards Macel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the worst part is that we lift the Agency's powers for a small economy that has stood, which should be given a chance after a few years. We're removing the powers of an intermediary between the state and the entrepreneurs, so if we go back to these unfortunate drivers then the entrepreneurs will still be in a difficult position because there's Calmet's a driver in prison so another link between the state and the entrepreneur is missing. It may be a rescue solution that we have suggested that Minister Vukelic be the chairman of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board in HAMAG, so he will probably also create new programmes. He'll probably hire outside consultants, because he hasn't actually been on any board of directors in two years. All in all this bill amending the law deserves a third reading because it takes us a few steps back. We've lifted the credit lines, and no one here has challenged it. They don't exist with the county anymore. Instead of 400 zones for a small economy, we'll have them below 300 this year. Only if we don't get to 400 by the end of the term in a few months. In other words, the amendment of this law will bring nothing new. It won't bring anything incentivizing. It will only bring about changes in statistics. And the entrepreneur is tired of being the subject of statistics. He wants to be a driver of development. He proved he could do it because 100 thousand new jobs were opened. But unfortunately, this law and other activities do not allow it to create its own destiny. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89111	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations by a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89112	In his speech, the esteemed colleague said that there is a left and right truth that is not true. There's only one truth. And she says that in three years his mandate has opened up 20 new entrepreneurship zones. And the inheritance is 180, that's right. But new ones, new ones open 20 in three years. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89113	Second correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89114	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's because we talk about entrepreneurs all the time. It's not true that the entrepreneur is just the result of the statistics. He says: Tired of being the result of statistics. Entrepreneurs are really working and working hard, hiring people, and that's what fellow Pecek, a fellow Pecek, is worried that it's going pretty well now. However, as for the link between entrepreneurs and the state, we had the opportunity, it is not true that Kalmet's driver is quite a link, but we did have a very good link between HSS president and state, the president of HSS as an entrepreneur and state, which unfortunately, counterpart Bajic did not see yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89115	Five-minute debate of club IDS respected representative Valter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89116	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the end of this debate that I have to say was unexpectedly interesting, so in the debate on the promotion of a small economy, we went all the way to the story about, I don't know the Ustashas and the Partisans and so on, I have to say on behalf of the IDS Club that it seems to us and, on behalf of the Club, that this topic should not be a topic of political entanglement, but one topic on which we should really try to reach a consensus as it was done in countries that we often say we should see, that they are an example of how the economy is developed, what attention is paid to the small and medium economy. And I said yesterday there's often an example of Ireland, but in Ireland you know these bickerings about this issue are gone. And I think it would be good if we really tried to put our heads together here because this topic depends on the fate of Croatian citizens, depending on how much together we will be in power in this House, we are in opposition to how much together in our local, regional environments we will manage to create a better life for our citizens in a country that today has about 17% of the unemployed. Where we have 11 counties with over 20% unemployment rates, which reach over 30% in some counties. And these are very, very serious things. That's what I'm telling you as a party representative from the region of Istria who I'm not going to say doesn't have much less problems in that sense, from a region that's been with its '95 programmes. She was able to create a lot of things that gave her results. I said yesterday over 600 million kunas of small loans to small entrepreneurs, over 560 programs, and I believe once again that these experiences can be transferred to Croatia if someone wants to. So far I've been saying it hasn't been much of an interest. I had a meeting with Istrian craftsmen the other day from which it is clear that these people need help, they need incentives both countries and regions and cities and municipalities, aid that is not political, which is not politicised, but help that must be really economically based on programmes, on what our economies, our small economies need. And I'm appealing from this pay phone on behalf of the IDS Club to really try to finally get to a national program like Ireland does. I keep repeating Ireland even though there are other countries that we can tell the national economic development programme that we will all stick to no matter what government it is. The only real instrument to implement this is decentralisation. The only real instrument is that these programmes are implemented locally and at regional level where people know best the opportunities and know best in which direction, in which activities should be assisted because Croatia is not the same, is not the same situation in Istria, Dalmatia, Slavonia or elsewhere, and everyone in its midst knows what is best for its economy and its end. Because at the end of the day, the fate of the government of all depends very much on economic programs and let us put into the hands of those people who manage, who have gained confidence in the elections that these programmes can also be implemented on their own. The IDS advocates, we support this law even though we do not think it is ideal but we look more at it in terms of harmonising with the rules that apply in the European Union and we think that, as in other segments, the approximation of the European Union and Croatia should be very much. But we appeal to finally create a national development programme and then we all stick to it and give it more support than we've ever done to our economy, especially this segment of the small economy, and it should be acknowledged that when I think about it, and I've been dealing with it since '95. That we have achieved some results in these twelve years, however, no matter how much we want to or don't want to admit it to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89117	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89118	Thank you very much. It bothered me that my colleague Drandic was constantly repeating the story of the territorial structure of the Croatian state pointing out the region which is not true. The Croatian state is set up in the state, county, cities and municipalities and insults me to the notion of the Melt region in Dalmatia and to me there is only Zadar County or other counties that are set up including Istria as a county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89119	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Valter Drandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89120	The breach of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure is contrary to the Constitution. Today we have a local, regional self-government perimeter. Therefore, regional self-government exists and the counties are units of regional or regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89121	Comrade Drandić, if you point out that something is contrary to the Constitution, then it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then it's your thinking of whether it's something, whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not. Five minutes of debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89122	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honored representatives of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. The burning debate that was related to small entrepreneurship is certainly useful and the resolution ministry will certainly give new guidelines for the development of this I will not say the most important, but certainly one of the most important parts of the Croatian economy. We've been dealing with countless data here, and indeed, the one who listened or watched must be confused that there may be two truths in the same thing. I therefore refer to the website of the Ministry of Economy and the Department of Statistics where the data that has been verified is indeed true because there is no development of small entrepreneurship without data. Namely, the data shows where to go, in which direction has not been quite done, and I regret in this regard that the Government's representative did not exercise her right and, in the case of misinformation, came out for this speaker, that allows the Rules of Procedure to do so, and resolved the debate in advance, not to argue with different figures on the same data. So now I'm not going to talk a lot about the data here so it doesn't say it's another right-wing truth, but I'd say just the next one. This government of course learned from the mistakes of the previous one, as the previous one learned from the mistakes of the one behind. Well, when we bring out bad data from the last government, we don't mean to say you were bad, but to say where we were headed. And when we worked on the small economy pre-election programme as one of the cornerstones of Croatia's development in total, then of course we analysed the European Union, successful countries primarily Ireland, but also our results in the period of coalition government. We've seen a few big holes to say so under quotes. For example, entrepreneurship zones have been opened mainly in those districts that are developed and in which entrepreneurship zones need them. But they were a dry circle for those counties that had poor employment and had no economic development. For example, we found a very respectable number of entrepreneurship zones in Varazdin County, in Primorje-goranska, Istria. But the smallest number of entrepreneurship zones in Brod-Posavia, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijem. In Lika-Senjska, only one economic zone was in 2004 and at the very beginning. Whose oversight that is is less important. It is important that we have seen this and that we have started to open and encourage entrepreneurship zones precisely in these counties that we consider counties of weaker economic development so that we have insisted and opened the largest number of entrepreneurship zones precisely in Sisak-Moslavina, Lika-Senj County. There are over 200 ha of total surface area in Sisak-Moslavina. In Sisak-Moslavina and Lika-Senjska, then in Brod-Posavina, etc. What I would like to point out is that the task force that analyzed the situation at the time saw that there was also a large number of unused funds. 30 to 40% of all the funds that the government then allocated to small entrepreneurship were not used because of high interest, due to the lack of guarantees from entrepreneurs, so we have made big steps here. We've been used now over 96%. So we learn from the mistakes of others as in one 10-year time, another will learn from our mistakes. What should still be said is that the Ministry of Economy introduced strict criteria of definition to contain an entrepreneurial zone which was not and ultimately opened a whole series of projects. I'll just say the projects from 2006 and 2007. These are the financing of the promotion of entrepreneurship, which is very important in the phase of development. The consequence of this is that from 3 to 8 entrepreneurs per year on 100 inhabitants, which is very important education, which is also being strengthened by these amendments to the Law, so they are not as irrelevant as some colleagues said, financing competitiveness, lending to entrepreneurship itself, cooperatives, projects of small entrepreneurs with the European Union we have introduced and are going well forward and at the end of the craftsmanship on which there has been little talk here, which is a significant cornerstone of Croatia's economic takeoff is also a special item of the Ministry of Economy. What the small economy should conclude is participating in gross national income with 55%. This is not enough because more than 60% of European Union countries are participating. So, both in front of this government and in front of the future government, there are great challenges and tasks to further stimulate this branch of the economy, even more subsidized and even more regulated by existing laws, the more little entrepreneurship now participates with 27% in exports, and more than 40% should be achieved. And in conclusion, I think, although there were dissonant voices and various data that the ministry's presidents would draw conclusions that the government should continue on the way and, of course, on the basis of statistical indicators, correct them where they are weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89123	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89124	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hebrang, it's incorrect that you can see data on the website of the ministry. You can see the data from 2004, but as a snake's foot, the data is being hidden until 2004 because then you and everyone else could see that there was a government report, and there was a fact that there was 188 business zones in that period. Then we could see that 4 and a half billion loans were realised, that there were over 40 entrepreneurship centres, etc., etc. History begins with you, there was nothing before, and it's supposed to be some new Croatian new deal. Well, I'm quite certain that this new deal won't result in 400 zones, for example. by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89125	Final review, State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89126	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I have to admit that I found it very difficult to get into your discussions because you've been dealing with some information or semi-information and there's been a lot of comments that haven't been directly related to the motion to amend this law. As these are said to be changes to the law, this is not a new law, but only changes to the existing law in order to align the definition in selecting criteria for the distinction between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Small Economy Encouragement Act, which was passed in 2002, is a good law, and it exactly provides a broad enough framework that follows all 10 principles of the European Charter for Small and Medium Entrepreneurship and also the Lisbon Adjenda, which the fellow parliamentary representative spoke of. So the law provides a broad enough framework for four-year programmes to be adopted on the basis of it, as well as operational incentive programmes and measures to be adopted on an annual basis. I must also point out that the foundation of the government's programme to promote small and medium-sized entrepreneurship from 2004 to 2008 has only been granted by the Ministry of Economy by 9,000 551 support to entrepreneurs of nearly 400 million kuna. As for the lending projects Mr. Pecek said that, Mr. Pecek pointed out that this government has no lending programmes and that they have stopped, which is not true. Since 2004, the economy ministry has implemented a programme of local development projects since the beginning of 2004 and on 31 December total credit potential amounted to 5 billion kuna. By 31 December 2006, the county commissions had approved and sent 5 thousand 252 requests to banks worth 6 billion 325 thousand kuna, and 3 thousand 515 applications amounting to 3 billion 734 million kuna were approved in banks. To point out from 2001 to 2003, according to the credit line, the entrepreneur used 2 billion, the credit potential of 2 billion 297 thousand and 471 kuna, an average of 500 thousand kuna per credit line, while the credit lines carried out by this ministry are by, the average per individual entrepreneur was one million and 70 thousand kuna. I must also inform you that next week, a new credit line is being signed with the counties and banks and a new project is being launched by the local, guarantee instruments that will enable the granting of guarantees to entrepreneurs at local level, as already done by the Istrian Development Agency and, say, the Varazdin County also launched the project, the ministry will be involved with additional funds to increase the fund. I must say, as far as "Hamaga" is concerned, Honorable Representative Pacek said that the Croatian Agency for a small economy does not have any activity. However, I must point out that the Croatian Agency for a small economy is actively issuing guarantees and has issued over a three-year period worth 311 million kuna of approved guarantees, which has enabled the realisation of an investment of more than 730 million kuna. The Croatian Small Economy Agency also implements, operationally implements projects, programmes of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. As far as co-financing was concerned, there was a lot of talk and a lot of debate on the one hand, on the other and on the third hand. I must point out when we talk about the very amounts that the former ministry has co-financed 84 million kuna in the period 2001 to 2003, so it invested for those 4 years in the entrepreneurial zones that this government has achieved in almost one year alone. In 2004, 54 million kunas were spent from the Ministry of Co-financing of the Zone, in 2005. 90 million 852 thousand kuna, 2006 92 million 484 thousand kuna, and the same amount is foreseen for co-financing of entrepreneurship zones this year. The comment was also to exclude measures to encourage employment. There's nothing to rule out. In Article 6, you can see in point 7, so one of the support is to provide support for increased employment, vocational education and retraining and qualifications. What is changing is that they are not determined in the law by percentages, because the percentages are determined by the State aid Act and active and preventive employment measures and as such cannot be in three different laws, defined by three different percentages because this is totally confusing for our entrepreneurs and cannot be adequately monitored. As regards the functioning of HAMAG and the allocation of land intended to mean that HAMAG can assign land to entrepreneurs or premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, this so far has not been operationally implemented because HAMAG cannot manage property owned by the Republic of Croatia, since it is subject to the Law on the rental and sale of business space and the Internal Design Regulation of the Central State Property Management Office which conducts these tasks and would not be adequate to grant different institutions land under different laws. Here, we've listened to all your suggestions. We have received an amendment from the Parliamentary Legislative Committee, which we fully accept to some of the nomotechnical changes. And the amendment that we received today from Mr. Pecek will show up tomorrow at the vote. I am particularly glad that most of the clubs and that most of the MPs have accepted and supported this law. Here, on behalf of the promoter, I thank everyone for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89127	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89128	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State! It wasn't getting in here, it was arguing here. And you, according to the Rules of Procedure, should have been involved in the debate with facts, neither left nor right, but true ones. It's your sacred duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89129	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89130	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct the fifth-time wrong allegations about the amounts of loans that have been realised and about the number of zones. My colleague is talking about... The former ministry had eight credit lines and colleagues, then you're talking about the realization of all eight and not just the credit line of entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we should know. Second. You inherited a good product. You inherited the Small Economy Act, you inherited the Small Economy Development Program, you inherited the credit lines, you inherited the zones, you inherited a lot of it. That was supposed to come up with. That should've been put on your feet. And the results of the implementation were supposed to be... Someone's playing with the microphone again. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And you didn't deny me. You haven't signed a credit line with any of the county entrepreneurs this year. That's what you said yourself. So I don't know what you've denied. And there'll be new credit lines, so we'll see when. But it will be microcredit lines, not credit lines that could provide momentum in entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89131	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on this final bill of law... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! At 13:30, may I have your attention, please? In 13:30 the Croatian Parliament will be addressed by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Jušenko, on my call. And I'm asking the MPs and the MPs to be in the hall for the sake of everything to be all right. 13 and 15. At 13 and 15, they'll be representatives in the hall. Now we'll interrupt the session to prepare the hall. And we'll continue to discuss the Arms Act at 15:30. 15 and 30. Final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HSS. State Secretary Vera Babic. Here you go. In relation to the Legislative Committee, amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89133	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89134	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89135	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89136	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89137	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89138	It becomes an integral part of the law. It's an amendment to the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89139	The government does not accept Mr. President this amendment. In particular, small-scale operators are natural and legal persons who carry out the authorised activities independently and permanently in order to obtain income or income on the market. Therefore, a small economy is a summary concept and covers both trades, cooperatives, small, medium-sized companies and other forms of entrepreneurship, as well as family farms whether they are in the VAT system or not. And we therefore believe that the bill is already contained in the laws' decisions themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89140	Proposing representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89141	Thank you. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-30-0.u89142	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 12 abstentions and 1 against the proposed law.
