ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82667	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the debate session - The final draft law on confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens (IDABC), the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 616. Proposer is Government, emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Information, Information and Media. Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office for E-Croatian Dijana Simic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82668	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the proposal for a law on confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a Community programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens or shorter IDBCs. This Memorandum of Understanding is a legal basis that allows the Republic of Croatia to participate in activities under the IDBC community programme. At its meeting on 5 April 2006, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding, and the memorandum was signed by the Republic of Croatia in September 2006, and in October by the European Commission. The very memorandum of understanding does not require the adoption of new or amendments to existing laws. However, since it is financially binding on the Republic of Croatia to pay annual financial contributions, it is subject to Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is confirmed in the Assembly. Therefore, before you and this Proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act is a proposal in an emergency procedure. The text of the law itself is as standard as the wording of the memorandum of understanding. So perhaps I would look a little more at the IDBC programme itself for the reasons why we want to participate in it and our financial support for that programme. The objective of the IDBC programme itself is to enable the countries involved in it, to establish an interoperable exchange of data between public administrations, entrepreneurs in the countries involved and citizens. By participating in this programme itself, we will be able to establish such information systems at the moment of such standards in the development of our information systems which will have to exchange data with both the European Commission and the Member States in the future which will be able to prepare data in the form that the European Community systems require. But apart from the fact itself, this programme also has a whole series of horizontal activities within which we have access to various European Community resources. One of the important such resources is the secure network of TSTS information systems through which electronic data exchanges are enabled, which are classified by a label limited at European Union level. In addition, we will also have access to certain solutions prepared in the open source funded by the European Commission and which Member States of the European Union and countries participating in the IDBC programme can benefit free of charge with the support of the European Commission. As regards our financial contributions for 2006, it will be fully funded by EU funds while membership fees for 2007, 2008 and 2009 will be co-financed by the European Funds of 70% with the budget being planned for 2007 in the state budget, and for 2008 and 2009 are planned for the budget projection by 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82669	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82670	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In fact, the confirmation of this memorandum is part of the process that followed after the European Council decided in June 2004 that the Croatian State is a candidate and that accession procedure should be launched. The Memorandum is in fact a continuation of the framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, according to the community's general principles of participation in Community problems where specific conditions for participation are foreseen. Of course, this form involves, above all, a financial contribution that is set out as part of the memos as it is said here today in front of the promoter. I would dare say that after winning the Homeland War and the overall integration of Croatian territory, it is certain that accession to the European Union is the most important project of this government. Today, here in Parliament, we're actually talking about upgrades, processes, electronic communication. This is a sign that the negotiation process is actually at that final stage because we're talking about harmonisation, we're talking about communication, we're talking about the need to protect data collapsing. So we can say that this is actually a quality upgrade of the process of accession, negotiation and integration. This program, as short as the IDBC says, is one support. The government supported him in April, and the Republic of Croatia signed him last October. Therefore, this law confirms a memorandum on the exchange of international agreements, principles, deadlines and conditions for participation. When we talk about funding in the area from 2007 to 2009, the amount of funds is ranging from 760 to 900,000 kuna, where 70% will be financed from the European Union funds. On the other hand, at the position of the state budget for this year, 230 000 kuna is secured, meaning for 530 000 kuna, is secured from the European Union funds. As I said, this programme would be more than clearly successful, it is necessary to run it safely, i.e. the Central Office for E-Croatia, or the Government itself will have to take care to implement this successfully in a number of ways. First of all, the implementation process as announced here as regards the harmonisation of hardware, in harmonising firewalls, so security measures from the aspect of communication should be a plan that is detailed in any case. And the aim of this memo should not only be a mere law that will ensure that information is collated in any form but should, in fact, be addressed when it comes to the colluding of information between the state administration and citizens of the European Union in Croatia and vice versa, that it is always aimed at competitiveness. So the position regardless of whether an individual, whether society, is a legal person so that in some way and after it means obtaining full membership... have been prepared in terms of quality-collecting state administration information in any sense, therefore, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I expect and hope that this plan is consistently divided over time and that it will be implemented successfully. When we talk about communication, I think it's really important. And I believe successful communication is a prerequisite for any means of implementation of the strategy. Well, in this case, I would say that it is also an important segment when we speak in the accession of the European Union, and if we consider it to be the roofstone of this strategy. We can say that research has also shown that some of the projects fail, so we're talking about major global transition or corporate research that in most cases some strategies fail unless communication is successful. Therefore, this law provides for the basis of one whole large project. It is particularly responsible for the Central Office of e-Croatia that such knowledge that it will receive on committees or expert groups to be sufficient I would say wisdom, knowledge and courage to convey this knowledge in a horizontal way to other members, that, in any case, I would say in this vertical from the Government to all central offices, actually to every member of this team who will communicate with the state administration. In fact, I would dare say that there will be a strategic issue number one in this project so that not only will information that would be meant to itself, to acquire quality people. In this project these are the people who said I'd have the virtue of turning my weaknesses I'd say to the advantage. These are people with a global knowledge passport, and I expect first of all that the secretary of state of this office will have the courage to involve such people in this project, whether they are secured by this budget or not. And the HDZ Club will surely support this law from that point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82671	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82672	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. So by starting accession negotiations with the European Union not only at the level of harmonisation of legislation but at the level of harmonisation and action of institutions and practices, Croatia has so far signed a large number of memorandums on understanding in various areas which it has tried to establish as close and uniformly relations in terms of action in Croatia as regards the countries of the European Union. It is unquestionable that such memos that sort of coordinate mutual actions are welcome, that they are necessary for the full involvement of the Republic of Croatia in the constitutional legal meeting of the European Union. But what about this law and the laws so far when it comes to confirming the memos should in some ways be discussed is usually completely mundane in such drafts of the law. Because in what way is the effectiveness of these opportunities that we, by accepting this memo today, open to our economy, to our citizens, in this case to the public administration as a very important segment in a society in which they are implemented. In what other words do we have a relative opportunity at this time as a Member State to use financial resources to support and strengthen public administration and strengthen society in general and strengthen the economy, in what way and in what way does our economy, our citizens, benefit from our public administration? And have we done enough besides these principled and welcome proposals like this, do we actually have the system of action that will be said today in 2007 we have succeeded in that part, and in that part we have failed. Namely, what is the extent of the use of the funds that the Republic of Croatia through civil society through a system of public administration, through local, regional and regional self-government, participates in participation, in the use of such funds? In fact, what's going on a little bit in a way? In each variant, as well as in this, the financial contribution that the Republic of Croatia can make is very clear and precise. He's about that much and that much. I agree with him at this point as far as this particular bill is concerned, and it's not big. But our financial resources and obligations are very clear and precise. In some ways, it should examine what reciprocity is in terms of the use of drawn assets, the rights to be drawn, the possibility that the public administration system has used in this case as the subject of this bill. In other words, we seem to pay insufficient attention to the realisation of these good laws as to how the resources available to us can be realised. I think that there is also a public administration, but also in local self-government units, there is this one legal, logistic infrastructure that should run especially at these lower levels of how to get information on how to engage through these programmes to get either the valorisation of knowledge, information, financial resources or anything else. So these memoranda seem rather dry when you read them like this and it's very difficult to figure out how to more precisely determine the interests or how to run that wider infrastructure to act in the direction of this law. In other words, will we say in 2 years' time that we have made a step at the level of what this law provides or we will only say this as many other materials have been harmonised and we have understanding, but we have no confirmation in life that this has contributed to a better understanding, empowerment of the Croatian public administration, strengthening through these precisely providing these electronic services to public authorities. Therefore, of course against this bill cannot be, there is no need for that, but I would call on the government to just launch the second lever that is necessary to open such opportunities and not only to talk that this is an exceptional perspective, because when the perspective lasts too long then it ceases to be a perspective. Therefore, with the support of this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding, I think it would be good if we now had a large number of such memos, a large number of opportunities to open a very specific debate or to get one demonstration of what such laws of understanding in nature have contributed to the relationship in society from public administration to central government and how they have improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82673	Thank you. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82674	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow only a few notes with this memo. Firstly, the fact is that we have already signed this memorandum and that we are actually waiting for the European Commission to do so. Secondly, the fact is that it is actually a community programme which is designed to support the development of a data exchange system and improve communication between national systems, electronic administrations, programme members and others, which is particularly important, which would result in or improve the provision of cross-border services to the public administration, other public authorities in the Republic of Croatia and the state administrations of the Member States of the European Union. So, starting with this basic goal and the task that has been outlined, several questions are now being asked. It is obvious that this should ensure full equality between the Republic of Croatia and the members of the European Union on the issue which should lead to the establishment and improvement of the provision of cross-border services between the state administration and other public authorities on both sides of the Republic of Croatia and vice versa. Now you see in such a situation the first question of article 5 is raised. It is stated in Article 5(2), first in paragraph 1, that this Memorandum of Understanding applies during the duration of the programme and now in paragraph 2, if the European Community decides to extend the duration without any significant changes then this project will continue unless the Republic of Croatia cancels within 30 days, but we cannot decide that this part can continue. I think it was necessary to create an automation that protects the full subjective position of equality between one and the other, that if 30 days before this deadline, the memorandum and this programme are not cancelled and in such a situation, of course, this memo will continue or be automatically renewed. The second issue should in particular be referred to in Article 4 first paragraph 3 where it is said that representatives of the Commission or other persons authorised by the Commission will have appropriate access to documents as well as any other information to carry out such audits, including those in electronic form. This right of access will be explicitly stated in the contracts concluded for the implementation of the instruments referred to in this Memorandum. We have taken the obligation here in advance to allow, in fact, representatives of the commission or other auditors who are authorized independently of our laws, among other things, to access information and the Data Protection Act, we will practically have to allow that, in accordance with this contract, to enter into all the databases and get all the database data and in that position that they will have practically as a state body related to management in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is a bit of an unusual formulation, because it was necessary to make sure, however, that such bodies can, in cooperation with the authorities of the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia and the auditors together and not independently, do so on their own, and in this respect, it is very difficult then to reach a position to ensure the protection of personal data or parent data, for example, by companies and other legal persons who will be used or whose data will be sought by the representatives of the Commission, or by auditors who will go in this regard. If this is accompanied by paragraph 2 of the same Article 4 which explicitly states that, in accordance with the regulations as well as other rules referred to in this Memorandum of Understanding, contracts are concluded on the users of the foundation programme and in Croatia, they may enter into financial and other audits on the basis of the document and on the spot which the representatives of the Commission and other persons who can exercise the powers of the Commission at any time... Now you see, there remains a fundamental question. This Memorandum and the Law state that an integral part of this Memorandum is one, and this Regulation to which it is called here is not an integral part of this document. That's number one. And number two. It should make it a fact that we are not yet a member of the European Union by which the regulations would oblige us, we should not have to bring them into their legal order, even if it is in a way... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] In this way, when we say that regulations will apply, we consciously ignore the fact, and constitutional positions under the Constitution, of course, a memorandum that we ratified in accordance with the Constitution, etc. is above the legal rule. In such a situation, we also raise these regulations above the laws within the Republic of Croatia even though we did not convalitate them with this law and bring them into law next to the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these very serious issues are more so than they give such a position in concrete projects related to specific contracts, firstly obliges the Republic of Croatia to provide such a position to the representatives of the International Community, i.e. the European Community and second, give them a position which is actually stronger than the position of the state executive bodies of the Government and the administration of the Republic of Croatia because they are limited by our domestic legislation regarding... and access to information and related to the Data Protection Act which, of course, this memorandum will not apply because this memorandum will be above the Data Protection Act that matters here. It is therefore very serious issues, and in such a situation it is therefore questionable whether we should adopt this text at all. Why? I know it was used as a rule in the form applied in the European Union. I know it's not usually going to happen in practice, but it doesn't rule out such a possibility, and that's why it should be kept in mind what's being signed, what's being offered and what's being served. For example, if you take, for example, fishing data related to a protected fishing-ecological belt, if you take data on, I don't know, mineral raw materials, about the underground reserves of thermal or drinking water, etc., or I don't know, ores, oil and so on, then we'll have to give all these data to the auditors in an appropriate manner or commission and so on, as well as other data that you can lyse as it says here. Therefore, those administrations, i.e. legal persons who have public authority and who have the right to benefit from the leaders of the European Union if they so request, etc., and receive. If we are not able to give it, then they have to ask the European Commission, or the auditors who have authorized it in accordance with such a contract, and the contract that we are going to have to do for a particular project, we will not be able to avoid putting it into a contract, since we have here provided that this contract will have to be entered into, and this one, I say, regulation when it comes into force will be above the legal force of our legislation, that is, our domestic laws. That's why I'm warning you of this fact, and in this law, I will personally be restrained about his, about voting for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82675	Thank you. Final review of Deputy Secretary of State of the Central Office for E-Croatian Dijana Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82676	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'd just look back at some of the remarks. First of all, I think that the most important of these remarks is in Articles 4 and 5. The law. Article 4 refers to the reporting and evaluation of the implementation of individual projects under the IDABC programme. And primarily refers to the financial aspect of the implementation of these programmes. In view of the decision on the programme itself, on the basis of which this Memorandum was signed and on what the IDABC Decision covered by the programme itself and the work programmes adopted by the Council of the Programme, at no time can Article 4 relate to any database we would have had in the Republic of Croatia, nor could it refer to any other data in our public administration. This article concerns the financial audit and concerns the revision of the implementation of the projects themselves. Furthermore, the European Commission is also bound by directives governing the protection of personal data as well as by our Personal Data Protection Act in accordance with this Directive so that there is absolutely no concern in that part. As regards Article 5(2), the memorandum will be automatically extended if no party cancels it within a month of the decision being taken. So we are here in a completely symmetrical and even relationship with the European Commission. I might just look back a little bit more on the other comments. First of all, I would like to emphasise that, indeed, this programme is a programme that definitely allows our private entrepreneurship to achieve a more competitive position in the European Union. One of the major projects implemented under the IDABC programme is also the definition of standards for data exchange and standards for the establishment of electronic public procurement systems. According to the I2010 initiative by 2010, the European Commission should, the Member States of the European Union, have an obligation to publish all their public procurement electronically and carry out 50% of these purchases by electronic means. In order for us to be able to participate, it is essential that our entrepreneurs participate in these public procurements that the Republic of Croatia be able to provide electronic documents that they will be able to prove their ability to participate in such electronic public procurements. In order for us to do so, we must already participate in the process of adopting these standards because otherwise we will always be late in the implementation of our systems for those who adopt such standards. So by participating in this programme, we allow the Republic of Croatia to be familiar with what is happening from the very moment of such standards and not to waste a year, 2, 3 for what is happening in Europe, but to do it simultaneously with Europe. As we did in a whole series of programs that our office started both initiatives and before it was launched by Europe itself, such as. The National Information Security Programme, such as "one stop shop" or "Hritro.hr" office, where Europe launched similar initiatives even at Member State level after our initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82677	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Vice-President of the House, representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82678	This is an important issue, and for this reason I must correct the alleged, incorrect claim concerning the interpretation of Article 2, paragraph 3. I would particularly like to point out that it said: "Commission representatives or other persons authorised by the Commission will have appropriate access to documents as well as any other information to carry out such an audit, including those in electronic form". This right of access will be explicitly stated in the contracts concluded for the implementation of the instruments, etc., by referring to the transactions in Article 1(2). Therefore, among other things, the provisions and conditions applicable to the submission of evaluations and the selection of applications by these institutions, organisations and individuals from Croatia who have the right to compete will be the same as those checked in the institutions, organisations and individuals from the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, in every public tender, every public advertisement when legal persons from the European Union appear will have the right to request all data, insight into all documents and all information concerning them, including these... and about which I spoke and concerning the protection of the sea and the land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82679	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme on the interoperable provision of European cross-border electronic services to public authorities, public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82682	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the debate was held in the first reading, the Government also addressed the second reading Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Handover of Authorities, which aims to achieve 3 very important goals. One is stabilising local political opportunities in the timing of regular local elections in order to regulate rules that apply to the handover of government at national level and to the level of local self-government and regional self-government. Furthermore, this Law also wants us to implement a programme against corruption. Unfortunately, in the perception of corruption in Croatia, the units of local self-government and the units of the district self-government have been highly evaluated, so we believe that this Law will ensure and, in that sense, contribute to the absence of corruption at that delicate moment from the call for elections to the formation of a new government that the funds of the local budget are spent irrationally and illegally, therefore, by public means. The third objective that we wish to achieve by this Law is clear and unequivocally regulated which duties are required to mandate the Government in the context of the new Civil Service Act when a number of positions will now become official posts. Therefore, Article 5 clearly and unequivocally reiterates and points out that all current ministerial assistants, all ministry secretaries, deputy government secretaries, deputy state secretaries, all of them will put the government's mandate at their disposal, the government will post a public tender after the election, and will fill in these jobs according to the model of official job filling because these jobs in the state administration become official, except for the jobs of the ministerial assistants who are being abolished and in the new system, they will be directors of the administration as usual in the countries of our environment. We didn't postpone depolitisation for the post-election period. We have largely implemented the Law on civil servants in terms of depolitisation. I would especially point out the establishment of a Committee on State Services. It is a very important body that resolves complaints against solutions made by ministers. We left the system earlier which was in its construction paradoxal in order to counter the Minister's first-degree solution, the minister also decided in the second-degree, and now against the Secretary of Appeal's solution can be submitted to the independent and professional body of the Committee on State Service, which works in a legitimate manner. We believe that this will achieve greater protection of official rights, and also if it does not fully eliminate the claims to the Administrative Court, and then significantly reduce. I ask the representatives to support the adoption of this law because we believe that this is a significant step forward in order to achieve the three important goals we have set ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82683	Thank you. The Legislative Committee, the Constitution? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82684	Mr. President, state secretary just leaving, colleagues from the Central State Office that you're staying. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Handover of Authorities Procedure. We believe that the Law is despite the fact that we are witnessing a general and overall development and state institutions and regardless of the fact that we are witnessing one and more important and cultural and democratic and political level of dialogue in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that Croatia needs to have such a law. What does this Law most important change? Orders shall be introduced and rules governing the process of handing over state authorities and executive powers to units of local, regional and regional self-government shall be laid down. What does that mean? This means when a change of government comes after the elections made in the area of the municipality, the city and the county, when a different coalition comes in relation to one that until then was in power that according to this law it is necessary to make the authorities into a civilized, in one way where there will be no calling, where there will be no obstruction, where there will be no planting, where someone from some drawer will not take out some compromising thing, some kind of contract that will commit it tomorrow. This means that the handover is carried out in one way the best for that unit of local or regional and regional self-government so that it can function further. It is therefore particularly important for this Article 10a, which now provides for the transfer of executive powers to the municipal chief, mayor and mayor that they are obliged to submit a written report on the performance of the business in their work. What does this report contain? This means that those who come after the elections have to submit a report to their colleagues where all the data and information on planned projects, measures and other planned activities will be on the start of and unfinished projects, measures and other unfinished activities and on the assumed and outstanding obligations of the unit of local and regional self-government. Although it is to expect that the coming person is naturally informed and informed and that he knows in what state the municipalities and counties and the city is, however, one formal act, one formal document in which the former chief, the mayor, reports in writing where the municipality has started and these projects, and these projects should continue, the municipality has concluded contracts that are due to be charged then and then, in these and these amounts, and this is a very correct document based on which he who is coming knows those obligations that will be made in the future. Indeed, it would be incorrect for one who came to him to get a document, and after two months he saw that the municipality was in charge of what amount. So that's the formal side of it. What is important in the process of handing over authorities are these restrictions that are prescribed means for the end of the term of office itself, which is for the period since the elections were called, for the period when elections are held and for the period when the leaders are appointed, means new local self-government. This law therefore provides for certain restrictions in Article 10c, which are related to the conclusion of relevant commercial transactions, so it is said that contracts whose individual value is greater than 0,5 % of the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government, i.e. up to 1 million kuna, cannot be concluded, by not exceeding 1/12 of the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. This is a very important provision, although democratic and political culture would suggest that if the election is already the end of the mandate, if elections are approaching, not to enter into some big business where it would lead to a situation where some programs are opened, some contracts to come together that would have an important impact on the construction, on the implementation of the budget of that unit of local self-government. This means that the provision of Article 10c is prescribed that, before the end of the term of office, there is no major economic activity but that those projects and those jobs need to be slowly brought to an end, to carry out all those obligations that they are. And all future developments, of course, leave to those to whom citizens will trust in the regular elections. So it's a very, very important provision. The second provision, which is also important, concerns the ban on human change during this one transitional period. It would also not be correct when some end of the mandate comes, when the slow mandate comes out, and now, that the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, suddenly start hiring people close to themselves and leave it to whoever comes after them. Not in any way both political and democratic and certainly incorrect. And now the one who comes would have to come up with ways to fire these people, and this law provides that Article 10 C.E. is prohibited, except for certain duties whether, under the provisions of this law, the mandate is available. Also, what's very important, is what the secretary of state was talking about. Croatia has entered the process of depoliticalising the administration. As we've seen, we've got pretty good grades from... means the Committee on Foreign Policy of the European Parliament, which in the Report on Croatia's Progress in Negotiations, particularly praised this section of the depoliticalisation of the administration, which we have done to amend the law on the rights and obligations of officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As is known there, we said that Deputy Secretary of the Government, Secretary of the Ministry, Assistant Minister, Head of the Government's Office, are no longer officials. They're no longer officials under that law. You remember when these laws were in the process, there were objections that in this way we wanted to cement a state that is now and that in this way we wanted to protect the personnel that are meant to be in this last election cycle in this way placed on these functions. To resolve all these doubts, here today we have in this law in Article 5 that those persons who are in charge of the government's term of office after parliamentary elections, after the entry into force of this law found in the exercise of those duties, put a mandate for the exercise of office at the disposal of the Government. So, all those who have become ministerial assistants, who have thus been officials, are no longer by the terms of the law today, they are obliged to put a mandate at the disposal of the new government that will come after the new elections. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. We believe that he is a significant step in the development of the institutions of our society and we think that there really is nothing in this law that would be controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82685	Thank you. SDP club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82686	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! You see, unlike the HDZ Club, we will not support this bill and we cannot vote for it. First, the fact is that there is already a Law on the procedure of handing over authorities. Secondly, the fact is that these amendments and additions actually try to introduce privileged rights for one part of the current officials in relation to here, one large part of other officials who remain on the sidelines and, in such a situation, we actually believe that the equality of some officials and officials and officials would be questioned. Third, we believe that these officials under the current law are sufficiently protected and there is no reason why they are actually turning into civil servants. We would like to remind that under the current law of Article 8 it is said that an official who would not be appointed and who would not remain in office again has the right to schedule without invitation to tender for tasks and tasks corresponding to his professional preparation if, of course, he submits a request within 30 days. Or that the dismissed official, if he has come outside the administration, has the right to return to a trading company or institution in accordance with the contract which he has written, from which he has come, if he also submits a request within 30 days. So the question arises, why did the bill first define itself only to remove the Deputy Secretary of the Government, the secretary of the ministry from the line of officials? Watch out, the ministries that can have a couple of hundred not to speak and thousands of employees to whom he is head of administration, administrative organisation, then, assistant minister, head of the Government Office, etc. And remember, on the other hand, at the last session, we were raising these officials' salary. So, for example, what about the director of state administrations? Then why wouldn't they also have to get this status if they weren't government officials and continue to work as directors of management organisations? They remain to be required to make the term of office available, as referred to in Article 6(6). For example, a state treasurer or director of government agencies, etc., all of them must assume that there is a need for a higher degree of expertise in the performance of the work they perform than these duties. It is obvious, therefore, that a round of state officials is chosen to please, which is to be brought into a privileged position. According to us from the SDP without need, given the already existing provisions that are excellent and good, they protect well. Of course, in such a situation, it is very important to consider some other issues that are very important. We have serious remarks on among other 10a, 10b, 10c, 10d and 10e, which is the essence of these changes. First, let's start at the rank of these remarks that are important. If you'll excuse me, it's hard to explain to yourself and to anyone else what in Article 10.c of the local self-government unit can get more power in managing during this, let me put it this way between the constitution and the formation of a new executive power than the Government itself. Under the current law, it is quite nice and said and clearly what the Government can do during that period, what jobs can it do? And now the question is, what makes it even more here, and that part is tied except for this one. This final part of this Article 10c. Therefore, only in those cases where this would occur, not because of the failure to conclude the resulting contract, would cause significant material damage or if the conclusion of the contract is necessary in order to implement the law and so on. So it's covered in government everything. Yeah, but now you're asking the next question. In addition to this, what is added right to mayors and mayors a) that they can conclude contracts of up to a million kunas or 0.5% of the budget of local self-government units and, exceptionally, that the total value does not exceed 1/12 of the budget. Let's imagine it's a city in Zagreb that has six billion kunas. What's 1/12? Look, that's 500 million, that's 500 million kunas he can make contracts for and determine that part. Now look when you take the county congregations or the county, when you take the other cities where our county seats are big, rich and so on. This is actually relatively reduced and these are huge resources that allow one person to actually decide the more representative body is practically not working. The executive body, too. And in such a situation, we have very, very large reserves. We believe that a provision that would say that the non- conclusion of the contract causes significant material damage or if the conclusion of the contract is necessary in order to implement the law or to implement previously undertaken obligations. Or the completion of previously launched jobs that are supposed to be completed, to take office as the newly elected mayor. That this is quite enough because this is ultimately the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia plus, of course, that part of the regular maintenance of the plant and the minimum needs of the business in order to function in the headship and executive power. This is our first serious remark on Article 10c. Our second observation refers to Article 10.b where it is said and now you have a rule. And then immediately you have an exception that you're actually tearing down the whole rule in paragraph 1. Extraordinary municipal chief, mayor, mayor and so on, and headship may, in cases where necessary, ensure the smooth work of the administrative bodies of units of local and regional appointments of officials. They can practically do it whenever they want. When they think it's an exception. Here we have no objection to this exception being indicated. However, the law should lay down in that period what is considered to be of paramount importance in order, in order to, in order to appoint officials, to ensure the functioning of the minimum of jobs. Otherwise after that we will be in a position to have appointed officers actually who will then work for a long, long time. The same situation or even more serious is related to those duties around Article 10h, where it is said: "In the process, the handover of state authorities in units of local and regional, regional self-government is prohibited from human beings." Now, except for the duties to which the mandate is to be applied under the provisions of this law. And now that you take what are the duties to be made available in Article 6 you suddenly see that this is a very serious issue and in such a situation can actually happen that you can appoint a V.D. on these duties. Of course, in such a situation at the same time you have a second solution in mind, people who have the status of officials, and these are now those from which we delete as deputies, as State Secretarys and so on, they would be future, the truth not after these first elections. After the first elections, they would have to give a mandate for confidence. But in the future they would no longer be as officials, they are not even obliged to put a mandate at their disposal. They shall also be subject to the rules applicable to them, which shall be governed by official relations. So it's obvious that there's actually been an attempt here to protect a certain part of the administration and that in a way that it's actually privileged. They, those parts of the administration that are not only in law enforcement and regulations but also in fact a political, political administrative dimension. As regards Article 10a, we believe that the principle applicable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia should apply. It is totally unacceptable, among other things, in paragraph 2, i.e. in paragraph 3, to talk about a report that says among other things: "Planned projects, measures and other planned activities". Take care of this means actually giving a report on the former government programme and, or former, chieftains and chieftains, units of local self-government, or its party. That doesn't make any sense. Start projects, of course, and unfinished projects should be reported in order. The commitments made to the unsettled should also be reported. But now we're opening a fundamental question. Since we will have mayors and commissioners who are directly elected. Who will have their resolution bodies and their headship and so on, why does not the principle applicable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia apply there? And this is that the Government reports on fundamental issues as stated in Article 2 where the Government is obliged after the term of office to inform the new government of the state and problems in the performance of the affairs, and each member of the Government and here should say: "Not every member of the Government, but every member of the Head of Staff, to report in detail on the situation and problems in the area of the district which have been managed." Of course, "which they have managed," of course primarily taking care of these beginnings... projects, projects undertaken, outstanding commitments and the financial situation of their portfolio or part of what is important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So completely some things are in themselves set in a way that we think should be significantly, significantly improved. We believe that such solutions are not good, and in this regard we believe that, if we want to, then, apart from Deputy Secretary of the Government, Secretary of the Ministry, the assistant ministry would have to cover a much wider circle of officials in order to ensure full equality with the mandate. Or rather speaking about the abolition of their official, official status and translation into official status. And if that's what he wants, then we have to apply all the rules on the Law on Regiment and Employees from work relations to pay, rewards and compensation, and not to have a debt salary, privileges and powers, and when it comes to filing an account for the job you've done, then there's actually no status as an official. That's not what the SDP thinks is acceptable. We believe that proportionate rights and obligations must be monitored by every place and responsibility that comes from the function and the work that behaves for that duty, that is, for that person and for that... Here are our basic remarks, and for all these reasons, we cannot support this bill, and we do not think it would be good for this issue to be resolved in the election year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it will, in fact, happen if this changes power, and it's quite certain that it will happen anyway then either within the current coalition by changing the coalition partners or by performing in it the most likely new coalition authorities then, in such a situation, will actually be changed by this law. And another note you would explicitly like to point out. You know from this pay phone the secretary of state says that this law is, among other things, a major contribution to depoliticalization of the administration. Dear colleagues, we of the SDP Representatives Club are against keeping our heads in the sand. We're not the biggest bird racer. The other night we had the opportunity to publicly watch a debate in which a representative of the state administration, a representative of the State Inspectorate, ducked a state inspector as an expert, had to and should have participated in the interpretation and implementation of the law. Unfortunately, he has turned into a political rival who has conducted politics, which has discredited others, and now even that part of us can politically still suffer if he wants to deal with future politics. But there is no right for a state inspector to publicly support one party in working-law relations in a way that publicly discloses and publicly insults workers who are ill. He justified, among other anti-legal behaviours, between other forms and mobbings and other torturers that occur in our trading societies as an exception, he justified it among other things to employers because here the workers go to sick leave. Now the question is, does a sick man in this country have the right to go to sick leave? I'm sure none of the workers found themselves sick and sent themselves to sick leave. Therefore, there are professionals, therefore, there is a Health Insurance and Health Protection Act, and we believe from the SDP that such things actually speak completely contrary to the claim that we have a depolitisation of the administration and therefore, among other things, we would not be able to support such a law which would further protect such persons in functions that practically question not only administration as a foundation, from the aspect of fundamental principles, but also general relations between the executive and legislative authorities, and therefore we believe that this law should not now be passed, that its adoption should be delayed. At the same time, we believe that if the representatives of the executive authority who appointed the relevant state inspector listen to this debate and if they have listened to the debate at “Open” that they should initiate an appropriate procedure concerning the determination of his responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82687	Thank you. Comrade Arlovic, it is certain that there will be a change of government but you did not say when? Okay. That fence is very important. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82688	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we don't have Mr. Palaric. He went to the Uzi cabinet because he said in the morning the government, but it would be good if he stayed here to hear this debate. In fact, the Croatian Party's right club suggests that we still refer this law to third reading because it is evident that what this law wants to achieve as a goal means the law to regulate precisely the procedure for the transfer of power, does not hand over authorities because the handover and transfer are two different concepts. In fact, the transfer of power is a concept that we gave because in 2002, our Club of the Croatian Parties directed our rights into the procedure of passing that law because we saw all the situations happening at the state level from the government's transfer procedure to the level of municipalities, cities and counties. Unfortunately, what happened was that the law was not passed in time. Thus, it was not adopted during the last parliamentary elections so that there was no sign of a legal regulation that would regulate the transfer procedure, i.e. the handover of government at state level. That when we sent our proposal, then the government refused us, so it went with its own that they changed the name of the law and that all the solutions that were complete that meant the entire course was prescribed, precisely not accepted, and that is why we are now in this situation where we are. But I don't know why you haven't simulated solutions, if you'd simulated solutions, you'd see how far this law is missing and how much space remains for manipulations, and basically knowing us, we'll also create situations that irresponsible, responsible mayors, commissioners, are going to say Article 10c. not to be considered a restriction, but to be an obligation to spend more money in this period. You're forgetting one important thing, unlike the state. So, the rule is not to make a state budget, but to temporarily finance, and while cities, municipalities and county elections are in May and everyone has already passed budgets, everyone already has budgets. Now, knowing the situation in many cities and municipalities, let us take an example only of the City of Zagreb. His budget can grow up to 7 billion kuna, so that 1/12. So it's a new mind-blowing and stipulation of article 10c. This applies not to what has already been established obligations which have already been taken over by cities, municipalities and counties but to the period where this headship should be called the technical headship such as the technical government in the time from the vote to the establishment of the representative body, i.e. the Government of the Headship. They're going to do it now, so it's an iber compared to what they already have as their budget made. Now look, it means 580 million kuna for the City of Zagreb. It's huge money. So 580 million kuna. Now what's gonna happen here? There it will happen that perhaps many representative bodies will deliberately blow up their budget that will not be realistic and will bring it in so that they can use that part. Have you thought about that? Obviously, you haven't thought about it. If you'd thought about it, you wouldn't have sent a law like this into procedure. Now let's further simulate the application of these provisions. For example, Article 10 states what the report should contain. The report means it should, it says, contain and there are now 3 sub-items, 3 indents, neither is it specified nor is it specified. So it takes one full report. So, a full report that every area covered by the city, municipality and county that, in terms of commitments not only of money but also of other obligations, we know what all obligations can be made, that's particularly interesting from the state level. Obligations of various and international and other obligations that will come at a later stage. So such a single report should be complete, all areas should be covered. So all bodies within the municipalities, cities and counties should make their own summary of the report where they will draw up, give an assessment of the situation in their area not only from the aspect of commitments and financial and other commitments but also from the point of view of resolving the rights and obligations of Croatian citizens that are under way. There's nothing about it. And now look, you are predicting, he says, in article 10.f of the fine, the fine will be fined unless that report is filed, meaning for the violation of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor, and up to 30 thousand kuna. And until you've said within what time limit he has to file a report. You didn't say in which time he had to report and what was going to happen. It's filed, he didn't file a report, there's a request for a misdemeanor procedure, he's making a report, there's a report, I've made a report, and what's going to happen. Get a little simulation, come back in real terms what all these provisions will look like. Therefore, that deadline must be set. The deadline is, so it must be no later than a day or two from the establishment of a representative body, they must have prepared that report. Because it's possible that, let's say at local level, a representative body, normally, is known when it has to be built but it may not be at that first session to choose a new headship, meaning mayor, chieftain, members of the headship. So you have to define it in this because you didn't do anything then if you didn't determine that part. Now this part about the ban, it says, is human change. Now I'm the proponent of getting himself into a trap. In the process of handing over state authorities to local and regional self-government units, staff changes are prohibited except in the duties provided for. You know what you're gonna do now? You're going to make that variant that from the election, from the elections to the elections at the level of municipalities, cities and counties, we're going to keep increasing that administration. Why are we going to increase? For these provisions of yours. For these provisions of yours. Take just, say, the situation in the City of Zagreb we have the headmasters, but there are also deputy headmasters, so there are assistants, so assistant assistants and they are all sort of officials. And by mahogany, as Mr. Arlovic used to say here, we are not finally different from similarity. But all these things, we also saw the case of the state's chief inspector who performed like that, all this says that there must be no room for that policy. And there's got to be a waist. Now, this new government, for example in the City of Zagreb, these people will have to take care of all the appropriate places within the city administration and there will only be an increase in the city administration. It can be at the level of any municipality, at the level of any county. For example, I only give the City of Zagreb as an example that has the most numerous city administrations, the largest number of employees and all other meanings of officials, holding, not to mention all of this. Therefore, you did not do what you probably meant to do but rather, the provisions are so set up and such is the manipulation of the provisions that there will be an increase in the number of employees and employees, and the issue of expertise will remain. Because increasing does not mean expertise, does not mean expertise. In fact, we are entering the vicious circle of Kafka and the process of how and how to resolve all these rights and obligations. Therefore, it is evident how deficient this Law is, how unsuitable it is for the real situations that have occurred and that are yet to take place in this process of transfer of power. Not only does it mean handovers, because neither in the 2004 fundamental law, until then, it's defined and established, so you're not now. Therefore, there is the impression that a declarative thing was to be done, but I say, by analysis, the simulation is visible that new opportunities are just being opened for new abuses, for a new increase in numbers within the city, county or municipal administration. That those reports are basically how you said them here which parts they must have, are basically nothing. It's just some decry without concrete analysis, no concrete data and everything. So we will not achieve what we all here in this Croatian Parliament want, and that means that we have a law that is so designed, that it is complete and that it will be implemented. But do not implement in a negative sense such as, I say, this provision of Article 10.c because they will all understand that it is their obligation to spend more money than they could otherwise spend in view of the budget they have made and of all these other situations. Therefore, the only right and effective solution is to refer this law to third reading because this is not going to get what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82689	Thank you. The HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82690	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. This is, in any case, an interesting proposal that came, which we naturally expected after the first reading. However, do we need such a law and such provisions, or should we, for example, need them? the texts of the laws which would read: "A law on the takeover of power after elections". At first glance illogically, but actually what it looks like, what some do if most are realized, the model is simple. After the election, rules are changed, systematization is changed. However, it is always pro-form, to find an excuse. New suits are in place, new headmasters are in place, and they're usually inadmissible. They are made available in principle from one month to several months and then they get fired and then come similar. They are left with protection in court, which they of course do because they are not guilty of what happened to them and in general after a few years they also get a dispute from several hundred thousand kunas who of course go to the burden of the city, the municipality, the county, but in principle the government that is in the new term. A good example is for this Virovitica-Podravska County where cancellations took place back several mandates. And you know what the county had to do? She had to sell shares in her own company, she had to sell shares of a bank to pay back millions and 300 thousand kuna for those who were unwarrantedly fired. It's actually about 10% of the original budget of that county. However, that is not enough of a reminder. Once again, after taking over the government history is repeated, the cancellations are re-enlisted, even the referents, even the secretaries literally, and the porter, if they do not belong, knows which political option. It is interesting, however, that it happens to those who have acted against the law, who are called Mayor, Mayor, Commissioner, nothing happens to them. They're neither material, let alone criminally responsible. Of course, they're not even moral because they've been doing it on several occasions. So it's possible to do damage, direct damage to the county, the city or the municipality of several hundred million kunas picturesquely, several hundred thousand kunas, without being held accountable, even if it's known to be treated against the law, even if it's known to be strictly political. So despite the law, shifts happen politically, and they go unrelentingly even towards single mothers, even those whose source earns a small official in a local self-government unit are the only sources of income. The second is the formation of power after the elections, by buying mandates, by pressing the councillors and by buying them. It is the easiest to buy, and this is generally known to be done by crossing from party to party, which is also the cheapest if paid from the budget of the county, city and municipalities of course well-paid jobs, directors in a city enterprise, headmaster, development agency director, etc. Of course there are options for offering jobs for spouses on the burden of units of local self-government, children etc. How many cases do we have? Have we considered writing amendments to the law and these phenomena I'm talking about? Did we do anything? No, I don't. No, because that kind of thing still happens. We pretend to be blind and say that we want to actually accept and comply with the standards of the European Union. We understand that the desire of the ruling to cement the state after the parliamentary elections, so that a series of government officials has been in the last year, and even those who have not received such large salaries. The mandate in some cases must and in some cases do not have to be made available. And that is how it wants to preserve human resources after the election and resolve their material status. Croatia should comply with European Union standards. However, what kind of depoliticality is this if people who have come politically, who have been politically appointed and who have come back several years to the state administration are wanting to stay. We know that that's how several thousand people were admitted to the state administration. Are they members of any political options? It would be good to hear that report. I remember during the former government it was precisely known from which political parties were not only the minister but also the deputy minister and assistant. That's what the survey was about. And probably when we talk about handing over power, it would be interesting to hear how many people came by, how many they belonged to, or belong to a political option. And it would be interesting to know if the conditions for coming to that place were also to enter a party. Well, it's common knowledge that even a local community guard can't be elected today unless he's a member of some political option. This HSS cannot accept such a final draft of the law on the procedure of handing over authorities simply because we believe this is not a continuation of the process of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of both state and local and regional self-government. What we especially want to highlight. We are not satisfied with the alleged sanctioning of post-election staff changes motivated by political rematchism. That's what the law says here. It is reportedly and regulated by the articles of the law where it is said that you must not do so, but, however, make sure that the mayor, mayor or mayor does so by chance. But if he does, if he fires someone in that procedure, if he puts pressure on them, nothing happens to him. It's simply because the law says decisions in the staff changes conflict with the provisions of this law are nothing, but there are no sanctions. Nothing happens to whoever did it. The police are responding eventually. But we all know what it's worth. The law says no personnel changes are allowed. However, if they are banned and what happens to those who are not allowed to do so. Nothing. The law simply says nothing about it. What does that look like on another example? I'm going to mention an example that I know very well, which I've asked a representative question recently. And that's the Nova Bukovica municipality. In fact, 5 council members in the small municipal council warned on several occasions about the illegal conduct of the municipal chief and the decisions taken by the council as well as the employment. On four occasions, they wrote to the Central State Administration Office. They wrote a few rushes, but they didn't get the answer. Such a situation lasts for months, and the law allows the authority formed against the law and acting against the law to actually last until the end of the term of office. I don't see any change here and in these amendments to the Law on the procedure of handing over power. So that the mayors, the mayors and everyone else can act like gods, and the councilmen elected by the citizens are left to complain to someone. However, after the appeal, after writing the presentations, the state administration which should be professional, which should accept the standards of the European Union does not fit for half a year or does not correspond at all for a year and that is the professional administration that we want, and that is the management that we would like to continue and that there is not even an open tender for most jobs. No, I don't think we need such a administration, that we need a professional who will respond to the council within a reasonable period that in no case should be longer than that. 15 days. In the case of the handover of the authorities, we have not regulated this procedure enough, we know that this is a sensitive area, and there is a new model that is still not regulated by law, but which is in practice implemented, and it is called a public private partnership where local and regional self-government leaders can create commitments that are of financial nature, which are high and long-term. However, whether we should write about this in the report, we do not know for simple reasons, because there is no mention of what the report on the handover of the authorities should contain here in the amendments to the Law. In the HSS, we believe that this report should be adopted. This is how the chief remembers or the mayor that he can write it poetically on a page or half a page and hand it over to the one who comes behind him. Well, of course it's not a personal act and it can't be the personal act of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. At the very least, this report should be adopted by the headship so that it is also an official document in the case of the handover of the authorities, and it would be good to be adopted by the municipal or city council, i.e. the County Assembly, because there are no obstacles to this. It can always be adopted in regular procedure. And things are actually much simpler that way if we say the backgrounds of writing that report should be drawn from accounting and everything would be much simpler. Here are just some of the clues that we at HSS believe should be contained. We think that changes do not give new quality and therefore it would be good to experience another reading. In this form, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82691	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82692	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. In my court, this article 10.c is at least controversial, which speaks truth about this one-fifth budget unit of local self-government, but also says that these contracts whose individual value cannot exceed 0.5% of the budget of the units of local and regional self-government, i.e. up to 1 million kuna. However, everything else in this Law is far more controversial than this provision. This is the Law that regulates the relationship of the executive government, meaning from the vote to the entry into office of the mayor, mayor, mayor, or people of the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, this law I would dare say makes no sense. Croatia also worked when it did not have such a law. The point of this law is that nothing changes. The point of this law is to keep it all the same. Perhaps the essence of this Law is the fear of changing power, or the desire for the existing state to be cemented. That this is also the case with Article 3 of this Law, which is, anyway, the maximum amount of short-term handover by the authorities, i.e. The Secretary of the Government and the Secretary of the Ministry and Assistants of the Ministry and the Head of the Office of the Government are now disfellowshipping the mandate. So according to Article 6. The laws of mandates are made available and now only to the State Secretary, Secretary of Government, Director of State Administration Organisations, Chief Treasuryman and clear director of the Institute. Since I am sure that another amendment to this Law, which was passed in the 7th month of 2004, will follow by the 7th month of 2004, means for the government's mandate, then I suppose the State Secretary will also be excluded. But what's the point? Ministerial assistants above all, they, head of the Government Office, etc., are a couple of excellent political functions. They're party people. To claim they're not party people it's a notorious lie. Clearly, in the case of a new government, everyone will not fall and God forbid it would all be cleaned up, under quotes, or needed, but may the position of the new government be made easier now, whether it is state, regional or local, and let these gentlemen put their mandates at their disposal, and not that in the case of a shift they are now called suddenly for rematchism by those who have come and the like. Only one thing in my court is worse than that, that the government would not be called for rematch then those individuals are left to function, means in the saddle, but new people are employed who take on real power so that after every change of government the number of officials and the number of officials and the growing red tape is increasing and Croatia is becoming more bureaucratic. That's the point, and that's why it's no surprise that, say, after 2003, another few thousand people were employed in the state apparatus. I guess it was simple after every change of government. We all know that ministerial assistants aren't the kind of innocents they like to be introduced to, so they don't need to be treated exclusively because they must be in a better position than the MPs. It's not power, especially money isn't here in the Parliament, it's in the executive government. It's not the power with us that raise our hands for these laws, but for those who decide whether this or that contractor will get the construction of this or that road, this or that school, these or those halls, these or those sewers, and that sort of thing. All this is worth understanding about is local self-government. Directors don't know water, sewers, certain homes, etc. They are party people, so let them and these gentlemen put their mandates at their disposal, and let the new power decide what to do with them, that is, with those mandates. And one director of the Pula water pipeline and the director of the Buzet water pipeline and the manager of the Rijeka Voda and the Zagreb water pipeline and the one in Split, so these are political acquisitions. I'm sorry, when their option comes to power, they're all party people, and when that option leaves power, they suddenly become understandable experts. The same goes for Ina, same goes for Croatian mail, same goes for HEP, and even the Council of Croatian Radio Television, although it's a little different there, but the dominant influence when these people are being placed has, has and will have politics like it or not and whatever they think of themselves. Likewise, the directors of these large systems by my court should also be in this law, and they should make their mandates available rather than just the presidents of the congregations. Well, it's not gonna happen again, I'm gonna do it again, power with the MPs. I think it's more like I'm the director of the Ina who's turning 15 billion kunas at the annual level. It's not the power of the MPs. It's the director of HT. It is not the power of MPs, but the director I do not know, Croatian Post Bank, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters or Croatian Roads that decide on the budget of 3-4 billion kuna. Croatian Insurance, head director of Croatian Radio Television. Yesterday we were talking about the billion-dollar television budget and 500 seems to me, a million kuna. Look at the pay, look at their infrastructure, their car, their suits, the bonuses they have, the severances they have in those contracts, etc. So let them put their mandates at their disposal and that would be a nice minimum. Why are the MPs being attacked? So that the executive power, that is, those individuals who use that state infrastructure, would do what they're doing, and that's the point, and that's what needs to be understood. And that's why I'm saying that one of these proposals that is all narrow and narrow compared to those legal solutions in 2004 which means that the majority or this government is, at least, deplaced, offensive and may even express the cowardly egg of that future set if there are any changes. Even if there is no change in government, so that everything remains the same, that the same prime minister continues to act on him as is legally regulated in Slovenia, gentlemen who are in these places must make their mandates available because the old government, in some way, has the right to a new beginning. So until we look into the truth, there won't be any less corruption. Our laws, more specifically this practice, are largely the generator of corruption. Everyone stays in their seats. Then they participate, for example, as directors of large systems in the transformation of state-owned enterprises and no longer continue to work for new bosses, in the same places where they have worked in the rule of these directorial functions, so that I do not now mention some of the most cumbersome examples that stick to the eyes. And then you always ask yourself the question, did they privatization in the interest of a state or a new owner who didn't know how he got them to go there any less than they did in the same place. Well, what I don't know is the shame that the Director of the State Insurance Society not to appoint a company has a salary as the president of the state, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and probably his resolution minister together. 500 thousand kuna bonuses, which will be severances yet to be seen. But we'll live to see that too. Let's just see what some do in shipyards, etc. I'm not talking about rematchism. I'm absolutely not about political hygiene. You came with some political option, followed it all the way under quotes, not as if I didn't know who to jump out of the boat first. And finally, let's not let the new government clear the deck because then it can really look like rematchism, and that's why we need a precise law to avoid exactly that rematchism. So that sense of political power as well as the code I don't know, these intelligence checks we've had lately. Nothing is taxed, so it's clear that everyone does what they like because everything is allowed to everyone, and I don't think it's exactly that, that's how it shouldn't be. And that is why I advocate that simply all these individuals put their fine mandates at their disposal so that in some way they are not violated, and theirs I do not know personally, etc. Right. So let the law go to third reading, as the clubs before me suggested, and if it were submitted by the Parliament or the assembly clubs, and not by the Government, I think it would be something fairer. It is impossible to narrow down more and more that category of people under quotes "to face the handover of power" because it is in some way a fear of some changes that can follow and a huge problem for those who, today or tomorrow, will inherit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82693	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82694	A colleague, Cain, said completely incorrectly that the directors of utility companies are equally party people. I don't know how you do it in Istria, but in Koprivnica, all directors are not members of any political party. _Other Organiser That's not how we do it. [[Intruder: Only sympathies, yes.]] We are not all alike and do not accuse all those who have come in a fair manner in their duties, of being like those who have come under political duty, of political likeness. Therefore, they all came to Koprivnica in a public competition, based on their abilities they were appointed to office and I think it would be totally unfair to tie them to the mandate of the unit leader of local self-government because they did not even come when the chieftainships were elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82695	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Is there a correction? ... Are you giving up or what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82696	You're the president curious that I wanted to say so, so I'd like to correct...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82697	Not just me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82698	Satisfying this one of yours, though we might have been able to do without this, but it's incorrect indeed that colleague Cain said this legal proposal was a coward's egg to the new government. Well, it's up to the new government to lay a new egg. Bring a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82699	And we're talking about a new government in the future about a new government. The egg must be, what's before chicken or egg? ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82700	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I think actually that this replica is all speaking and describing the state of the political spirit in us. I'll start with one life story. After these elections in May 2005, I was approached by a friend and cut off like this and said, if my Kramarić says, "That democracy is not God-knows-what." He says, after all the choices, thank God we got them pretty much, I'm packing your bags, your drawers, and I have to go. And that's exactly how many of us realize the policy that when it changes, when certain changes happen, then my guys and I come along, me and my people, and what actually changes doesn't really need to be changed. And that uncertainty and that fear that the government actually has is no wonder that some times a nostalgia occurs, so it seems to me that before the place was safe, it was better. We think that we politicians or politics are the ones who should somehow restore trust in people in the very act of choice as an act that shows in many ways both our democracy and our tolerance and our willingness, that politics also goes every few years to go to check and get or not get a mandate from citizens. But that doesn't mean that really there now every man who shows certain political sympathy or indifference or is simply his place in himself interesting to be applied to someone from this story about me and my boys, he really feels like he's on the street. I've been four times, in four terms I acted as mayoral authority, and then I noticed that always before the elections, before the 2, 3 months elections, people don't work, that's when you try to explain themselves, and then people aren't that unemployed, but they just feel like they're being threatened by some uncertainty. And now, if they win some other political option, that they are also theirs, that their places are actually questionable. And that general uncertainty and that despair of fear is something that needs to be changed. No wonder when you ask, there's another anecdote when it says, so the feather you're in is a stranger, and the feather fits in the winner. I don't mean you, Pero Kovacevic, etc., you know. Then you actually have some times it's sad to watch as some people I don't know, until yesterday swear that I don't know liberals or these options, to which they suddenly become realists or regionalists or something else. It really just shows that all the splendor and misery of our human behavior, human character, and exactly something that actually makes that life agonizing. And that's not good. Is this clear, when I was speaking in my first reading during the first debate, then I did not know how to quote Simic's book of politics as fate, exactly where, and constantly thinking, naively that what Simic described there in the 1970s, in the '80s, that these are times that are far behind us and that really will change this atmosphere, i.e. by introducing some more democratic, human and normal relationships of society of things and change. But unfortunately, he won't. What Mršić said was indeed a practice in Osijek. In 15 years, we insisted on professionalizing this management in public city enterprises. And indeed, probably 90% of the directors were even in that event there in those public enterprises did not belong to the liberal option. And we realized that it was really good and that just because someone who doesn't belong to that option doesn't mean he's a bad director. And what you've been doing for 15 years, this has now collapsed overnight, because normally you need to in some way, be obliged to pay and bring your people in. What happens now, in particular, in Osijek? Now these suddenly, newly-componed directors, their businesses are failing and are now becoming mayoral advisors. We have a very specific case in Osijek. He says he's a public procurement consultant. I have to admit, would you like someone to describe to me what this man is going to do for a year every day? And be careful, that he be counsellor for one law. That is, public procurement is actually how to interpret two, three possibly so awkward articles in the law. That's what my colleague Cain was talking about. In fact, then we're working on that red tape. You must bring your men. You wouldn't want to make a rematch, then you move them a little bit, so you give them some lower rank in some hierarchy, they stay there, so they crash both in the room and in the halls and do absolutely nothing and our society is bureaucratic. And we're now asking, how is our society being bureaucratized? Let's go, and actually we're in it ourselves. Just because this principle of responsibility, the principle of professionalization, the principle of depoliticalism is something that we all talk about, all we need to do is listen to us in pre-election campaigns, when the situation comes to do so then we run away from it. Normally, what my colleague Anticevic has guessed is true, it's said in srid. I agree with the same guy. Now someone's going to say, this secretary, now this is the secretary, it's the secretary, it's actually reaching the status quo, that things are being cemented, and when the new government comes, then it's very easy to change the law. And we're actually going to have the same thing again. But we really need to be aware, it can be really very easy, elegantly made that list of people who are definitely leaving. These are purely political functions, and those people who in no way should be dependent on the relations of political relations in the county, in the city, in the state, in Mark's square are something that actually, let's give them back that dignity and that indeed they can freely even articulate somewhere on their political sympathies or antipathies but that it means absolutely nothing to the job itself. Better and some of us should say, and you're doing some good at being the director of a public firm than I know a bad liberal. And that was the principle we said for 15 years. That autonomy of the institution may sound a little bit more like that if I'm boring, parrotically repeating, but Socrates said, the truth is, you're always talking about the same thing. And that's exactly what the institution's autonomy is is something that is a prerequisite for our democratisation. There is no democratic, modern, civil, decent society unless we introduce that principle. And I cannot succeed in economic reforms. Indeed, nothing can succeed if people truly have a constant doubt, a constant fear, a constant uncertainty. So I'm saying, of course, by this law, we can go through the elements of whether or not they need to go away, away with it. But I think it's petty, that it really doesn't get the point. After all, there's always the discretionary right of a man who'll be a minister, I don't know, to fire that bad assistant. There is, if there is, but it must not be "a priori". And that "a priori" would be, I don't know, past, in the first reading that some people spoke of doubt. Well, I think if everything is really resting in our house on suspicion, then we're really not going to get far. If doubt is the key premise of every thought we have, political thinking. And that's why we're in the first reading of the HSS Club was for this law and even with, I say with this, but we have to introduce this, let's say the theoretical dimension. A theoretical, theoretical dimension to really get away from once, from that. Then we have an example that some secretary of state is not right. That, thank God there are such examples. But it's not the secretary of state that matters. It's the principle that's going to be set up. I mean, buddy, fellow Letica, he reads very carefully too. It's clear. Now I think he said that scientific thought has, makes sense and shows what it's like to be able to apply within political action. How applicable it is to political action. And that's why, once and for all, we have little and this one, let's say not exactly political lectures where we're just trying to introduce, introduce some other categories that will help us get to certain, certain good results. So for responsibility, for seriousness, for loyalty, for just that trust as some, like some basic human category, and that doubt and everything else that can appear, incompetence and so on, this is what it is said, as it used to be said, "Let's not let political similarity be the only criterion in walking." Then we don't really have anything from that again. Then we will have these "Pere" who will say they are always in the political party. Then you'll have people who'll get you later... the choices to say they had to do it and they were always yours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something I have to admit to me as a man in politics, and I don't want to be a part of it. And every time I personally have to be ashamed of myself just for, precisely for the glow and misery of the people around you some times and who really have to agree to some compromises just because work, existence is easily lost and difficult to acquire. For these very reasons, we will give support to this law even though I am fully aware of what my colleague Anticevic said that, that a new combination, a new one, could lay a whole new egg and bring an extra light into this tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82701	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82702	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues Someone in his debate today said that this law should be called a law in the transfer of power. [[/Intruder: They silence Mr. Kramarić's ovations after this brilliant performance. It's the omelet and the eggs, isn't it? Yeah, yeah. Okay.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, when some proposed changes or additions are carefully read, I would still call it the Law on the handover of officials. Because you follow him, especially in that part of the local and regional self-government, the meaning will be taught to officials, not to the authorities. There will be neither handover nor transfer of power. In 2004, when the government came with the Law on the Handover of Authorities, I commended only the fact that such a significant law was passed, proposed and passed in the first year of office and I said it was very good. I now have to criticise the fact that the amendment to the Law comes in the last year of the term of office, which is not good, and I have also proposed amendments to regulate and handover the authorities at local level in 2004. The government has rejected these amendments on the grounds that it cannot be the subject of this law but that the government will regulate the handover of local authorities in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. That's now changed from then to today. That it couldn't have been the subject of this Law then, and today it can and must be the subject of this Law. Now a concrete four grudges. Article 10c introduces a ban on the availability of taxpayers' money in municipalities, cities and counties from the moment of elections to the handover of authorities. So three fences were put in. 0.5% or 1/12, respectively. I am interested in what computer was used to calculate these percentages because I remind you when the law was passed and when it is regulatory in the central government, then you do not enter 0.5% or 1/12 or million but it says that after the election is called and the government of the Republic of Croatia cannot conclude contracts of significant value. So it remains a more significant value. What's more significant? We asked then and no one answered. So if it could be calculated for municipalities, cities and counties that it is a million kuna, 0.5% budget or 1/12 why can't we calculate it at the level of the Republic of Croatia? How much more of a contract must not be concluded than we leave a provision of more significant value. That's when we're tough on the local self-government, but we're tough on the old yuppie. Please, please, let's not limit ourselves to anything yet. Furthermore, Article 10d. The municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of Zagreb and their deputies who are members of the company congregations must also withdraw from these supervisory committees. Okay. What about the board of directors? The management of an institution owned by a county, city or municipality is of the same importance as the management of a company. So the former mayor has to leave the control board of the utility company but he can, but he stays at the head of the board of directors. Or the Institute of Public Health, home of health, museum, home of culture. And... We are an amendment to introduce, along with companies, institutions that often have higher budgets and more money than certain companies and are more important for managing local resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here in Article 10d, the Proposer has come up with one problem that he does not know how to resolve and this is the next. He rests, the provision rests on the claim that the next local elections will be a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and that there will be no more local chieftains. By the way, I am taking the opportunity to ask if we will vote on this bill in this term of the Parliament in which the debate is closed and has not been voted out? Or are we gonna let him fall off the agenda by the end of the term? I remind you that the House has not yet voted and has not been passed. But this solution in this law rests on the basis of when there is no more headship in municipalities, cities and counties. At this point, however, we are passing a regulation that will apply to the handover of the authorities when we have chieftains in municipalities, cities and counties, so I remind you of the provisions of the Law on Local and Area where it is prescribed that the heads of the administrative bodies may be members of the headship. Because the practice in Croatia is different. Somewhere the headmasters are members of the headship, somewhere they're not, somewhere they're all, somewhere they're just some, and no one. If he's a headmaster, he's just a clerk, if that's what it's all about. What is his status as a member of the headship of the existing, local elections are coming, which is with his mandate. The fact that someone is a member of the headship and is also a headmaster is not an official position, but a political position and he entered the headship to be a member of the headship as a political person, no matter where it was done, when it was done and who did it. And it cannot be equal treatment for those who are exclusively competitive and others at the head of the administrative bodies and those who have accepted political functions in headships. We also warned about this in the Law on Local and Regional, and we often warn that we have a double system that is legitimate and legal. But now that we're bringing in one norm that's talking about Day D, we're now pretending like it's not in Croatia, and there is. And we regulate the same rule for everyone, and they're not all in the same position. And this law, if we vote on it now this week, is not in line with the existing law, because we don't have a law on direct elections of local self-government leaders and we have headships, and the proposer pretends to be gone. Third. Penalties Article 10f. If you notice that the sentence is intended only for local leaders, and what about state officials if they do not implement this law. How is it that in one law that lays down the same obligations, it prohibits the availability of property, the obligation to report and hand over authorities and sanctions are established as municipal chief in Lower Moticin, but not as prime minister who is leaving. Is it not necessary in Article 10f? add state officials subject to penalties if they do not comply with the provisions of this law because this law also has in its original form the obligations of civil servants. We've given the amendment, and I believe it will be accepted that they too are subject to the fines of 30,000 kuna. Article 5(2) shall continue to apply until a new official is chosen on the basis of the invitation to tender. Now I ask her next. The secretary of state, the deputy minister's assistant, has given the post-election mandate. He continues to carry out his duty until the new authority chooses a new man by competition, according to the law. The next day after the election of the new deputy minister, what status does this person have the next day after the decision by competition. This person who's the Deputy Minister today is he the next day official or is he an official? Because if he's an official, then his work relationship stops. If the clerk has to stay employed by the Ministry. The draft law is good until the moment of competition and competition decisions, but there is no solution after the competition, no decision by competition. What is the status of that person? So, all of the current deputy ministers, the deputy secretaries who are listed in this law, the explicits that are with them, the assistant ministers, the deputy secretaries, the assistant secretaries, I don't know what they're called already. We will have a situation that we do not have a legally envisaged solution and what with them, and since they always have to be tried in the judiciary for the benefit of employees, they will remain employed. How many of them are there right now? More than a hundred on state level alone. Without the corrections of these four key provisions, we will not be able to support this bill because they would do too much damage in relation to the fundamental intention of regulating the transfer of power by law, handing over authorities, and that is why I said that this law would actually produce a situation that we would contribute officials, not authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82703	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82704	Here's a little correction to the inaccuracy of fellow Lesar, who suggested just as the only correct solution to the law being called the Law on the handover of persons, officials. That's not true first. This would imply that people are a slave and surrender, and it would further imply their position if they were obliged to obey one of their leaders either a minister or a prime minister or another head of command. And the truth is, at least according to our laws, how we should behave that they are obliged to obey the law alone. And it would also imply surrendering to an international institution people who are not in anything wrong or who are accused of anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82705	Thank you. The PGS Club of SBH and the IMF is a respected representative of Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82706	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government. Allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Club of the Primorje-Goran Alliance of the Slavon-Baranja Croatian Party and the Međimurska Democratic Union on the subject of amendments and addition of the Law on the procedure for the handover of the Government. First of all, what we want to say is that we hope that a lot of Croatian citizens are watching this debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82707	One moment. Take care of your glasses! It's gonna fit on the glasses, so it's gonna be the devil! Glasses! Be still like you're in a minefield! Yes, Falcon! [[Intruder: Hawk Eye!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82708	You got it. Thank you very much. So let me say it again. First of all, we hope that a lot of Croatian citizens are watching this debate and are now commenting again and again in their homes that in Croatia it is a popular job to deal with itself as it is popular in Croatia and to comment that it is quite clear that people in politics most like to deal with themselves and people in the executive power themselves and how to stay in power for as long as possible. In fact, we think it is quite clear that these amendments and amendments to the law do not bring anything important new, nothing of quality and in these few solutions that are offered do not offer any particular good. However, there is an opportunity to make sure who is more honest in politics, who is more honest in taking over power, who is more honest and honest when leaving power, and I will now tell you through several examples how we from small parties that we are never in power see what it looks like when it applies and how big parties operate at all levels of government. To become an official or senior official in Croatia means to climb the political ladders. Of course, very quickly 90% of those who come to these places by policy become independent and non-political officials, and even better, suddenly become great experts. Each profession in its area has what are called references. So one day it would be good for those who declare themselves after being brought into power by the parties, regardless of which parties, to go once from being able to show in each profession with references whether it is professional or not. Of course I think it's quite clear that these are political people, that they come with politics. And I don't see why we should be in front of the people of this country, because they're for those who came with politics with politics one day and they should leave. What does it look like in practice? Currently, a series of newspapers say that some leaders do not even care about the party's name for officials in their portfolios hiring members of their party, and that, of course, by looking into the eyes of the media, they say, so I didn't even know that Pero was a member of my party. So I mean, where can that water drink? I will not mention the name or the county, but I will tell you, there are companies, public institutions, museums, kindergartens in the cities and counties of this country in which when you are an opposition you cannot give a minority member of the administrative council, the last of the last. ... The opposition party gets 20% in its city but you can't give one that will be in the minority board of city kindergartens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, it's something my party has been through and through. After we, for example, stepped out of power somewhere all the people who represented our party are moving from the boards of directors and boards to the decisions of the assembly, I mean the assembly behind the county or the city. And what are we talking about now? I mean, there's really a question that everyone's honest and everybody doesn't do what they do to each other. And in fact, the hypocrisy of unseen proportions where they behave in about the same way. Therefore, the proposal in question. First, it's not good and it's not good to bring it in the election year. Because it can't be put outside the political context. This story of how, about the deputies, Deputy Deputy Secretary of the Government, Deputy Ministers and all that, so of course, these are the people who came here as the expression of a concept of politicalism, the one who won legitimately in the elections. Based on what are you now turning them into someone who should be the continuity of doing certain jobs at such a high political level? This public will not accept independently of what they're telling me or what they're not talking about. I think the protection of these officials is that if they are unnamed to either deploy in the system or go, they return to their companies quite enough within the framework of existing legal rules, and everything has already spoken about it today. As regards this part where the objection is specific to this Article 10c and how it is made available to funds during transitional periods when the handover of the authorities is concerned, the same can be said of concrete examples. And it can't come in. But I assure you, it must not be because you have dozens of examples, from cities, counties and governments where a period of 20, 30 days where the government's handover was made was a period of making the biggest contracts, intentional spending, budgeting in crisis for those who take over. And yet it's better in this House to speak in general, not name you. We had such examples and cases at the end and in the case of the handover of government at the state level. So we really think, first of all, we don't support these changes and additions. We don't support the adoption of this in the election year. This will not be a depoliticization that you spoke of as representatives of the government. If part of the people who have entered the system through politics now as non-political persons remain in the system then additional politicisation is done in the wrong way. And we don't think it leads to anything good. And we think it actually needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82709	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82710	Thank you very much. What should be the purpose of this law? Depolitize the administration and prevent rematch after the change of power. And will this law do so? He won't. He won't. Politics where there is power and where it intends to bring its people to certain positions they will do so. They'll do it and in this law they won't stop. Any other or different criminal provisions should be prescribed. If we wanted to stop it. What are government officials and how are government officials acting? And even when government officials are assigned to certain functions with very specific tasks such as this. the function of the Chief State Inspector. We had a chance to see this Mr. Kovacevic the other day on "Open" show where he spoke not as chief state inspector, but as a passionate member of the party. He came there to defend party colors, not his job. Then he looks at the workers, and he attacks them to go to false sick leave, and in this competitive game between the employer and the worker, he openly places himself on the side of the employer and insults the workers. And that's the chief state inspector who should be among those employers controlling whether they're breaking the law or not. The man was obviously appointed there because he was a member of a party and it was his reward. Okay, he's an official, so after the change of government he's gone. He retains the right to remain in that inspectorate because he used to be some kind of inspector, so he could remain some kind of inspector. But state officials appointed to such functions often do not understand their duty so that they should work in the interest of the common good and in the interest of the work they are appointed to. In principle, it is a good intensity for the assistant minister to be an official and to be one of the tops of a civil career, the end of an official's career, to be a professional person. But still some other criminal provisions should be put into this law to prevent the act of having the power of assistants bring their people. She'll find a way and a method. They're going to make a new rulebook, some new systemization, and then they're going to name a similar one on that door again, not capable. That's why I don't have faith in this legal text. The head of the government's office here, I don't agree in principle to be an officer. Well, I guess when the government is appointed, it has the right to choose the head of its office, I guess the prime minister can. When an official like this is now, he goes along with the prime minister and the government, and the new government chooses its new head. Because the old president from some opposite option, let's imagine what he's doing as the head of the government's office, how he's obstructing her, and that they can't do anything to him because he's a clerk now. So that's not true in the concept unless you're really thinking about some particular person you want to protect and turn into a clerk now and then keep his job in place. When it comes to the head of the office in the local self-government, then it's the law to say, rough. He doesn't respect differences, and there are differences. In smaller units of local self-government, it is not easy for you to find an expert in the head of the office. There are no people out there in abundance and you are more likely to be an expert and that even after the change of government will not change it. Why won't he change it? They don't have one. They don't have it, because it's a small unit. In major units of local self-government, I am not sure, and in those where the head of the office is also a member of the headship or may be a member of the headship he is by definition a political person. As a member of the chieftainship he is not an expert, he is a politician. It doesn't make any difference, he puts it all in one basket and now he thinks he's solved something, and he hasn't solved anything. He clouded the water that was even brighter by now. Well, I don't think that's how it should work. If we have the ambition to take care of this, at least reduce it if we don't completely prevent rematchism, which is a good intensity. Which is a good intensity, I welcome, to depolitize the administration and the government, means at the state level and in the units of local self-government, but then we do it with real instruments. So first we see what the problem is, what's the problem, and then let's think about how this problem is solved, and then let's think about all the phenomena of this problem, and let's write a little more precise legal text. So was it a problem to write there and the director who is also a member of the headship did not remain this, regardless of whether he was elected in a public competition or not was elected in a public competition. I can't believe the government has no idea that there are headmasters who are members of the headship. If you really don't know about it, then listen to what you're told here in the House, pull this up, work it out, come up with a new reading, but give at least what everyone knows about the citizens of this country, and you don't know, at least get it into the law. So don't get it wrong, don't insist on bringing it like this now on Friday, the vote, because it's no good for you. And it's not true that it can't be better. It could be better. It took a little more effort to fix it. Therefore, I agree with all those who have well-intentioned the Proposer to withdraw this text, to correct it, and otherwise if you insist on voting on it, then we will have to be against it for these reasons. We'll have to be against it. We can't even accept it to be... as officers of those who came as officials. You know who came with politics, with politics and leaving. It's a very simple principle. It's a very simple principle. Can't a politician suddenly become an expert. He can't. Because it simply creates one bad atmosphere in society, mistrust in politics, and I think that the intensity of this law, its purpose, would achieve a full purpose if citizens gained more confidence in politics. More trust. If that is the government's intention, then accept these well-intentioned remarks and make a better legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82711	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will point out firstly that this law absolutely needs to be supported and not only because it represents a truly important segment of the reform of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia and the harmonisation of these normative standards with the standards of the European Union but also because it is regulated by the bill itself, the procedure for the handover of authorities at both national and local level is being arranged, but even though it was here that I will repeat it, in terms of achieving two basic objectives. Thus, the state administration should be depolitised to the greatest extent possible and the principle of expertise and professionalisation affirmed at all levels of state administration. And secondly, to sanction and ban personnel change, so a shift that is motivated solely by political rematchism and I think that in the sense of achieving these objectives and in that sense, the development of legal provisions will probably all agree. With this in mind, I support, therefore, the legislative solutions which accurately determine which government officials place at their disposal on the government's disposal on the day of their entry. And it is acceptable that the legal decision to delete from the list of officials to whom the term of office is made available to the Government those duties, i.e. those positions which, according to the Civil Service Act, are therefore changing their status and from the official to the civil servant. It is specifically about the positions of Deputy Deputy Secretary of the Government, so the secretary of the ministry, the assistant minister, the representative of the Office of the Government, and these are therefore officials who, by the very application of the legal provisions themselves, are therefore becoming state officials. And in this sense, I support these changes in this Law. However, it is also very important that those newspapers relating to the process of handing over authorities at only local level or in the field of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, which are actually implemented as solutions in the parliamentary debate in the first reading and are now represented in this final text of the Law, therefore, new solutions and should, therefore, be highlighted which are actually the papers or new solutions. First, then. Determining the obligations of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb when their term of office ceases in terms of the obligation to submit a written report on the operations carried out in its section with an accurate determination of the content of the report and the establishment of sanctions for the fulfilment of this legal obligation. These reports and the content of these reports have been heard a lot in the debates so far, that they are inaccurate, that they may be different. But my opinion is that they are really necessary and that this norm needs this law. So let us remember what it says, in fact, specifically in this legislative provision, because by law, at least, not explicitly what it writes, but the smallest content of this report should therefore have information about planned projects, measures and other planned activities. Secondly, about start-ups, not completed projects, measures and other start-ups and not completed activities. And it's the third one about the one that's been taken over, not the commitment that's been made. And it seems to me that this third element is most important, but I repeat what I was saying at the outset, that is the least this report should contain, and in every sense this report as an official document, and I agree with that opinion that it should be an official document. It is, therefore, the basic document that will be the basis for a normal handover of the authorities because without that information in that report, you will agree that the new set of instruments that, by the elections made, comes to power in the units of local, regional self-government without that document is actually necessarily in difficulty because it does not really know the actual state of the system of administration that it assumes, in terms of responsibility, in terms of further handling and taking concrete actions whether it is the position or place of mayor, mayor or some other management people in the unit of local or regional self-government. I'd also mention sanctions here. The law provides for sanctions if these obligations are not respected. These sanctions are appropriate and are not small. So they can be in cash up to 30 and... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Up to 30 thousand kuna, and as far as there are no deadlines, there are no legally prescribed deadlines, but the deadlines by nature are here because it is an institute that applies until the entry or take over of power, until the entry into office of newly elected leaders. Thus, the deadlines for things are determined by nature that this obligation must be fulfilled during that time period because otherwise it does not make any sense. Furthermore, municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and their deputies, who are members of the congregations of companies, presidents and members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies, which the representative body has found to be of particular interest to make members of these bodies available to the bodies appointed by them. So, newspapers and certainly one quality norm in terms of a solution under this law. Third, the ceiling of the amount of the individual value of the contract above which contracts may not be concluded from the day of the election, in such a way as to establish the amount of 0,5 budget, i.e. up to a million kuna as the upper limit. However, here it should also be noted that this legal ban also has exceptions. So the legal norm says I can sign the contract, and I think it's extremely important to stress it, so unless the non- conclusion of the contract would cause significant material damage. Furthermore, if necessary for the purpose of implementing the law or the enforcement of earlier commitments, or if so, in the sense of completing the start-ups that are presumed to be terminated until the entry into office of newly appointed officials. In the light of the legal provision of the new article, therefore, set out in Article 10(s) as a legal prohibition, it provides that the procedure shall be subject to the delegation of state authorities and executive powers in the unit of local and regional self-government, regional self-government shall be prohibited and staff changes except in the duties for which the mandate is to be made available under the provisions of this Act. In conclusion, we had a lot of critical tones and objections to the law itself but I would point out what I said in the opening part of my presentation. It is about new provisions, a new law that will really clarify, to specify the process of handing over authorities. So, a time-sensitive very sensitive period that we haven't had so far, I'd dare say, in no way regulated. This regulation creates, we can put it that way, clear rules of the game. It determines the duties, which and at what point should be done to ensure that the procedure for the handover of the authorities is just taking place in one normal situation, in one normal situation and that the procedure or when, therefore, the people who have received the trust of the citizens and who are now taking over their duties in the most normal way without any stress, regardless of the level of government, from local self-government to, therefore, Parliament, Government. The process of handovers shall be carried out in the best possible way. I think that this law is approaching, really approaching these European standards and that actually by applying this law in the future we will have a better situation, a really better quality situation than we have today and in this sense I absolutely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82713	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82714	Here, dear Mr. Vice President, the distinguished colleague praised the provision of Article 10c and is now from the philosophy he read visible that it could happen, let's take an example of the City of Zagreb, that 12th is somewhere around 580 million kuna, which could mean to calculate into this part, which is determined by one twelveth, but the corruption continues to say unless by not concluding the contract caused material damage to the new one. So it is possible, according to this principle, not up to 580 million, but also more than 580 million, because the manipulation means that the restriction does not apply if adverse consequences arise. I don't know is aware when you read that provision and the problem is that many will take this as a restriction, they will take it as a right and obligation to spend even more. So the stipulation is very bad. It should have that part as it is for the Government, only those tasks that are from the level of the technical government can be carried out, in this case the level of technical headship and all other situations prohibited because this can be the area of machination. Also, I think it was a mistake not to accept our basic proposal when we gave it in 2002, so we repeated it in 2004, our legal proposal on the transfer of power. Our determination was fundamental if politics brought you in, when your policy loses, you choose to pack your suitcases and say goodbye. We don't have anything to worry about you being an expert right now, you didn't come as an expert. In America and everywhere, it's known that, you've lost the election, you've got your bag, you've got your bag in there, you write a report, and you've been waiting for four years for a new occasion. Let's get this in principle. So what kind of experts are they? The second is the situation with experts, and the second is the situation with the heads of the various city or others who came by policy, who have nothing to do with the profession and he can't suddenly become an expert on me overnight, he's just learned something. Let's just let these stories go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82715	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82716	Well, in my response to the replica of a respected colleague, I'll look back at two things. I really said one, and I didn't even mention the other at all, so I don't know how it's replicating me. So in the first part, I was talking about banning exceptions in principle. Always in all situations where you have a legal ban, it's a general principle, but in this situation you have the exceptions prescribed. One of these exceptions is that the conclusion of the contract as a legal transaction would cause significant material damage, i.e. non-conclusion, thus non-conclusion. You have a position where the mayor, for example, If he hadn't signed a contract as a legal job, he would have done a lot of material damage to his city, and that's where the dispute is when I support that provision and I think it's good. That, in your opinion, and everything could be a source of machination, so it could be all a source of machination, but in this case, I don't see it, and I agree with that provision, therefore, that the failure to conclude this legal business, if that non-conceivement would cause any material damage that should be prescribed by law. The second thing you told me, you told me by replicating me as if I suggested and that I advocated that model that those who came by policy had become some sort of expert. Oh, absolutely the opposite. I agree here. One who has come to political office with politics, so by changing that policy should also abandon it because an expert is not in a particular branch of course becoming some kind of political activity or political engagement, but of course perfecting education for it in the intended institutions and, but I do not see a concrete standoff in this Act that supports this principle. I mean, what are we talking about? However, the legal provisions and this Law go in this direction to introduce absolute professionalism in the administration as one of the basic principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82717	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82718	So my colleague Tomljenović wants to draw attention or to convince the public that this law determines the process of handing over the authorities, right? However, we have the Law on the process of handing over authorities that entered into force on 20 July 2004. We are only doing the opposite of what you stand for, and we are going to depolitize the state administration, because by this law we are increasing the number of people who have come because of the policy on their duties, and after the government's term of office, that is, the entry into office of the new government will suddenly become officials. It's about the assistant ministers, the Deputy Secretary of State, the Prime Minister. So we're just going towards a greater politicisation of the state administration because this law says that all those who have come to their duties in this term without a competition, regardless of what happens under this Act in the future, will have to put their mandate at their disposal and present themselves to the competition, then that would be so, but you'll only be the law that came into force on 20 July 2004 cementing these changes to the situation that exists and suddenly the people that HDZ has brought to the post of assistant minister after the election become officials and will not be, that administration will no longer be political, is it? Therefore, you are going towards the politicisation of the state administration, not to the depolitisation of the state administration, and this second part of the Law on Local Self-Government is just an excuse for you to cement the state of the first part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82719	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82720	Well, as usual, because as often as ever, an esteemed colleague actually caricates certain provisions of the law and I think they have no basis at all in certain legal solutions. For example. you are now repeating that the basis of this Law and only this Law and this Final Proposal of the Law will result in some large or enormous increase in the number of employees in the systems of state administration. Of course not. And then he says, a cemented state, so those who came by policy that this bill actually protects them in every sense which is not true at all, is not the law's intensity and the law can't even interpret them in the worst ways, but not apply. That's one thing. So when it comes to increasing the number of civil servants or officials, just by the basis of this regulation, it absolutely does not stand. This law regulates the handover of authorities, so a very time-sensitive period when it comes to changing power or when the elections are over, when a new set of people who have received trust needs to take on new duties. Nothing spectacular, especially in this sense in which you speak is happening, but only this one cycle that has so far not been properly worked out enough, elaborately, is working out to achieve exactly what is law and wants to achieve, which is the professionalization of the state administration, depolitisation of the state administration. And to conclude, we can caricate in that way how you do it by certain legal institutes, but it's both inaccurate and incorrect. And in that sense, dear colleague Mršić and incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82721	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, I'm concerned first of all by the unprincipledness of the promoter. If you look at it, the original law was passed less than a year before the local elections, and then there was not a word about the handover of the authorities and everything that would happen at the local level. Now suddenly with changes and additions, when local elections aren't even close, we go mostly to that part, but the fact is, respected gentlemen, what concerns me is the subsequent mind of the promoter. And it's good to admit to a mistake, that now suddenly, Article 6 of the original law is changing. Do you think that this will really contribute to depolitisation? I personally don't think so. It won't, because the fact would be good and it's too bad he didn't give us, there were also these criticisms and suggestions and for first reading. Why did the promoter not give us additional information as to how much this has changed since the new government arrived, how many ministry secretaries have changed since the new government arrived, so we could discuss your fair and good intentions more effectively?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82723	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82724	Well, to an esteemed colleague, I'm going to try to respond to the replica, just in this sense, which concerns you, and I think that when the public hears it, I think it's going to be quite what's striking, even when they find out what's bothering you. You are concerned that in the procedure of regular law-making, discussions, views and opinions of parliamentary representatives have been accepted in relation to the segment of regulation or local self-government. And when the proposer in this sense respects them in a way that they become legal solutions and that they are actually derived from the debate in the first reading and now translated in part into the final bill, then you are concerned. It's your right to be concerned. All right. I mean, I don't mind that, right? But the need to resolve this issue at the level of units of local self-government has just proved to be a need in terms of the adoption of this law, and therefore the institutes that are now in the final proposal, and are related to local self-government and regional self-government units, a quality institute that will also allow a normal period of the process of handing over authorities and new people who will actually take over those duties, in fact, to take over their duties in a legal, real, normal manner. And those who leave or those who no longer behave these duties will be put into a normative framework in terms of the future that must be fulfilled according to either the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, depends on which unit of local or regional self-government we are talking about. So, I'm not surprised that you're worried about it. If you're worried about a normal law-making process, let me worry you, but I think it's one of the most normal ways to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82725	The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82726	Dear Mr. President! It's not as good as...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82727	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State Palaric asked for a word, I forgot. Here's an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82728	You gave me your word and now I can give him my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82729	Be so good.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82730	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82731	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Croatian society is in constant reform. And we are every law we go step forward towards solving the conflict situations that occurred after the past local elections. And we are also taking steps towards reforming the state administration in the direction of professionalisation and depoliticalisation. Until the entry into force of the Civil Service Act, jobs existed. I'm talking about jobs that were official. A law on civil servants worked with experts from the European Union and with our experts and scientists has set out which jobs will not be in the future, but will be official posts. We had two options. Immediately call the competitions, fill those jobs with people who meet the conditions and then say e now it's a cemented state. That's not what we wanted. We said, "Let's have a fair relationship." We'll have this mandate done by the end. The new government, which I do not prejudge who will be president, who will be vice presidents and members of the government, will have a clean situation after the election formed. That's what the Civil Service Act says, that's how it says in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, that's how it is in the Law on Officials, that's how it is in this law, and no matter how many times we've repeated those solutions, it's always misinputed. Then I gave the order to your officers, write no crutch, legally but write poetically so that everyone in this world really understands what will happen after the next elections. On the day of the establishment of the Government of the Place, Deputy Secretary of Government, the secretary of the ministry, not the assistant minister, as more assistants will not be, but will be called director of the administration, deputy secretary of the Central State Administration, who are listed, become official jobs. All those who have been found, who have been elected in the present way, shall be given a mandate at the disposal of the new government. And that's what it says. I'm going to read article 5 now. Persons who, after the first parliamentary elections following the entry into force of this law, are found on the day of entry into service of Deputy Government Secretary, Ministry Secretary, Assistant Minister and Head of the Government's Office, shall place a mandate to perform their duties at the disposal of the Government This is Article 5(1). What's going on? [[Where does it say that?]] We're talking about one day, the day when the government is established, when there's a vote of confidence in the Parliament. They put a mandate on the table, of course they can't... The system has to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some administrations have a hundred people. And it says this, the persons found in the duties of paragraph 1 of this Article shall continue to carry out their duties until the appointment of officials at work is made on the basis of the invitation to tender: Deputy Secretary of Government. So the government is obliged by the Officials Act to open the tender immediately and then they will carry out their duties until they are appointed new to the competition. So Deputy Secretary of the Government, Secretary of the Ministry, Director or Director, so there are no further assistants in the Ministry and representatives of the Office of State Administration. And it can't be cleaner not even written in dry legal language, but it's written in an understandable Croatian language and I can't help wondering how someone might be mistaken about the government's intensity. Of course, imputation is part of a political struggle but for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of all those who participate or participate in political life, they must know that the future will be appointed by political criteria by the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents and ministers and state secretaries. Second, all seats are official to the competition. Whoever fulfils the conditions, whoever submits the tests required for each job will be appointed. Therefore, this is not about post-sense but about building up the system, about the reforms that we are implementing that started with the Law on Official Relations, about civil servants who are a major reform procedure. But no professionalization has been delayed. I initially said that many institutes already operate from the reception to the competition, from the public publication of rights, the employment plan. From the work of the State Service Committee. So now against the Secretary's solution, the officials decide and monitor the legality of the solution. Here I have answered Mr. Vice President and Madam Representatives to read again what the bill says. To repeat publicly once again what our intentions are and I think it is, it can't be a cleaner situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82732	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. The Honorable Representative of the Koreans.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82733	It is incorrect that it is not a matter of ex-post mind, as in the discussions in 2004, Mr. Secretary of State requested that both local and regional self-government be regulated, the handover of authorities. Then you didn't appreciate it and you knew the local elections were coming in less than a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82734	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82735	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know, normative optimism is a good thing. The belief that the laws will change the practice of the Vikings exists. This law belongs to the category of those laws where either the two-thirds majority or the general consensus in this House of the High will change the law in 25 minutes after the urgent procedure and these big words expressed in favour of the proposal will actually remain as one memory that will gradually disappear. Practice is important here. I'll give you two examples for practice. Our respected Secretary of State, Antun Palaric, Bismarck, who was Pankretic's State Secretary. But the new government found him to be an expert man. And he shows by his actions that he is a very professional man. So professional that it will be one of the few state officials whose picture will be found in my book "A flight above the coward's nest". So the second example is my neighbor, Željko Ledinski, who was president of the management of the Croatian Forests. I've been to him as some kind of dissident of the eternal regime. I thought he was an expert man. That he knows and loves the woods. But when the new government came he uninvited and put his mandate at his disposal. The intention is unquestionably positive. As in the Laws on State officials and officials, in the Laws on Conflicts of Interest, the repression of corruption is made a limit between those competing according to professional criteria and those being set up according to the relations of political forces. I have some experience in handing over and receiving power. In the 1990s, I have to say, it was the most enjoyable way of handing over and receiving power. We thank Mr. Ivo Latin, Angelka Runjic and Mr. Ivica Racan. The opportunity is to wish him well on this occasion, to return to us very soon. When we came they wanted to get rid of the authorities, but the new government wanted to make this distinction between political and professional at the first moment. That's why you're receiving... We haven't decided on lustrations, but it's a sad fact that the least people have been replaced since the 1990s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the budgets that I was doing at that time, about three and three and a half thousand people. When the government came on January 3, 2000, it appeared as one big,... Tsunami. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They thought all the people before them were selling bunnies and they started cleaning everything up. Deans, prodigals, rectors, head of the clinic. They put in secretaries, secretaries and so on. That's very bad, gentlemen. And in that respect it should be very empirically precise. There's no such thing as a big hoot. When, in the very understanding of the authorities, there are three fundamental concepts of power. The first is to take power as a naked force and a kidnapping. That understanding is unfortunately with us still dominant at all levels. The second is the understanding of the authorities as serving their own people and tax payers or bonds and the third is the cold-blooded trial of professional affairs. Such a distinction exists between the mentality of government officials and officials in all professions. My colleague Hebrang will say, he will know that there is a category of people in the medical profession called handholders. Who pay with their own patients and still wouldn't let them operate on his own mother or aunt. And there are cold professionals who are brilliant professionals. And there are people halfway. So who have a soul and who are experts like Professor Andrija Hebrang. So in that sense, I think big troubles come to us because the understanding of the government reflects the attitude of civil society. There are three mental gatherings in political culture. The first one is a mental set of sub-data culture. He is unfortunately present in Croatia at all levels. Of the highest peaks of government "I love the hands of the merciful Austria, Italy, the European Union, I worship Mr NATO". There is a second understanding means parochial culture. She's breaking through with us. Hire a member of the clan, a man from the neighborhood. Make in Zagreb holding, privatize the entire capital. That's what pisses you off. So you gentlemen can do whatever you want if we don't develop a political culture on one side and we don't develop a competition as one virtue to come forward. I have repeated several times that competitions in the European Union, in the European bureaucracy, look today. In one place there are 5, 10,000 people, getting better than better. Selection systems are so rigorous that absolute professionals remain at the end of the line. So I want to say the following. I support this, legislator's intensity. However, Mr. Palaric, you are an old civil servant and you know that this normative optimism will not work and that is why I join those who advocate a third reading, to try to make a maximum effort. It may not be a general consensus, but that the law is passed with a two-thirds majority in order not to repeat the situation that we then revolutionary guards have turned into a gentlemen's agreement, and today it is trying to demonise time from the 1990s that the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee claims that there was no lustration in Croatia, but that there was ethnic cleansing. So, people who were actually human rights corphrases at the time have been detained either as professionals or as half-professionals or scarce and no professionals, and therefore I appeal more, and I ask that our great secretary of state be satisfied and sent to the third reading and to make a little effort together and that eventually this law passes as a law of general good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82736	Thank you. Replica esteemed MP Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the public may be doing a few sentences about this part and about what the Honorable counsel of Letica was saying. Well, I don't think anyone's disputed the intensity of this law that she's positive, and after this explanation by the secretary of state, I think we're all aware that one minute this change should happen and those who worked in the state administration, those who worked in executive bodies are aware that this professionalization in our bodies is missing and that it makes it difficult to work together anyway. We have to remember that every time before the elections, it happens that almost six months or maybe more of it doesn't work, the entire administration almost stops. And then again almost a year of new stalking while the system is running and we almost in election years are losing more than a year and a half when almost everything in the state is standing, and I think there should be a certain continuity and experience of many other states making us in that part. Well, I reported primarily to correct here perhaps in some way a respected representative of Letica who first said that Mr. Secretary of State worked as Secretary of State and I can say very commendably did a large part of the job at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Of course, today his role is elsewhere, and let everyone give who they are. It is not true, therefore, that the former government swept all those assistants who were, but certainly there were exceptions, and people were responsible for one part of their work in certain ministries. I think that professionalization will certainly look different in the future. There will be certain political functions to be changed, but there will remain a part of the people who will continue to run the administrations they need to be. I think it will contribute to the future that this I would say a vacuum that always appears before the elections and after the elections will be as short as possible and that then the future authorities will be able to engage as quickly as possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82738	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82739	I'm not personally in favour of developing a system of high-ranking government officials. So, people who can be both defence ministers and health ministers, education and agriculture. So, I'm in favour of some kind of specialization, meaning professionalization plus specialization and that at a time of opposition when people have a lot of time to think and when you're in power you have very little time to think first of all today when the practice is to introduce different these rituals and when mass media through golden eyes and other people are potential to go from the Swedish table to the Swedish table and they don't have time to think. As far as education itself is concerned, I think that Croatia should, as other countries exist, establish one in the Croatian space, a European administrative academy. It means that it will receive this European prerogative and that it is trying to embryo these new state and official who will be selected and state officials by both criteria and by the criteria of knowledge and by the criteria of specialisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82740	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The law on the procedure of handing over the authorities when it was adopted despite objections by the opposition, and the main remark was that it lacked one part of the solution to the handover of the authorities at local levels was expressed, and here we were rejected by the finding or by the explanation that this would be resolved by a special law. Thus, the Law on the process of handing over authorities, as it has been repeatedly noted here, was adopted in 2004. The government hasn't changed since there hasn't been a election yet, but here's the change of the Law on the procedure of handing over power. These explanations, which are cited in addition to these amendments, are otherwise presented in the public opinion of this amendment as complementing the adopted 2004 law, that there is an identical situation from a state level to be transferred, i.e. to a local level. So that's what we've been looking for before when the law is passed, and there's not much to object to. However, here with this amendment as such along the way but a very important change which is wrongly interpreted by the motionor here is an amendment that the Deputy Government Secretary, the secretary of the ministry, or the deputy ministers themselves and the prime ministers of the Government Office are no longer persons who need to give their mandate at their disposal. That's what the law says. That is also said in the light of this proposal. But somehow all the bells didn't exactly go into propagating the amendments to this law and the explanations or affirmation of this change. So, then, there's a question of what the election is all about. Under the bill now, the ministers and prime ministers would remain alone. The question is until the election whether they too will be affected on amendments to the Law on the procedure of handing over authorities on their immutability. So the logical question here is that this is what he was talking about, fellow Kovacevic, on behalf of HSP, why the elections in the first place, the elections are expensive. Or we just need democracy by the time we get to power. Afterwards, we don't need any more democracy. But of course, from some zero point of view and some congested state should begin. It's quite understandable and it's for acceptance, and even if it happened after 2003, but if the government were already acting in that sense. And that means people are coming in who are professional. And there is no need to question which are the internal political commitment. But unfortunately, that's not the case. Is there going to happen to us the same situation that hit us in the '90s with the judge's shift? So when they were all changed then they became, then their inability became a constitutional category. Therefore, a fairer and more adequate title of this law should be the Law on cementing the authorities. Because the government does not behave in the spirit of adopting and presummating the adoption of this law on his conduct. So let's just remember the situation where the State Audit found no single objection, and there was no real objection to any head of which the bodies or ministries were numerous objections, only to that person who had been replaced. And then when you have such behaviour and a desire to end the politicization of the service, then it's hard to believe that those who have come really on a political basis here are no longer just not officials, although they are left with the coefficient as an official, but now become officials to camouflage their expertise. And on the other hand, professional people who have been working for years, and this is a good and commendable proposal from fellow Letica, so it is indeed in one advanced and stable democracy to take good care of the civil servants and tenants who are the pillar of each society's arrangement. When they function, of course, they're not too overloaded, then they're not just the judiciary. Because then we don't, because there isn't a country that has a million and 600 to a million and 800 thousand cases coming to justice. That means management doesn't work in a stable way right now. Therefore, this law is not sufficient. It re-enters, will not achieve what is verbalized that it can be achieved if the environment, the political environment, is quite different. So, in some ways, each election brings unrest to civil servants and tenants, most of all in those who are most conscious and who have no other commitment but to build a career right in the civil service and to advance. To us, Croatia so needs such a special education. Let's just think of France, so law schools are second to how high schools and colleges are. That a civil servant, that a civil servant knows what predetermined rules are that he can plan and commit himself to just making progress, devote himself to that service. And that's what we're all saying is that we need it and we need it in that sense and we need it to behave. But then we do something else. It has already been pointed out here in this remark that Mršić pointed out. So those who didn't come are now favoring the inti, so they're not the ones who came on the basis of ads or competitions, that's good. Many also acted as conscientious authorities at local levels. Many have predicated one behavior like this. But those who didn't act that way are now proposing we've replaced them now, but that's enough. It's not something that's promising. So in no way could those who are not adequately come in such a way be cemented by their position, their position, their position. That is why this provision of Article 3 for us, for me and for the entire SDP club, which he was talking about on behalf of the SDP club, is not acceptable. This is a good solution in Article 4 where certain units of local self-government and their authorities can do exactly what they can at the time of the election. And I note, many conscientious and competent authorities have acted just like this because they have other things to do. So why should we engage in competition, call and open certain programs that logically, naturally, therefore need not at all one law but elemental decency, not to mention the logic of waiting for a future power, but only the jobs that are necessary. Now that's what we're talking about here. But we have authorities who have spent the budget for the advance, they have created such projects in four years. Mr. Secretary of State, explaining this proposal, said that this legislative proposal is also taking into account the removal, i.e. the achievement of the fight against corruption, i.e. the national programme. But what the state was obliged to do by the basis of a national programme relating to local self-government by 6 months of enhanced control, so it is taxingly listed here 6 tasks that the government should have done, the government should have done so against the units of local self-government. She didn't do one. Then that scale makes a bad message. And this is just one side law that can contribute in that sense, and it is well and well explained. But if the government itself has not done some express duty in this regard to the units of local self-government, then it is hard to believe that it is also wanted to be achieved by this law. I will point out once again that if there were to be a case for those who have been treated so far, so the appointment itself, without advertising, without competition, to suddenly become civil servants, then to open up the issue of their rewards and rewards, i.e. the coefficient. You can't get the same coefficient, so you should work out a whole one then difference of pay grade. But the fact is that one service, the state service must have one continuity, but it is questionable whether it is possible to do so to those who have come by appointment, not based on voice and competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82742	Replica, honourable representative and vice president of the House, Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82743	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues of Anticevic allow me to add in a whole series of your arguments another argument that should take into account and that should not be passed at this session of this law. Namely, the Law on the handover of authorities would have to address, among other things, certain issues related to cases of disbanding municipal and city councils or county assemblies when the Government adopts such a measure in accordance with the law. What's going on? You have amazing things, and the most obvious or recent example of such behaviour is, for example, the behaviour of Commissioners in Slavonski Brod, who are not only in the management and spending money on local government budgets but also in the encroachment of fundamental rights, and among other things, the Commissioner in Slavonski Brod announces that he will disband all elected councils of local self-government in the town of Slavonski Brod, so the parties must react in such a situation already through presses to warn him that he is not doing so. Because he means to himself that he includes and does all those rights and has all those rights that have the representative body of the local self-government unit during his performance. Therefore, it should also ensure that, during this transitional period, it is 60 days from the disbanding of the city council to holding new elections, that the Government's Commissioner in such cases can and should only carry out technical tasks for that local self-government unit, that it can work not to stop life without entering political and other issues and that this issue should be resolved. This law does not have, it should be settled and it is one of the additional arguments or reasons why it should not be voted on at this stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82744	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82745	Yes, a colleague, with this bill of law when it is in the obligation of the executive authority of the head of the body, then the team previously applies to the one that is only temporarily placed there. But since nothing is predicated or assumed by us, something that a logical interpretation of a particular provision can and can conclude is certainly necessary because it wasn't just a case here, it's unfortunately a common practice, and unfortunately it often happens. But then the question and actions of the central office are asked to control such situations. The Central Office must treat everyone equally independently whether that authority is identical to the central government or not. And that case that, in his speech on behalf of the club, said counterpart Arlovic, so the head of one body he can praise and support the government's moves, that's something that's meant to be. But the person also talked about the results of the election, so he did the bear a favor for the current prime minister. Because there shouldn't be a greater Pope than the Pope.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82746	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82747	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, it's a shame you're leaving, but they're understandable about the relationship, no. So, of course, today when we talk about the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the handover of the Government, we must certainly ask ourselves certain questions or better put into question certain answers, why is this law here before us. That's what we used to say in our first reading. But at the outset, I'm going to say two remarks that I think I should make for the future, but also what we said about some other laws, somehow respect. In fact, we're talking here about a law that's tied to five, six other laws that were recently in the procedure or that might still be. And that's exactly why it would be convenient for us to once at the plenary session to have all the laws that solve one question or at least a part of their own self-government business or something like that. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because there are certain provisions here that simply comply with the laws that were previously under discussion, and among other things, it seems to me that writing this law should include people who have been directly in these last ten years, in the executive authority of the units of local or regional self-government. Because there are some things that people who have acted simply know, and you here who write the laws well, but you haven't been in front of the council council or council or council or city councils for four years, so you heard what they're asking and what questions they need to ask and what they're supposed to be doing there, what reports they're reporting. That's why I'm going to start with Article 1 that's clean. I think I'm missing it. It is said that this law regulates the process of handing over state authorities and executive powers, etc. as of the day of the parliamentary elections. However, when these powers are mentioned here by the executive bodies of the local and regional self-government units," he writes until the post of municipal chiefs following the elections. So I think that it should also be written from the day of the scheduled regular elections for the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of Zagreb, that is understood. But we can't leave it out. We need to define a time period. So that'll be my amendment, too. I'm sure you have to accept that because it's an unspeakable article. Then comes article 3 which speaks of what duties or which officials now become officials. That's good. Most of them will probably vote for it. The next parliamentary elections will come and what will happen. It is possible that the new parliamentary majority will change the law. It is even possible that this Assistant Minister, for example, will not be a state official, but I assure you whether he is the Director or what, he will be politically elected. Well, you can't expect that, or let's not fool ourselves better like that, that the new music will be broken by old musicians. So who's going to implement the politics of the new government? Those who come politically must be ready in advance to go politically and go away. If it's going to work well and it's going to stay, that's understood. Following this, Article 4 which processes Article 10 of that original law, which speaks of the procedure of handing over executive powers in units of local and regional self-government and when implemented. It's okay. However, he says, in the process of handing over executive powers, the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb, as well as the headship of the local and regional self-government units to which the mandate ends, must submit a written report on the performance of the affairs of its work. I suppose this applies only to this transitional period when it will be the first regular local elections. After that, there's no more headship. So who do we write for? Well, I'll remind you, that's what you wrote from the state administration. In the light of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it was written that the law abolished the headship. That's what it says here. As it will eventually be, the new mayor, mayor or mayor will set up, whether the law will be regulated differently, but the headships will no longer be. Or if it's going to be responsible, it'll be solely for the Chief. No more like the Council or the Assembly. It's going to be completely different. Is the mayor going to find that his headmasters are in some kind of call new headship, I don't know. But that headship will surely be held accountable only to its chief or mayor. So, in my opinion, the headship here is really questionable, or if it is, then it should be brought into line with a number of other laws that are related to this topic. Also, when we talk about a written report, it makes sense that it's only good in some environments, it's been in practice for a number of years. I will tell the Varazdin County where the headship before the assembly twice a year submits a written report on its work, and once a year on the work of all administrative bodies. So, the certified reports only subscribe to the new term of office and that is, in fact, the written report. However, I repeat, for the future as these laws are written these laws should be defined whether reports should be verified, whether they should be submitted to the assembly or, therefore, to the representative body and so on. But it seems to me that there has been a lot of talk here about the issue of depoliticalisation and professionalization in the administration. I think that this simple way of turning officials into officials or the obligations and prohibitions that are written in these laws will not be achieved. I don't know how often you were able to come at the beginning of your term and think about what to do. You see, the people you need to start working with, you have your ideas and you need to start a new mandate. And there are simple solutions. The law is not forbidden anywhere that you can or cannot create new systems. Create a new systematization, call a tender for those people you need or for those places you need and solve the problem if you want. Those officers that please you just translate them and you're done talking. Well, it can also be done at the end of the day and at the state level. The government, the new ministries, the new organization, and we solved the problem. So if someone wants someone there's a way and this simple law on the handover of power won't get rid of it. And how many times do we have to say that? If it's for the European Union, okay, let's write the assistant ministers won't be state officials, they'll be officials. But I'm telling you again. They won't be the ones who'll be doing the work. They're going to be working for the head of some department or something. We all know that. Thanks to the dear God in Varazdin County, there is a certain political culture, and I would say careful selection of people who will work because after my first term of office when Col. Mlinarić came, no one was fired because people were chosen on the principles of expertise. When Mlinaric handed over his term to me in the third term, no one was fired. I had two head of the HDZ, secretary of the HDZ chiefship. So why would people get fired when they're doing good? They're just implementing the policy they're being imposed on. Here, so I want to say this way we really won't solve the basic problem. But let us also be objective that there are ways that the ignorant and the unemployed who have come through the political process will certainly not find their refuge in any government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82748	Thank you. Replica, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82749	Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sabati. I believe that the more lapus you want to say the more you say when you say that who's going to implement the new government's policy, the more you're going to ask yourself a question. That's exactly what these people and any government can't do. The administration must not implement politics, must not respect the principle of political opportunity, it must act on the principle of constitutionality and legality, it must be effective, it must be rational, it must be professional. It must not be bribed or better said, it must be eliminated from corruption and bribery and it has no tolerance in that segment. It has to be at zero level. And what is especially to be pointed out, the administration, unlike natural and legal persons, can and must do what is in law and expressly empowers and citizens and legal persons can do what is forbidden by law. And in this respect, we should finally understand that the administration must definitely start to implement the principle of constitutionality and legality, not the principle of political opportunity. Unfortunately, I must say that in the conduct of the administration at the level of local self-government, but also at the level of the state administration and until the headship of the Office of State Administration has often been replaced by the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of political opportunity. And even to giving views and views on the disbanding of certain city councils and municipal councils related to the calling of extraordinary elections, where unfortunately bodies who have done their job are not believed among other things, but by the Office of State Administration the procedure for additional checks is launched, additional questions. For example, the municipalities of Oroslavje where the municipal council was disbanded, although it was determined by a special police order by the state administration to check that the pressure had been placed on a councilwoman who resigned, withdrew the position, etc. Although prior to that, the Office of State Administration itself received information and data from the State Attorney's Office, a paper that actually criminalised the pressure on the work of a councilman was not available. You see, these are the things that must definitely be eliminated and this procedure and this law will not solve, and that is not a question that is of interest to this party or that party. This is a question of interest for the democratic and constitutional development of the Republic of Croatia, for the rule of law, for the control of corruption and of course for strengthening all segments of the social community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82750	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82751	Of course, I might go in reverse order. I agree that this law will not resolve depoliticalisation, ultimately and professionalisation, but in the desire that as I say more clearly I was not clear enough who would implement the policy of the new government, the new municipal, urban or county administrations... The authorities still have the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, of course, I'm just saying that simply abolishing office posts, assistant minister, for example or assistant director, will not solve the problem of depoliticalisation or professionalization. Certainly, the professional and cooperative administration must do a job that its policy in some way, which is founded by the laws. Even now, if he comes with his pre-election promise to the new mayor, the mayor, the mayor, so if it goes to both the political party and the prime minister's candidates, they'll want to implement their policy, and they want to have people who will be ready and staff to do it, but that doesn't mean a shift in management. I'm just talking about the leaders who... They're the chiefs of these commissioners and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82752	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is of course I think it is also the content of this theme of the Law on Taking over of Government, and it has touched at least in parts of the debate of some colleagues and those most concerned in nature because here it is constantly talking about the relationship between political options today and tomorrow, how the political options will react after the handover of the authorities, what will be the relationship with officials, deputies, state officials, etc. So there's the impression that the only participants in the handover of the political party's government are, and that's simply not true. The most important participants are citizens. Public government exists for the sake of citizens. Of course, through political elections, political parties are given a mandate to manage through politics and those instruments that have policies to try to regulate the best quality and easier life of citizens. The most important instruments are laws and regulations, at the level of legislative bodies and, of course, officials and deputies and state officials are obliged to implement policy when we talk about politics. So what kind of government officials and deputy administrations wouldn't do politics? And then, of course, they wouldn't enforce the regulations or laws that that same policy has passed. Therefore, if we are to help fully demystify this issue, we will be very hard to regulate with legal proposals what simply the law can sometimes and cannot be regulated, because the law cannot regulate that ethics is present with each official, with each government and not even prescribed by a certain legal norm. We can't prescribe courtesy and something that belongs to a culture of behavior by law. However, of course, we must at the level of all those countries that have covered these chapters with regulations and laws and we must do so. I personally believe that this amendment and the addition of the law to the fundamental law is welcome. Of course, issues that have remained open and will remain open concern the wider consensus of relations in our society. They are simply the result, namely nothing is an island and neither is this segment of total political life in Croatia. It could be an island that's isolated from everything else. This is a living body that lives in the overall social reality of our society. Therefore, the development of a common society, development and democracy within that society will also contribute to the development of this segment by identifying the general interests of the handover, i.e. taking over the power of one party coalition from another coalition. Of course, it is good to regulate the border where expertise begins, and where politics ceases when it comes to internal relations either in the executive, or in the legislative authority. Of course, only practice can show and prove that limit and such existence. In fact, there is one thing worse than that when an officer is in the role of rough policy, when his opportunism is on the side of politics, and it is not on the side of the legality of work and action. There's a worse case. I think we in Croatia have a worse case than that, which is when an administrative bureaucratic apparatus works against the policy that is in power, and of course it does not work in favour of that policy that is in opposition. That's what you call it. the famous creation of a third body. So when an administrative bureaucratic apparatus has taken up such positions that no policy can do anything to it, when it has left so much alone under quotes that simply any government will come to Croatia that certain positions when it comes to the financial policy of the Republic of Croatia, the monetary policy system of the Republic of Croatia, and also certain segments in the economy are simply taboo topics and there is no government definitively, even though not so far that it has seriously wanted to deal with these problems that our citizens see when you ask them. So there is no power, no cocensus, there is a consensus that no one wants to get involved in solving the most serious problems in this society, and no one has the strength to say that, this problem in our society exists, and that's a problem bigger than politics, bigger than the handover of the government, bigger than that officer who's going to work because he's being set up by HSS or HDZ or SDP, that's a bigger problem. This is a problem that needs to be tackled primarily in order for these technical problems to be addressed, and these are primarily technical problems of ways of taking over, staffing, setting up, putting those professional personnel so that no one changes them, and nobody should change them if they are correct, quality and fair in doing their job. However, these previous issues are raised as global political issues that burden the entire system, and then break down various subvariants through them, where we come to technically dispute whether it is good that the Government has now installed what is now being sought, whether it should have happened sooner or later? In my opinion, that's pretty irrelevant. But it is important to establish a public authority that will implement policy requirements, and the policy implements citizens' demands, because the elections give it trust or mistrust. However, any policy, of course, is scheduled for what is most difficult and does not implement what is in fact the worst problem of this society. I've led some of them here. I'm going to name another small problem when it comes to one finding in the economy and it's called marine well-being. The maritime well-being in Croatia today accounts for 1/3 of the total territory of the Republic of Croatia. Various laws to date, amendments to the Maritime Code, etc., have always left space to never fully, precisely, clearly and correctly define what is right, what is protection of investors and what is universal understanding, what can be, what cannot be on the maritime good? There are always famous lobbies that, in both this and that government, through this or that clerk, an expert bought, unpurchased prove that exactly what you want, it's not good. So what's the deal? It works the way it was, and before the election, we all claimed it wasn't right. And then we keep going round and round, so that the technical solutions can solve that thing that technique can't solve. We will technically very easily agree on this technical proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities. But we're not going to solve anything with that. Therefore, the policy that has been given the task of government, it has responsibility, it needs to improve the situation in society, in all segments. Of course, it can't work if there are bad employees, if there are bad officials and if she hasn't arranged the infrastructure that she can implement her policy. Of course, the law should help to solve all issues universally, those that can technically be solved and the key thing to say is to resolve policy determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82754	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Beatunach.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I think Mr. Markov has asked certain questions of principle and that I agree very well with. It is certainly an act of handing over authorities and thus proposed in this amendment and the addition of the law will be at a certain high civil and political level. That's not questionable. But what happens after that? After the very act of handover, I think that certain dilemmas, where Mr. Markov, who you have presented here, can be seen as dilemmas that he will suffer, and with whom we will have problems or citizens, and after the next local elections, national elections, etc., and that is the question of those people who should be the backbone of the work of the city administration in some way... and development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is about leaders who are doing their job professionally and who have been elected, who have become civil servants or municipal officials, city officials and have been admitted indefinitely. I, speaking with many people at local level, find that question rather questionable. This bill of law doesn't treat him, he's already been dealt with by other laws. But in any case, it would personally be advocated that the heads of city, municipal services and also at the county level, when it comes to the heads of state, share the fate of the executive authority or the fate of the mayor, the mayor. I think that would be better. However, the intensity of the legislation, the proposings, is precisely that this issue is finally resolved in one appropriate way and will certainly be resolved through the tenders that we will get that quality but there will always be possibilities and options for changing the systemisation, that these issues will be politicised and that this bill will make all the dilemmas and all the moments that appear in the specific life and work of the local self-government units will be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82756	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82757	Thank you very much. So I think we almost all agree here that some, some line that should separate bad practice from good practice must exist. Of course, it's hard to pull back and say now it's going to be this line and it's going to be all the way we want it to be behind it. Of course, respecting political realities and respecting the political pragmatism of every political party. But I'm afraid without a kind of cultural illustration, when we draw that line, we'll have a very hard time setting the right direction for ourselves. In fact, when I say illustrations, I take it as a syntagma to try to say that expertise, all those working qualities, everything that is positive should be on that side and we should close this rough and primitive political way and experience and set up an administrative hierarchy. Therefore, we too do not need to avoid this illustration just to avoid hearing it. Of course, it has its very positive and well-founded reasons why it happened somewhere. Just like we have to discuss why it didn't happen. However, if we really want to make changes, then the time between one and the other choices is the best time to publicly state what these changes should bring to those most concerned, and these are citizens. And how will citizens react to these changes? Because they're absolutely looking for a responsible, fast and efficient public administration. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82758	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82759	Dear Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! This law has two parts of what is ultimately called. So, there is a part of the amendments and has been part of the addition of the Law on the handover of authorities, because I repeat, we passed that law in 2004 and it came into force on 20 July 2004. Apparently, the government saw that the bad text of the law had been directed into the parliamentary procedure and here it was defended and the ruling majority defended it because in a year and a half, it again demanded that this Assembly amend this text of the law before the text of the law had any effect at all. Not only to change it, but to supplement it this time. It is not clear to me why some state officials are being deleted from Article 6 of the original text of the law and put them in Article 5 of the amendment of this law. What is the reason for this change? If the reason is not to cement the state and further politicise the state administration then there is no reason to make these changes, the amendments to the law. Because if Article 6 of the original text of the law says that the Deputy Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Secretary of the Ministry, the Head of the Government's Office must make the mandate available. And now here in Article 3 we say to delete it from Article 6 where he has to put it. And in Article 5, we say again, "Now he has to put it back on." So what is it... With the same, same amendments and additions to the law in one article, we say you do not have to put a mandate at your disposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the second article of the law, we say, "Ee must make it available." So there's no need for this law to change. If the Secretaries of the Ministry, the Head of the Government's Office does not, they must put a mandate at their disposal. If they don't have to, then I think they put some completely wrong or wrong, wrong intentions. No matter what the secretary of state says, this is the poetic text of the law. You know? I don't know if he's in law enforcement or if he's poetic in his explanation. Because if the reasoning of Article 3 states: "This provision proposes to amend Article 6 of the law in a way that those who need to put a mandate at their disposal are deleted from the list of officials." I do not see that poetry. And Article 5 says here: "Who has to put a mandate at their disposal" and lists the same officials in the government. Well, that's absurd, gentlemen. And I suggest you delete it completely if it says it's not cementing. Secondly, there is no reason for the law on the handover of authorities to define the handover of executive powers in units of local and regional, regional self-government. Imagine we say that such, uh, edits the process of handing over state authorities and executive powers to local self-government units. If it's government, then it's local government. If the executive powers are in local self-government, then the executive powers are also at the state level. What difference does it make between government and chieftains? Basically, it's either power or not power? Either they're executive powers or they're not executive powers? We're here dealing with what happens after 19 May 2009? And today, civil servants and tenants in local self-government are asking what's wrong with us today? Why doesn't the government finally propose a Law on local officials and tenants to be a regulated status of officials and subsistence in local self-government? Well, then you have a completely absurd situation to mention a chapter that may not be because when this law is in force, there will be no heads. The mayors will be elected directly by the local self-government units. So you have the absurdity to say that the mandate is made available and that something will happen within 15 days and that after the next elections if, if, "which would have to pass the laws directly by choice", then the mayor or the directly elected head of the local self-government unit will be elected after the elections, or 48 hours after the elections are announced, and the representative bodies will be established within 30, 60 days. So this article 10.d is completely unusable for the situation because it implies that the council will first be established, and only then select the leaders of the local self-government units. It's like we're not gonna pass a law of direct choice. If we are to pass a direct choice law, then it is necessary to change it and see who will in the future appoint representatives of local self-government units in companies that are of particular interest to those units of local self-government. This law, among other things, fully ignores the company law because it raises the question of what it means for example to be a member of the Supervisory Board under the Company Act that he has put his mandate at the disposal of the person he has appointed. It was appointed by the Assembly of the Commercial Society. Hence, he or she resigns and is resolved by the congregation of the company. Or there he says to someone, "You know, come on, come on, look, deal with this or that with the congregation." What will be the stability of the business of the company during that period when the mandate is put at the disposal of whatever it means under the Law on Commercial Companies and the moment when new members of the Assembly, the established assembly of the company, appointed members of the Supervisory Board, will be appointed. You know, the Company Act defines precisely when someone becomes something in a company and when someone stops in that company, in a congregation, or in a supervisory, supervisory board of a company. What about companies that are not from, declared of interest for the Republic of Croatia or for units of local self-government. And where now the officers and the tenants will be able to sit on the boards of directors. Is that what this is about? No, I don't. These things were simply left for someone, for some free interpretation. So no one's got a problem with that. However, let us once depolitize the state administration primarily because local self-government or local self-government administrations are much less politicised than the state administration. Because in the end you in local self-government sometimes have problems getting to quality people? But that's what you should say then let's call a contest for everyone or for what we're about to discuss. Let's name people in these places based on the contest and then check their expertise. If they're inextricable, we'll replace them tomorrow. And their expertise or intricacies will be measured by the results of work rather than by political belonging to a party. But we can't legally define that today someone is an official, and tomorrow they'll be the same official or deputy. It's inadmissible to happen with the law. I appeal to the government or to the motionary to withdraw this law. Because if you really don't, we don't cement the condition there's no need to change it. And I call on the government, finally write down the Law on local officials and tenants, a lot will be solved. The question of the head which is one of the burning issues today, not 2009. There will be a lot of competitions for the leaders throughout Croatia by 2009. Let us pass a new Law on Local Self-Government for a future period of 2009 which will solve the handover of local government authorities. Because today with two articles, why describe a whole new state. You know, today formally we say that the mayor or mayor has to file a report on something. No, the chieftains must report on what is happening today because the mayor and the mayor do not have the authority to make decisions. But in the future, they'll have it. Therefore, do not define the handover of executive powers here, no matter what it means. In local self-government, suggest a new Law on local officials and tenants, a new Law on Local Self-Government, a new Law on Elections in Local Self-Government, and get rid of how someone is elected, how someone is replaced, and who is available in this handovernment of executive powers in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82760	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82761	What you are saying to your colleague Mršić about the inapplicability and absurdity of the provision of Article 10b. There should indeed be one warning to the Government in an impossible situation in which only the Central Office itself will be located tomorrow in the event of the interpretation and application of this provision. As you told your colleague Mršić that this provision of Article 10b. prejudges the situation of direct elections, i.e. following the direct election of the unit leader of local self-government. We have seen this law come into force, but it will only apply after the next regular local elections, and here this law together with this provision 10b. He enters the eighth day, and this is the final proposal, on the eighth day after the publication in the National Journal. So don't consciously, so I know that even in the making of laws, proposals, we can miss a technical thing here as a legislative body. But here, when you're already warned about it and you insist on it, then someone has to be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82762	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82763	Well, my thesis is that these amendments to the law, i.e. to the laws relating to local self-government, serve as an excuse to cement the state of state officials, and that is something that will certainly be changed before the next regular local elections because, in the meantime, if there is a sense, a set of legislation on local self-government will be passed that will define all these things, and then there will be no need for one law called the Law on the handover of the government to define something that happens on local self-government. Otherwise, it would be good to decide whether what concerns local self-government will be defined by the State Administration Act, both at the state level, or whether we will be working on two laws because when we passed the Law on State Administration, that is, state officials, we said that the law does not apply to local officials and tenants. Thus, we decided to pass a special law for local officials and tenants. Unfortunately, it is not passed, and now that this law is properly applied to these officials and subsistence officers in local self-government, we say that we will define it by this law. So let's be consistent. We're passing separate laws. One that will be for the state administration or for the government and something called the Laws of Local Self-Government or what poetic executive powers would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82764	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mršić, this is a gray zone, and any of us wants to admit or not talk about local administration and self-government, and our executive authority does. Namely, not regulating the status of any mayor, mayor, all those officers to the end, not applying the law, because there is no way to steal it, steal it, and the situation on the ground is so different from the opposition leaders to those who are subject to the authorities and actually the government's favorites that this is a very big difference. In this '95 Parliament. the year is required to be regulated by law until the end of each official, furniture, etc. a place in this local self-government. Our promises are all the time that when we ask for clarifications about the head of a small local unit, you can do as you know, discuss the competitions as you know, write down whatever you want. The only thing they told the mayor was that he couldn't pay more than I don't know the assistant minister and that's the end of the story. I'm asking you who needs it, and why is that? I speak from my experience because all the time the government is going through the woods and we're going to the road. We're dealing with these pathways that are a major obstacle to us and we function as we know it, until it's regulated. That's why, all together, if the government's trio is respected, then there's a supreme, representative and legislative authority at all levels, and we don't have the authority. I have authority, I assure you because I've chosen the captain based on it and that and my responsibilities are accordingly. And I can't have any adjectives, epithets, etc. So let's respect that from mountain to mountain level.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82766	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82767	So here's the problem that wants us all to show that we're all the same, and then we're even going to say that we're all the same dirty, or that in the same way, a certain amount of mud has been placed on all of us because in this irregularity of relationships between the state government and local self-government, and then certain relationships within local self-government where there is therefore this creativity and freedom is coming about these abuses. Well, we've heard in the debate today, you know, they're all like this, they're all like this. If it were to be regulated then you would know who really respects the law and works by law and who does not comply with the law and does not act by law, so there would be the possibility that the Office of State Administration, Government or someone third would sanction it in a certain way. Today it's not like that, and that's not what this law says. Look, we're talking about the mayor, the mayor and their deputies here, for example. So what about the councilmen, what about the members of the headship that are sitting today, for example, in the congregations of companies. Does a councilman sitting in a company’s congregation have to put a mandate at his disposal or not? Does a member of the headship have to put a mandate at his disposal or not? So it's totally one of those, but this law doesn't serve to be depoliticalized. It is this law that serves to further cement the state that exists today. If you don't want to, or if that's not the point, we have a law that's good. We have the Law on the handover of a good authority, which said that state secretaries, secretaries of the ministry, the heads of the government's office must put a mandate at their disposal, and why we now say they don't have to, and yet they don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82768	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In his debate, Mrsic confirmed the arguments that this government's later mind is at stake. But what worries me a lot more. From this debate of yours, I ask you, Mršić, whether you went through the association of local self-government and regional governments to the Central State Administration and to the Government with arguments that you should pass the Law on local officials and tenants by bringing some unnecessary, cause. Obviously, your opinion is that some changes in this law are unnecessary. It's coming, of course they're cosmetics to cement the state. But obviously someone in bodies and in government has enough free time to pass laws that are not essential right now and will help local and regional self-government function better. But no laws are passed that are important and would benefit local and regional self-government to make it work better and better. So one more question. Did you initiate that? And to hear perhaps your reasons why these laws are not passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82770	Thank you. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It is up to the distinguished representative, Antun Kapraljevic. We'll continue our afternoon work. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's to say a few words about this amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the procedure of handing over power. Since it's one in a series of those laws that we've changed with the intention of turning government officials into civil servants, in discussions when amending those other laws, I said it was a law on the management of HDZ hawks. I remain with that finding, but I am still supplementing it, that it is the law on the provision of political listeners because that level that was previously defined, which is the state level, has now fallen little to local self-government units and is no longer just part of HDZ's infrastructures, but others are now represented. In his address, Mr Palaric said a few nice things, that they suggested it because the new government would have a clean situation so that all of this had been misinterpreted before and eventually ordered that a poetic good law be written in order to be understood for everyone. But I think that writing that poetic law took a little more literary freedom so they didn't include mathematics in the whole story. Because it doesn't say anywhere how many current officials, current state officials and officials will be turned into government officials, either at local level, after this law. At the state level, however, it is almost and easy to count it, but I argue that in the Central State Office I can't even count it because when I asked the Committee for Conflict of Interest, I could never get that list of state officials, so I'm sure they wouldn't count this too easily. And as for the local level, they certainly have no idea how many and what number it is, because it is all about those who are the heads of some offices, and they are also members of the headship. Mr Palarić's explanation that it is mostly imputed or not known that it is all politicised does not stand, as Article 5 says very nicely that persons found in the performance of the duties referred to in paragraph 1 of this article continue to carry out their duties until they are appointed as deputies on the basis of the invitation to tender and so on. The question is, what are these officials after the contest? First day after the contest. Whether they stay working or going home. According to this interpretation of the law, they all remain to work. But then there's no talk of rationalization, and yet there's a speech about duplication, so twice as many people as it is now because they all have to stay within the law, they have to stay in the workplace. And that's why I'm still saying that this part, at least this part of the law, is this part of the amendments and the addition of the laws in any case is fostering similar ones. Because if it weren't, then it would be known the day they have to go and the way they go and the way they go and the way they go. Based on this, none of them have to leave, we can try to move them and we can tell them to go to the street, but in any case, they'll be brought back to any court. And all those obedients, all the likes of whom I called it, the hawks, who have come politically to certain functions now will be cemented their status and will be turned from similar to capable. That's how you don't get capable. You know how to get to a place like that. And secondly, I understand very well what I'm saying, if you told me that I don't understand, I understand what I'm saying very well. And you, if you don't understand Article 5, ask for an interpretation when you adopt the law. As for the other irregularities in the law, some of us will try to correct the amendments, but I don't believe that this is something like this that needs to be corrected by amendment at all. In my opinion, it should be given to the third reading and to clear up all these misunderstandings that appear here, but I'm just going to mention some. Let's say the different contents of the report that are prescribed for local self-government units and different national levels. One should submit such reports, and the other should submit some different reports and not say that there is no time limit for these reports to be submitted, which is the time limit when they should submit all these reports, it does not say anywhere. Then, in local self - government units, no one puts a mandate on the table, which is, say, a situation where one is a member of the headship and headmaster. What about his mandate? In the next election, if we choose the mayors, mayors and mayors directly, does that mean that they will inherit their principals who have stayed from before? I don't know how long it's been fixed, and I don't know how much that makes sense at all. Then we restricted the conclusion of a contract by units of local self-government with 0.5 or million kuna, at the state level we didn't limit anything and I don't know how you think they'll be able to implement it and how you think and how much they think they can dispose of it during that transitional period. There's no such thing, and it doesn't say anything. Then why do criminal provisions only apply to officials of local self-government units and not to state officials? There are no criminal provisions for government officials anywhere. And why do criminal provisions only for the intolerance of the report, and not for the other violations of the law? It doesn't have the same thing, but only if it doesn't file a report then they're scheduled for a fine of 30 thousand kuna, and it's a little weird because the Law of Infraction says that the maximum penalty for natural persons is 15 thousand kuna. This is why everything I have said and because of these formulations, in particular Article 5, I continue to think that this is a law that needs to be blessed similarly and turned into capable ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82773	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82774	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, this law, the proposed law and the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, you are referring to Article 5. We didn't talk, it's not true that we talked about you, but you warned us about Article 5. This law will not cement the hawks. I know what you're thinking, but it won't even happen what happened on January 3, 2000 when within 15 days you've replaced all that can be replaced in 15 days from... Yes, it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 35 ambassadors you haven't set up in a year and a half. The Ministry of the Interior were, and your witnesses were six months in St. John's Square. Mark. So that I don't speak any further about what happened in the other Croatian institutions and institutions, from the Customs Administration. And on the eve of your election, you shouldn't have done what you did, and you're warning now not to do it. It must not be done by either government, no matter who comes after the next parliamentary elections, and there will be no handover of authorities. Be sure because HDZ will regain the trust of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82775	Thank you. Deputy Secretary of State, final. Mr. Paul Matice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. At the end of this long debate, he would only say a few words. First of all, he would point out that as it is a second reading, it means a final bill proposal, along with the text of the bill, there is also an explanation of all the observations and proposals made in the first reading. This argument shows that all the comments and suggestions made in the first reading are included in the Final Proposal of the Law. We think that this is how we adopted these observations and opinions that were in the first reading, which does not mean that even in the context of the second reading, we cannot make comments and opinions, and that is to say, amendments that have been made. As far as depoliticization is concerned, I would mention once again that it is constantly mentioned, we cannot accept any condition that we now have arranged. Namely, the Law on civil servants brought by this House on 15 July 2005 introduced this institution of depolitisation. So, in 2005, not today, where it is prescribed that, on the day of the government's post after the first parliamentary elections, the office of the secretary of the ministry, the director, director of the ministries, Deputy Secretary of Government, Head of Government, Deputy State Secretary and Deputy Assistant Director of State Administrations, there are jobs of state officials and so far the positions of Assistant Ministers are abolished. So, in 2005, this institution of depoliticalization was installed. The provision of this Article in 151 which I am talking about has also resolved the issue of current officials and those officials who are being resolved in Article 1 of this Article, who were formerly civil servants, have the option if there is a place of employment for which they meet the professional conditions to deploy to a job in the body in which they worked and to another body. And those officials who have been relieved and have not previously been civil servants exercise rights according to which the obligations and rights of government officials are governed. It turns out that it can't be that all the officials we're talking about here are going to become civil servants. The provision of this Act, the provision of the Law on the handover of the Government, is only further under discussion by this institute that we have talked about here and by trying in an even clearer and more precise way to determine the situation in this procedure of the handover of the Government. That's this article 5 we talked a lot about today, that we read here. And Article 3 simply deletes these positions of officials that I have spoken of and which ceases to be in office on the day of entry into force of the new Government. And as for the head of the administrative bodies in the units of local self-government, I think this law, that this is special laws or the Law on local and regional self-government, is governed by the fact that the heads of administrative departments and services are professionals. The last amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government is only prescribed that the heads of administrative departments and services may be members of the headship. Once upon a time, we had an old provision that said that members of the headship could also be headmasters. Now we have a reverse situation. So, the leaders are professionals in accordance with the Law on civil servants and tenants who apply to employees of local self-government units. And the latest changes only made it possible for that headmaster to be a member of the headship, which means when he is relieved and the duties of the headship he remains a professional, remains head of the management department and service. I mean, in that sense, this law is why it doesn't even work. We have already received one part of the amendment, so when the declaration of amendments comes, the Government will declare the amendments submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82777	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what you said about the fact that in 2005, the depolitical institute was practically introduced, so by changing what we were doing back then. No, I don't. That's when the translation began from similar to the politically capable, and the proof of that is that today, Article 5, you just defined the date that this is happening. Just the date of that conversion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82779	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82780	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the procedure for the handover of authorities. First, the club of HSP representatives proposed the following conclusion on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the handover of the Government, a third reading will be carried out on the basis of the conditions laid down in Article 158. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 33 for, 7 abstentions, 49 against. The conclusion was not accepted. A little voter assembly will be useful because a man can vote and then be surprised, so I didn't mean it. Now let's get to the amendments. We have an amendment to Congressman Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82782	Bellimir Sabati is under number three for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82783	It's your floor, it doesn't matter to you what number you're numbered by. It's the amendment of the representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82784	We accept the amendment of Congressman Sabati, but in the formulation that in the fifth row of this paragraph, namely the 2nd row mentions...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82785	All right? ... gallery or ground floor? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82786	In Article 1 in the 5th row, the words "and the regional self-government" are added: "from the day of the opening of the regular elections for the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82787	A fellow Sabbath? You accept. Therefore, in this amended form of amendments accepted. Honorable representative Antun Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82788	We don't accept. A political culture has already been established that ministers are submitting a report on the state of their portfolio and I don't think there's any need to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82789	We have to vote, no MPs. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the amendment of the club of representatives or representatives of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82790	It is not accepted because the adoption of this amendment would require a stricter norm than for local self-government than it is now for the state administration. Therefore, we see no reason for the government's handover process to be more stringent towards local and regional self-government units compared to the state authorities' handover process.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82791	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82792	Mr. Secretary of State, you in the Law on these Supplements have prescribed stricter control and regulation for what is local, especially in part of the possibility of available budgets. I remind you to municipalities, cities and counties you... At 0.5%, it's one twelveth, and the government says it's a more significant asset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You keep avoiding accepting what is correcting the laws, so since you don't want the law to look better on you then it's good for us to be up there, so I'm withdrawing the amendment, so let's keep these holes in your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82793	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. And I also ask that a representative with respect is also a small throat. My colleague Carmela, one candy for Agent Lesar because he's having a bit of a problem with his throat. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. Do you want to do an examination in the office or in the assembly? Only if colleague Lesar agrees that the examination is carried out on site, immediately and now. You see, let's declare the result of this first vote. With 69 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 18 against the proposed law, together with the amendments adopted. So you see how you confused your colleague Caparin, so she voted with abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82794	President, you're confusing agents not me. And as far as we're concerned, let's make a four-eyed deal like this in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82795	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 617 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82796	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government has referred to the procedure Final Proposal for a Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials to which it intends to achieve two objectives. The first is the depoliticization of the university. In fact, at a historic moment when the Law on State officials was passed in Croatia, the rectors and prophesies were listed as state officials. We believe that this provision may be an obstacle to the autonomy of the university, may be an obstacle to the further development of Croatian science, so we suggest that the rectors of universities and proctors are deleted from the order of state officials. Furthermore, this Law wants to prescribe that in 2007 no additional salary will be paid to government officials on the basis of their labour standing as the basic law requires, as we believe that a certain savings will be achieved in order to balance the state budget, reduce the deficits and this Law. According to our assessment, this is about 14 million kuna, and this means that these savings can be used in social-kind programmes or something else that is more likely to be solved in this financial year. Since the year has begun this Law has a partial and retroactive application, we ask that the Law be adopted as soon as possible and in an urgent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82797	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82798	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Really short. This Law seems to accept all those requests and those requirements that otherwise went from the rector to remove the rectors from that list of officials in the Republic of Croatia. This Law, in fact, means that its Article 1 changes the list of state officials in such a way as to delete the rectors and procurators of the university from that list, and the rectors of the universities are deleted from the list of state officials precisely because of these remarks that their classification as state officials would raise questions about the autonomy of the university. It's about high-ranking positions at the university, not state bodies. Therefore, the work done in these positions by nature does not fall into the affairs of government officials. In addition, these positions are not political functions, but primarily jobs where professional jobs require exceptional expertise and experience, and therefore it is necessary to ensure their full depoliticalisation, i.e. professionalisation. By deleting from the list of state officials, this Article 12 was also to be harmonised. The law, which regulates the calculation of wages based on the coefficients set therein. It is therefore seen here that, by special regulation, the salaries of the university's Rectors and proctors will be arranged, and until the entry into force of that regulation, their salaries will remain as they are today and the coefficients for the Rector 5.27 and for the Rector 4.98. We are already used to the fact that as far as these 0.5% that would be paid by officials in past work that all these years this provision has not been applied and that this is some contribution to reducing the deficits of the state budget and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support this provision. The HDZ Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82799	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82800	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You see, by the way, we have two draft laws on the agenda on the same day and they argue one after the other and these two bill proposals show that actually the left doesn't know what the right hand is doing and vice versa. I'm not gonna use any harsh words, even though I'd have to. Look, in the law, in the amendments and additions to the Law on the process of handing over the government, the Deputy Secretary of the Government, the secretary of the ministry, the deputy head of the Government's Office, are said to be deleted and will not be state officials from the next elections because they will have to give a second term of office to trust. At the same time, we are changing and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, the list of what they are and who the state officials are in which all of these persons remain state officials and we, instead of making one transitional provision here, are changing and saying that these people of the new elections, after the next election and the constitution of the authorities are no longer state officials and that they will have to put the mandate at their disposal, would then be as harmonised as possible. This is how we will pass a Law on the handover of authorities by which we will say they are not officials and we will have the Law on State officials who are lex specialis in relation to the handover of authorities that say they are officials and there will be a serious problem with interpreting what the legislator was going to say. That's the first one. Second. I would like to remind you that again in that previous law that we have completed the debate, we have deleted that, for example, the Deputy Secretary of Government will cease to be or will not be a state official after the next elections. But Deputy Secretary of Parliament, he stays. We are, among other things, erasing or ensuring Article 6 of the Law that the heads of the office of administrative organisations are not officials but their deputies remain because here in the Law on State Officials we did not delete it, etc. What I'm saying is that there's something going on that's inadmissible for a legislative body, it's inadmissible for the legislative body to bring the so-called. targeted, pentellistic laws which should provide a particular group or individuals with a privileged position in relation to others. These two laws say that. Practically, when it comes to the secretaries of the ministry, the deputy secretaries of the government, the prime ministers, then it was settled in their favour, and when it comes to the Government, the Parliament, when it comes to administrative organisations, etc., it has been completely ignored and forgotten. And that is why it should actually be decided that both of these two laws go into third reading and that this should be brought into line and that Parliament should be offered a solution that will be consistent. It does not always have to be acceptable politically for both the position and the opposition. There's a lot of votes... But it must be consistent and must comply with the Constitution and the legal system in order to actually ensure its validity and its proper application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the proposal to rectors and prophesies, we absolutely agree. We don't mind. In this regard, the promoter reads or rather a door-to-door house when it comes to these proposals for a simple reason and we and everyone else, as far as I know from the opposition, and even some colleagues in the position have warned against the illogicality of such a position as to declare them to be state officials, even to affect the autonomy of the university. However, there remains an additional question, you know. And that is that a special regulation will regulate the salary of the Rector and the Rector of the University. Imagine, now we're just going to bring in the rector's pay regime and the proctor's. So let's imagine, if we wanted to go to some kind of minimum autonomy, would it finally become time for the bodies of the university to determine that salary. So we can tell in the law what he'll take care of in determining that salary. But it doesn't make any sense that this part is now ultimately determined by the regulation and that the Government administratively determines people who are neither under the Staff Act nor are more officials. And while they were officials, there was still a way to find legal grounds that could be justified, etc. But after erasing this and erasing it, there's no logical explanation. Of course, a special question is opening again, for many years, practically, as far as I know, there, somewhere since 2001, it has been determined that the provision of Article 12(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is, in fact, permanent. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials will not apply in this year. She had a so-called. the early character at the time when it was brought for a simple reason because the budget register was empty in many segments and there was no means to meet these needs. That's number one. Number two. Then we warned and now we would like to warn of an important question. When it comes to state officials, we certainly can't go from them having to have a salary that should be in the ranking I don't know, to measure with managers, directors, etc., institutions and companies. For a simple reason, state officials need and must share the fate of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the electoral authorities and citizens who gave them the mandate to work. That's number one. Number two. The question arises, however, whether an additional part of the segment that is very important should be evaluated in that segment, which is a question of knowledge and acquired skills and experience that is very important... And skills, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the skills of Furio Rada's fellow MP, because if you didn't have that kind of skill, you wouldn't be answering the President of the Republic like that. Let me especially point out this part for a simple reason because, among other things, there is some injustice and injustice in relation to certain positions when it comes to state officials. This 0.5% year-on-year internship is not actually a salary but a reward or recognition for the work acquired experience per year of internship. This was taken over even from the Austro-Hungarian system, from the Austro-Hungarian railways when after certain years when you spent your work on the railways increased your salary for the experience you received and from one pay grade you went to another canvas, higher pay grade. No pay grade was taken here, one of the usual questions was taken. When it comes to all employees in Croatia, they exercise the right to do so. When it comes to state officials, regardless of age and experience and work experience, they cannot enter there. It's just that it's getting too cold, starting with the assumption that everyone has the same salary and that nothing in their work experience and life experience, knowledge and skills to do certain jobs can mean anything. In the case of a representative body, an appropriate argument can be found. However, what about a whole series of executive officials, who do business among other things in many other segments such as I don't know, public defenders and their deputies, state auditors, etc. We think the time has come to discuss this in the following. If we want to keep at the same level or even a smaller level the total gross wage fund for government officials, in order to stay on the same or even slightly reduced salary, we from the SDP can valorise and accept it. But we believe that these activities should be additionally rewarded, and that the segment should then make a final change to the base salary reduction and at the same time recognise that difference 0.5% per year of internship. Because if it is not recognised it is not only felt on a single salary but it is extremely felt by the officials after going to retirement because it actually has a basis for getting into retirement it is accounted for by the salaries they had rather than the contributions they made to the Mirovinski Fund. And in such a situation, they are punished more lastingly for that question. That would be why it would be time for this issue to be discussed, possibly considered, and we of the SDP suggest that it be considered, to be seen, not to increase gross total salaries for government officials or their fund. That we share and bear the fate of an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but at the same time one part of the injustice, the present injustice that is linked to those senior officials, who are going to retire to finally try to correct as much as possible by taking care of both the meaning of the Constitution and the law under discussion. To simplify and to conclude on behalf of our club. We agree that when it comes to eradicating from the office of directors and rectors to accept it. We agree that the possibility of further reviewing and a whole series of other duties that should be deleted from the existing Law on responsibilities should be opened and therefore we believe that this proposal is sufficient to amend and supplement the final proposal. We disagree that once rectors and prophesies become actually employees, if I may say so, or employees of only universities or individual universities where they work. That the Regulation regulates their salaries by the Government. We believe that this should be left to the university bodies to arrange for them to take care of the salaries that are present between university and scientific and research calls at universities. We also believe that the time has come for this issue from the aspect of justice to be further reconsidered on the issue of abolishing 0.5%, while maintaining the solidarity rate and sharing the fate of an average salary that should not be raised compared to the average salary of a state official in relation to the average salary that is present in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, we believe that this part would now be best if both laws were to be forwarded to third reading by both authorities and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights, Obligations and Rights of Officials. To correct them, to align them for the sake of the unity and consistency of the legal system and only when they are brought into line in the parliamentary procedure again and then to vote them out. And the last remark that will tell someone that it is formal-legal or constitutional-law, which is completely unusual. Again, Article 5 also says without need: "This law takes effect on the day of its publication in the National Journal." So no "vacatio legis" is accepted and at the same time a constitutional provision is not respected which states that only exceptional laws can be granted on the day of publication or prior to the prescribed date for the introduction by the addressee with the content of the law, but that it must then be justified for what particularly justified reasons it is necessary? That's not indicated either. For that reason, all of these reasons we feel that both of these should be forwarded to the third reading. If that doesn't happen, we will have to be forced to vote against this law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82801	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82802	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. All right, let's wipe out the rectors, the proctors from this bill. They are, they're asking for it. We said it was logical. And finally why should those as officials for not applying this right at 0.5% per year of internship have a lower salary than what will they have the next day? It doesn't make sense. Why should they be defended by any other work activity that reduces their incomes again? That doesn't make sense either. Why should they be called as other officials because of their gold teeth or their wife's coats? It just doesn't make sense. So, in order for the university to be autonomous, let them be completely nice to themselves. And then you should support them in that. On page 2, I quote the provision, in Article 12, paragraph 4. The Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials has been prescribed to increase government officials' salaries by 0.5% for each completed year of employment. However, that provision has never been applied in practice because the amendments to the laws prescribed that this provision would not apply in a specific calendar year and so on. Clearly, no government has the courage to return those 0.5% for a year's internship and nothing to do with it. Let's keep it that way. But I'd like something else. To pay these directors, I don't know if they're meant by Mr. Arlovic, who are at the head of these large systems and so on, are in the ranks of the Ministerial and Kuna anymore. It means that the director of Croatia's electricity industry has as much salary as the minister, I don't know, economy or finance. That the director of Croatia's security has such rather than a higher salary. That the directors of our shipyards, on the side of the commission they're raising, have no higher salary. The same goes for INA. The same goes for some utility services in our cities and so on. So when we talk about them, they're not the managers of private companies that were clearly state-owned companies, so they're privatized in the meantime, so now we know whose they are, they're the people who are headed by these state-owned companies. Like this, MPs are a benchmark for everything, for everything bad. For good, it's probably nothing. And why is that? Because the representative of the "de facto" has no power whatsoever. He can't hurt anyone. There are no executive mechanisms reserved for executive power and it is clear that the Assembly can then be demystified as long as it takes. So once again, the rectors are far better off or they'd be better off if they weren't officials. They won't be called. They won't be checked. They won't get muddy. They're not gonna fill out, I don't know, property cards. They will be able to do something else along with their primary activity, clearly not for anything. Because why would anyone or anyone in this country do anything for nothing? He'll have a bigger salary. If for nothing because of these 0.5% per year of work, which is normal and what should be theirs. So IDS, in order for there to be no doubt, doesn't advocate these 0.5% per year of internships, unlike what we're saying to get back at least 0.5 of them when we can't do this another. So since we can't get one, at least give us what's rightfully ours and what doesn't cost anybody in this country, and least taxpayers. I regret, however, that our reactors will not have bonuses like the directors of state-owned companies. I regret they won't have any severances like the directors of state-owned companies. But no matter what, we have to admit the rectors are institutions. They should be treated that way, and it's a good thing they're not in this law. I repeat once again it's simply about institutions or should be. However, as Mr Arlovic also holds, I don't think it is necessary to regulate it through regulations, but rather, the higher their autonomy, the universities should in some way by law or I don't know in any other way perhaps prescribe those receipts. I thought I'd say something about these other government officials' obligations like the property cards I'm holding should be, that everyone should submit them to the state's salaries. So, from the President of the State, the Government, the Parliament, the Minister, the MPs and the rectors, the doctors, and those who issue building permits and people who work in public ballots, who are under quotes under the patronage of the Croatian Government or the Parliament. It doesn't matter if it's HRT, Vesnik, etc. Clearly, so are those who are in state-owned public companies starting with INA, HT, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters, and if this were really announced, individuals would come up with interesting data. It's not a question of real estate. The movements are clearly becoming less and less controversial. One hour and even more decent prices shouldn't be reported by me, the collection certainly is. One awake so costaI don't know 20 or 25 or 30000 kunas may not have to report as you shouldn't if you buy a new kitchen, car yes, TV do not need or computer to log in. But some more valuable object of gold or I don't know Murtic's painting maybe. So once and for all, let us make the rules to everyone who is on public salary and stop that story and those references to the public media.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82803	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82804	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, other government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. First, allow me to read a few sentences from the explanation and to continue to hold a debate. See, it explains that Article 67 of the first Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the autonomy of the university, and Article 2 of the same article lays down the right of the university to decide independently about its structure and operation in accordance with specific laws. So we're calling for university autonomy. The text goes a little further by deleting from the list of state officials the position of the rector and the projector of the university will become jobs in public services, and their salaries would be subject to the Public Service Payments Act. So if they stop getting paid under the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, then we preserve their autonomy. And I'm asking you, if we take them under the Public Service Payments Act, didn't we endanger their autonomy again? Of course we are, so it's not about autonomy at all. There's no question at all. This is a pointless explanation. There's an explanation somewhere else. I think my colleague Cain and colleague Arlovic touched that, and I'm not going to get into it. The third sentence I would like to quote is proposed to the vice-laws of the university that their salaries are regulated by a special sublaw or regulation. I'm just gonna remind you, and I don't know if you've had time to spend a little bit of public service pay law, so you'll see that the law is already full of all kinds of regulations, and this is just another addition. You'll see what I'm saying and what direction I want to discuss. See Article 6 where it states that the names of individual posts and the exclusive conditions for the schedule in those posts will be determined by a special law and regulation of the Government. The same Article 6 further states that the jobs of officials and appointments in culture will be resolved again by the government's regulation. Article 7 states that employees of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the Employment Office, the Health Insurance Office, will apply specific regulations governing these issues for civil servants. Article 8 states that the specific criteria will re-establish the average results of work and the method of payment of the add-on to a new government regulation. So, regulations, regulations, regulations, and I wonder where the system of things is. How systematic are we? How many of us, basically, colleagues and colleagues, do we have salary control in the public sector? How much of this surveillance do we really have? How many control mechanisms do we have? How much coordination have we made? It's good to discuss these two laws one after the other and I'll try to connect some of the things from the previous debate. Look, in my opinion, we really do little to reconcile the salaries of officials, officials, tenants or one word of all those who work in the public sector. It would even allow us to expand and consider the positions of people who receive salaries within utility, state-owned enterprises and are monopolies. They're monopolies, they're not on the market. We know how to form their wages, how to get their salaries. In fact, one word at the HNS Club when we discussed this bill, then we basically said to use it here. At least there are rectors and prophesies here, but let's take this opportunity to remind ourselves to try to encourage a debate to finally take care that public sector wages must start to be determined by very clear criteria. The complexity of the business, the responsibility, the results of the individual employees. These should be the criteria by which you would clearly form one large cross, pay grade and make one comparative. Calling for university autonomy is pointless for me because here's an example if you're under one law, then you're unautonomous. If you're getting paid under the second law, you're not, or you're autonomous, which is nonsense. It doesn't matter. It's about a whole other category. It's about the moral category of co-worker and co-worker. Look, I repeat once again, and the proctors are the least controversial in this story. But let's compare rectors and proctors, deans, prodigal, university professors. Whom I suggest I try to compare them to today. Here, Mr. Palaric was just here. Let's take a look at the pay range of the mayor and the mayor. Minimum wage, down to the highest wages, so you'll see that some of the salaries of some of the mayors and mayors are far, far above the pay of our rectors. Let's do the same for utility companies. For state-owned companies. So you'll see that some of them have far, far higher salaries than the President of the Republic, than the Prime Minister. Is that okay? For monopolies? For those who aren't even on the market? For those who form salaries in a way that simply raises the prices of their services. That's ridiculous. So we suggest, so we suggest that as the predecessors also said, it goes into another reading, that by then one review of what we just said, a review of wages in local self-government, to see what these salaries are compared to university employees. Let's also make a range of salaries in regional self-government to see how clearly our mayors, deputy mayors, are clear about what salaries are in municipal enterprises, the county over our rectors, our proctors, our deans. I'll end up just finishing up with one, one banal example to see how serious one substance is. Medical technician or laboratory technician take three people from the same generation, finish the same school, graduate the same day, one gets a job at the KBC, one gets a job at the university, at some institution, and one gets a job at the MUP, which is their pay difference. Big, huge, huge differences, unwarranted big ones. The same job they do, the same internship they have, the same responsibility, the pay. So colleagues and colleagues aren't the problem with the rectors and the proctors, the problem is with us, in our will, whether we want to set things a little differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82805	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Plasimir Sabati, on behalf of the HSS, the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82806	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the state office. Of course, when we received such a brief Final Bill, we thought in the club maybe a little bit and wider about the overall problem, thinking that it really somehow became a practice when it was discussed either the salaries or certain duties that are mentioned, which are legally arranged that we never have a systematic solution in front of us. I'm not sure, it's not a criticism, until now whether any government has come with a set of laws or a systematic solution to discuss everything my predecessors have said. Oh, yeah, a little bit at a time. Today we'll put the rectors on the agenda, proctor. In a month's time, we'll be putting in second or earlier ministers' assistants, so we put in if you remember before New Year's Eve the presidents of the Office of Legislatives, as if we'd forgotten that topic. We disagree with that approach. We think that one systematic solution would probably be a little bit more painful, but it would still give answers to all the dilemmas and all the questions that arise. If we don't go too far, there's a law here or a whole series of other topics opens up here, so I made this introduction. First of all, I think that no one so far will dispute the fact that it is necessary to support the Constitution guaranteed the autonomy of the university, the academic community if you want to, however, no, from this pay phone but also from the benches, the constituency benches because often it has been taken as an example, I don't think it's controversial. So we are in favour of not being state officials for rectors and proctors. However, the moment we read some of the articles of this law further. Or changes and additions to the law. Then a set of other questions opens up again. On the one hand, Article 4 says a special regulation will regulate the salaries of the Rectors and the Rectors of the University. Well, I don't know if anyone would be happy if we just read in the People's Newsbook that regulated this issue. Well, I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be here today. Maybe we could wait a week, so I would even say a whole law where the entire academic community would be covered. Why leave it out of that list and dean, of course, professors or other university teachers. Well, we're not supposed to do it like that. By regulation, you arrange wages, but legally, and here in this House of Commons, not by regulation. We also need to be aware of the fact that at this point, all rectors and proctors, so each at their level, have equal salaries, as state officials. I mean, rectors, one salary, and the proctors the other, but the same salary is. from those levels. Right now, which means that on the day of the publication in "The People's News" it's the final proposal I assume will be at the vote tomorrow. At that point, it'll still get maybe a month, I don't know how much, that pay that's guaranteed, but the regulation, however it may be, will make a difference, which is probably both fine and in accordance with the Labour Act. Someone's a rector with less years of work experience, someone with more or if we're looking at proprietors. Thus, it is also necessary to connect to Article 3, which has been withdrawn as a famous article for many years and indeed no one has the courage or courage to resolve this issue justly as it was foreseen by law. And the law here is very simple, which is also common to all of us and which determines that officials' salaries increase by 0.5% for each year of work. I'm not going to spread too many topics here when it comes to pay, pay in public service, and try to compare it, I sincerely hope, and I believe that it will be settled in, come on, one autonomous way as I suggested. Not by regulation, or at least we'll get information about how it's done. I may be more concerned with the fact that, here I am repeating, and that I will end up, that we may not have enough courage all together to make such a consensus and to systematically resolve issues and rankings and government officials and salaries and those who are not state officials who work in certain public companies, companies. And then we wouldn't all be thinking about why everything breaks down on the MPs. So we can freely remember who's the most responsible and who's the most criticized when it comes to, say, a slightly worse law. As a rule, they're MPs. They're not on the benches, they're getting high wages. Such big voters, I mean, that's the way it is. But the moment one whole system showed it, it might be a little less critical of us MPs. I wish I didn't talk about it too much because I know you're all thinking the same thing, and you all feel the same and you all have the opportunity to hear it either through the stands or in individual conversations in passing. It is We who are chosen by the people, and we answer to the people. And sometimes the congregation of society is a minister, one person. And this corresponds either to that policy or to the minister of the company where the Republic of Croatia owns it. But I repeat, we will not, of course, object to the rectors and proctors being removed from the list of state officials. We demand that the regulation not be governed by the pay of the rectors and the proctors. We ask that in the third reading that we propose that we be given such a law where the entire academic community would be included under a special law. And I say, if it is possible to try to think about one systematic review of all these state and officials and also local levels, so that the public can also be aware of who is who and who is not in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82807	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82808	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I was taught when I was a kid not to talk about wages in decent civil houses. But we actually have every story about paying a couple of excellent political stories. And I remember when we passed this law, in one last session, and it's always when we're actually trying to be more Catholic than the Pope, and when we're trying to be really bad demagogues. Because in the end, the public for one such decision and with full right completely ignores it. We've passed this unconstitutional law and now it's actually obvious precisely because of this fear of reaction in the media that, I don't know, can take a few days, we're actually trying it this way in a very palitative way to change it. Well, now we've remembered the vice president and the proctor, and all of a sudden, we are now aware that the autonomy of the university has been compromised. I don't know, a few years ago, like those stories, we weren't aware. And I really have to admit, I remember when I was somewhere back from, somewhere in Denmark we were colleagues Tomac and I then even though we agreed along the way one here we spoke differently and it's not good. And that really leaves a bitter taste, not because of it, I don't know, what I'm saying again in the decent houses isn't talking about wages and I don't know, 0.5% which, if that's the law, is why we have some exceptions. Well, if I didn't know then, I guess we think we're showing the public that we're different from other people. We'd say "a little morgen." I was the 9-month procurator of the Osijek University of Joseph Juraj Strossmayer, and for other reasons I resigned, not from these, not because of 0.5% but from the simple fact that with autonomy, the whole story of autonomy, the academic community, the university was actually, it was very difficult to realize and then it was really better not to participate in that one bad story than to be part of that story. And I think this is how politics really works when it's trying to like the public that it's going to lose. I don't know if any of us are here, from parliamentary representatives and some of the other state officials who, to whom this Article 3 will apply, the provisions of Article 12(4) of the Law will not apply in 2007 if he complains to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will have to, would not want to show its dignity and say indeed that this decision of Article 3 of this Act is unconstitutional and what then. I don't think we really need to act that way. It was better for us not to be ashamed of those who have and who belong to rights than we are really trying to solve other problems, and that's who they don't have. That's actually the real problem of politics, that politics is committed to it. With these 0.5% I really didn't count and say again because of this courtesy I learned in very early years, but these funds are not in any way too great. But the palitative solutions, the demagogue solutions are always the worst solutions, and I think I would really recommend to the Proposer that we give this up and that the provision of Article 12(4) of this Act is applied in full already since 2007, to really avoid this election year, to show some of our pettyness and that we actually, that we care very much about our own position. But here it's really not about, we're talking about... but we're really talking about some equality, I think that, that's what my colleagues Furio Radina are also talking about, that we're actually not going to be better or worse in the eyes of the Croatian public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how we're really going to show that we're up to the rectors now, and then I don't know the judges of the Constitutional Court, and then maybe the MPs will come after that, so I don't know how to come and the ministers, but all this stuff just leaves me with an ugly impression. Nor will we show in this way that we care deeply about the autonomy of the academic community, but we are just showing that somewhere a few years ago we pulled one completely unnecessary, not to say stupid move, and in politics it is possible to be stupid, but therefore we were not, nor honored, nor sanctioned, but simply after some time this great decision, under quotes "great" absolutely no one noticed because life problems and problems in society are even bigger than whether someone gets or doesn't get 0.5%. So I say certainly to the rectors what needs to be returned to them, but it should be returned to everyone, and not really having a restrictive view of the world like this and then just creating opportunities and bringing the Constitutional Court to a very unpleasant situation that they don't actually know the most dangerous if that fourth headquarters of our government also starts counting on political relations in Parliament so what is opportunized... And what isn't, and today on this yerring, we've heard exactly the same questions to make someone behave, whether you'd keep something in your drawer or actually insist on doing lege artis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am for the legions of artis, and it just seems to me that with our palitative solutions, we've only actually got that chicken in the house and there's absolutely nothing of it, and neither will our reputation in public be greater or smaller if we really bring what we should vote for, which is that to those to whom 0.5% really belongs. I'm not gonna talk about trouble this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82809	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82810	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's really hard to get into the logic of this law and understand the government's motives for proposing it. We have just discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure for the handover of authorities. The government in the law proposes that officials cease to be Deputy Government Secretary, Ministry Secretary, Assistant Minister and Head of the Government's Office. Therefore, according to the government's wishes, they should cease to be officials, but the official remains, for example. Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. So the Deputy Secretary of Government would not be an official, and the Deputy Secretary of Parliament would remain an official. It's hard to get into that logic. Keep going. Assistant ministers would not be officials, but assistant directors of state administrations would remain officials. Really illogical. The ministry's secretaries would not be officials, but the secretary at the central state offices would remain officials. I would be really interested to have a representative of the government explain the logic of the government here. This is completely messed up, completely vague and completely incomprehensible. University Rectors and Proctors under this Bill proposal should no longer be state officials, and an explanation to protect the autonomy of the university. Sounds good. If it wasn't for those other provisions that the government would make them pay by regulation. So wait, how do you plan to preserve the autonomy of the university if the Prime Ministers and the Prime Ministers get paid by their regulation? Where is autonomy, and what makes autonomy stronger than when paid by law? At least now, at least their salary has been set by law, and from now on there will be no law, and the government will tell the rectors, listen, I don't like the way you do it, so I'm gonna cut your salary by my regulation. And by doing so, the government protects the autonomy of the university. It would be funny if it weren't sad. If you want to protect the autonomy of the university, protect it, strengthen it, return the rectors and proctors to the academic community, and let the academic community determine their wages. That would be logical, that would be consistent, that would be clear, but to strengthen university autonomy in this way better not to strengthen it. Don't make it stronger because the university will do better without these reinforcements of yours. As for this suspension 0.5% per year of internship. Look, the mass of salaries for officials can be limited. It is one of the usual provisions that is repeated and adopted year after year, the law is changed only because of this provision to extend its lifetime. So let's first or systematically resolve it so that those 0.5% permanently abolish or confess to officials what is recognised to everyone else. Watch out for such a restriction was also worth it to the judges. Then it's off. The judges now have the 0.5% which is logical. The judge has more experience, more knowledge is assumed, so it's okay that he's a little more rewarded. I don't see any reason for them to be equated in this respect, to be done by one equalist, and not respecting the experience and years of internships, so that I suggest that the Government bring in another measure, so that no more money on the government's debt salaries is spent, you limit the mass, you limit the mass, and this is going to be some internal redistribution, but that redistribution will be logical and it will be as it is for everyone else in the country. What you sent to Parliament when compared to this law that we just discussed is an attempt to insult an intellectual, and that's sorry, that's something a man can't be surprised at. And you now explain this difference to me, too much difference between your assistant secretary of government, Deputy Secretary of Government and Deputy Secretary of Parliament. Explain it so that even a representative can understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82811	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There you go, Mr. President. I'm sorry. A colleague of Kramarić's after he stole half my discussion now even told me about it, but here's to going back to what I want to say. I'd only like to look at two things. One thing is rectors and proctors, and another thing is these 0.5% out of wages. ... I'll go to 0.5 later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] While I was at the Committee of Decisions on conflict of interest rectors and university predictors had already asked for them to be deleted from the list because they did not want to hand over property cards, because they felt that they did not belong to this list at all. Then it was in any case a violation of the law because by law they had to hand over their property cards to the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest and in the end I don't think I know exactly what the situation is right now, but I think they finally gave it up. By then, at their intervention in amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, we tried to get the rectors and evictors out of the list of state officials, we proposed it long ago on the amendments on July 7th 2004, but Mr Palaric then respected it and felt that it should not be done in any case because the argument was that they were there anyway because of the coefficient they were being paid. We failed to do so to get them kicked out of the list of state officials, so we tried to do one thing to simply simplify the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so we wanted to unify the Law on State Officials and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, that Article 2 which is changed in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests where there is a list of all officials that are covered, so that it is equal to this article so that we do not have such misunderstandings as is happening now, and this nebuloss is that we are erasing rectors and proctors from the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. This means that under one law they are no longer officials, and under the second law they are still required to teach property cards, and now at the end of the mandate and on the day of major changes and at the beginning of the term of office. So we didn't do one law and another, and that happens by not knowing which time, that there's something left. So here, Mr. Palaric, I ask you to level Article 2 of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest with the Law on the Rights of State Officials. And to go now to that other thing that's pretty weird, which is that we're coming to a table with an anti-constitutional proposal, which is that a month after the end of this year, rights not only of parliamentary representatives are acquired, but of all state officials being abolished retroactively. This means that for these months we've been working, all of us gentlemen here, and all the other government officials must get 0.5% for each year of work. I ask Mr. Palaric here, who will be guilty of paying those 0.5% for the first month of this year because the first month is over, these are our acquired rights and how it will be paid. I give my 0.5% as an initial fund to the Commission to decide on conflicts of interest because I know they don't have any means to work and I expect that all of you other 0.5% who don't have to, but I expect you to give your 0.5% of what you get for the first month of this year for the commission too, so that the commission can start working. Otherwise, I don't know how you're going to apply that article. And, by the way, it would be very good if by ruling after they introduced those 0.5, they decided, in fact, to clarify. They've introduced 0.5% to pay, this second one, vice versa. They've abolished 0.5% of the salary, they've introduced 0.5% to this, so it would be good if both 0.5 were abolished. So come with the proposal, get it out of the law, and let's not make such farces every year and thus end the acquired rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82813	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82814	Thank you, Mr. President. It would be nice to explain, very well, that these 0.5% should be abolished and we should introduce 0.5 promilas, and that would be the same equal relationship between the sins of the one side and the other. But as for the money you give up in favour of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it seems to me that it would be more meaningful, and I hear that today it was also a problem in the government, where it was discussed to abolish that provision that the State Election Commission was calling voters to the polls with impromptuness because there was no money. Let's make a contribution for voters in this country to be invited to the elections, and if there is no money, let the fund alimentate the sending of those calls to the written, short noodles as it used to be called, so that all citizens know where their polling stations are and under what number they are listed in the voter's list.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82815	Replica response, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82816	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Lesar, that's what I thought. Maybe I wasn't clear enough, but that's what I thought. Let each of you wipe out your sin in that way to bring back 0.5 and delete 0.5 there. And as for my 0.5% of this 1st month, I don't give for noodles, I give it to the Commission to decide the conflict of interest because I think they're in far bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82817	Cheese noodles aren't bad. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82818	Your Honor, Mr. President! I agree with Mr. Kapraljevic that we still cancel these 0.5 because as far as we know, this application is delayed every year and we return 0.5 and 0.7 to this part. Yeah. These are missed and this is this part. Therefore, it is the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82819	Replica response, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82820	Mr. President! Here, colleague Pero, I fully agree with you. But I agreed to these 0.5 because it's the club's position. I drink only coffee and water, I ask for 0.8. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82821	It's like a preference. It's supposed to be bid. But that's where we're past 7 is, up to 7 can only be done. ... is 7,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's six, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82822	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, the shortest law is not absurd, but the explanation is completely absurd. Why? My predecessors, the speakers of fellow MPs, said that the reason for amending and supplementing this law is to delete from the Law of the Rectors on State officials of the Rectors, for the purpose of ensuring the autonomy of the university. So how would university leadership get autonomy? And what's the absurd? Therefore, the university's leadership had no autonomy because the Croatian Parliament, as a representative body of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, legally established their place of pay. Therefore, the representative body of citizens has established the position of the Rector and the Rector and that is the dependence of the Rector. And look at the absurd. When the government as a unilateral government usually regulates it by a regulation, it is no longer a dependence of the rectors and proctors. It's an interesting observation of what addiction is and what isn't? That is why my qualification is that this law has been made for the résumé of the university to depend not on the law but on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So why are we hiding the real meaning of this law? It is true that counterpart Kapraljevic said that the rectors are constantly asking not to be on the list under the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests because they do not want to give a report on their property status and I understand that and I accept that. Not because I'm in this position right now, but I generally accept that. But I don't accept that they're addicted because their wages are regulated by the government's regulation. Let's close the principle. Either it will be a university singled out completely and even from the Parliament, to let them regulate the autonomous rules and criteria and pay-determining criteria, or the Parliament will edit what is less dependent on the law than on the government's regulation. But let's imagine now. Who says that now it cannot appear in the next session of the Parliament that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is singled out from the Law on State officials and tenants because it depends heavily on Parliament. It depends heavily on Parliament, and besides, it is not certain of the concept of what is property? This is how he has to pay his dues and answer to the Croatian Assembly. I suggest we exclude it from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Officials. We'll make it easier for us and them both. And to me, the most. There's one more thing I'd like to say. About 0.5% per year of work. This is an exception to the rules, and that is why this regulation is changed every year because it has simply entered into practice, so no government is going to demagogue for any demagogue reason, none of which will return it as it falls within the law in principle to anyone or anyone. 'Cause this is about a special addition to the internship. It's independent of the quality of work. Of course I can only wonder why we're doing this? I don't stand for it here or there. But if the reason for disfellowshipping the rector is that they're getting paid too, then we have to call that the same name. So we don't have to pay ourselves, but we have to pay the rectors back, but in order for them to remain obedient, we will transfer the powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine their salary. It is indeed the introduction of a rector, the head of the university into a dependent position in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is the principle of repercussion of such laws? Legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty because in fact every year we expect whether a regulation will be passed or not? What's that all about? No analysis whatsoever but the will of those in power. And that's not a legal state anymore. It's a question of the will of those in power. That's not allowed and that's why I really think, I support that the rectors return to the autonomous position, to the university and determine their own wages as a university, not that the government determines their wages by its regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82823	Thank you. And final review by State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82824	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, the government stays with the bill. He thinks he's in sync with, the system is in sync. And as regards the status of certain current state officials, this was settled in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, National No. 114 of 2006 where Article 3 states that on the day of entry into office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, following the first subsequent parliamentary elections of the secretaries, ministries, Deputy Secretary of Government, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Office and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration, they become the jobs of state officials. And, and so far, the assistant minister's positions are being abolished, and then the person is being referred to as the classic formulation that they, as we have spoken with the Law on the handover of power. So they technically manage their organisational units until the basis of the public tender is made available, they implement a new selection in accordance with the Civil Service Act. When we talk about the Law on the handover of power, we're talking about executive power. We're talking about the government, the authorities of the state administration, and we haven't chosen in any way, Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. We think the laws are consistent, that depolitisation of the university is necessary. That this is still a step forward. Then the rectors, the prophesies enter the public service system and on them we will, then through the other laws we will resolve their status. We are now not talking about amendments to the Law on the handover of the Government and we had nothing to comply with and surely we cannot put the rectors and the proctors in the context of the Law on the procedure of handing over the authorities. So he can't talk about inconsistency. We suggest that this law be passed. I think 14 million kunas as much as we think we're going to save with this 0.5 per year internship isn't a small amount of money and that maybe it shouldn't be the subject of ridicule, but it can, everyone has a right to think about what they want. The government believes that this will also help stabilise the State budget and that this money will be more useful to spend on some other programmes that are of interest to the wider circle of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82825	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82826	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Palaric, no one here mentioned the Law on the handover of power. I was talking about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And you say the system is consistent. Nothing's consistent. They, in one you wipe them and in the other they stay. It doesn't matter. And what you're saying is how much of what's loaded with these 0.5%. You know, it's 16 million kuna. But I'm asking you again, what about the first month where this anti-constitutional thing was done backwards?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82827	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. That's it. Any true gentleman would react like this. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. First of all, we should vote on the conclusion for the feedback of Article 3 that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the feedback of Article 3. Please, let's get on with it. Who is behind this feedback conclusion? We can vote. Unfortunately, it's only three, and it's not three or five. The result? With 73 for, 8 abstentions, 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82831	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the lists of voters in the Republic of Croatia are the records of all Croatian citizens who turned 18 and who were not deprived of their business ability in the court proceedings. So all those who are, who are the electoral body. Lists of voters are headed towards the place of residence. Therefore, we have lists of voters for Croatian citizens who have their residence registered in the Republic of Croatia and we have according to the constitutional regulation guaranteeing the right of all citizens to vote for the presidential elections and parliamentary elections. And where the state undertakes to enable Croatian citizens who find themselves abroad and we have a special list of voters for Croatian citizens who have residence outside the Republic of Croatia. This list of voters is run by the City of Zagreb City office for the general administration and is called the short term central records. The law on voters' lists was passed in 1992. It has not been changed so far, but in the meantime there has been an implementation of modern technology in holding the voter list. It was therefore necessary to intervene in the content of the law itself. The law has been prepared in a very transparent way. Before the government procedure, we organized the Round Table together with the OSCE Mission in the Republic of Croatia and the GONG Association that deals with this problem. The President of the Croatian Parliament who responded to the invitation was also invited to the round table. The prime minister who was also there. President of the Supreme Court who participated in the work and representatives of the Constitutional Court and numerous ministers, parliamentary representatives. But not only that, but civil society organisations. Candidates for the National Election Commission. An important composition of the National Election Commission. The International Institutions of the Ambassador of Finland, who chaired the European Union at the time, or Finland, was the chairman of the country. To the Head of the European Commission Delegation in the Republic of Croatia. So we organized a very broad and open set on which the draft bill was presented and which was thoroughly discussed and observations from that meeting, and in particular the remarks of the experts who helped us are embedded in this text of the law. The highest newspaper in the Law on the List of Voters is that it is conducted exclusively by electronic means and that the list of voters to all Croatian citizens is through our website and through the operator. So, via text messages. Furthermore, this law makes it easier for Croatian citizens who find themselves abroad to resolve their status. Namely, we have opportunities, and there have always been problems with ensuring the right to vote for Croatian citizens who find themselves out there whether they have had a registered residence in one of the countries or the city in that central record but have changed their residence without informing the body leading the lists of voters whether they have found themselves outside the Republic of Croatia and have not also reported them to the body leading them in the list of voters. We therefore have a special chapter that provides for the registration of voters' lists temporarily abroad. When it comes to voter lists, then it is often imputed that they are unsettled, that the dead soul voters' lists, that lists of voters are compared to the census, and then tries to impute that such lists could question the legitimacy of the authorities elected in the elections. This is a fact that, according to some statistical estimates, voters do not fit statistical standards in the population of under 18 years, but there are three very important reasons for this. One reason is that the lists of voters in the Republic of Croatia also list 400,000 Croatian citizens who have residence both outside the Republic of Croatia and in the census they could not be registered. More specifically, according to the latest data 401510 voters are listed in the list of voters and have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia. Another reason is that part of Croatian voters who have registered residence in the Republic of Croatia are somewhere else outside their place of residence. Some of them are still on the run. Some on temporary work abroad, didn't check out, didn't register their absence. They have the right to be registered, registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. No one can take that right away from them. But on the day of the census they were not found there, therefore, the state of the census and in that section does not correspond to the list of voters. Unfortunately, in Croatia, there is one fact that our population is growing old, that fewer people are being born, that the smaller generation is coming and the longer life span is extending. It's a positive fact, but it means that more and more people are over 80 and 90 years old who remain registered in the voters' list. So, we want to make this record as clear as possible, take care of it. We have come to such a state by applying modern technology and unique parent number that we do not have a single double entry, because the system itself would not allow us if an office and two places tried to introduce someone if it was already listed in the list of voters, because the unique parent number signaled that it had already been entered and therefore it is not possible to do so. But we know what life is. We know that voters' lists must be completed before the elections are held and that, in that period since the voter census is concluded, however up-to-date they are, 800, 900 or 1000 people will die, and therefore we will always have someone who has died at least from the day of voter conclusion until election day. I, and from this place, strongly condemn any manipulation in the election. We must say that in the election process in the Republic of Croatia, about 36,000 members of election committees, presidents, vice presidents, members and their deputies and that these people have done their job neatly and correctly and that Croatia is assessed as a country of high democracy, that we no longer have an observer in the elections, and that's good. This should also be kept in mind, and further efforts should be made in the education of persons participating in the selection process in order to make the job easier and better and enable everyone to exercise their constitutional right. However, if it is a fraud and they have not happened in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and please, I think we must all condemn attempts to manipulate anything in the elections. This law, although prepared the way I said open, transparent and I would say goes well, went well through the working bodies of the Parliament. The only grudge I've heard on the boards I've been on, which is the question of the availability of a list of voters. The list of voters contains personal data. In this term, we have established a system for the protection of personal data. There is a Commission on the Protection of Personal Data, and we believe that this data should not be available to the public but only by the body who is leading them and the body carrying out the elections. However, in order to remove suspicion of the importance of this personal data, we have sent a request to the Personal Data Protection Commission to assess these requirements which have been opened during the debate that the availability of the voters list is made available to all political parties. There are no other reasons than privacy protection because, as I said in the list of water voters, the public administrations in the counties are certifying the lists of committees appointed by these representative bodies, so in the City of Zagreb these 700 thousand voters will verify the commission appointed by the City of Zagreb City Assembly. And not only that, but these 401 thousand voters enrolled in the central register for voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, the Committee of the City of Čakovec in Varazdin, Rijeka, and there is no reason to suspect that these lists of voters are not being conducted legally. But I think this is still a step forward. We gave the law in two readings. And we believe that even a number of remarks that will be made or proposals will be incorporated into the Final Bill. Here, so much for the introduction. If necessary, I will continue to engage in the debate and look finally at the proposals and which are submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82832	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82833	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 73rd session on 30 January 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 January 2007. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the draft law. The Committee proposes that the applicant examine the possibility of a provision based on which election participants would make an insight into the list of voters without data subject to protection under the Personal Data Protection Act. I need to be more specific here. In fact, in the debate, the Committee asked the applicant to examine the possibility of a provision based on which election participants would receive a list of voters but without data subject to protection under the Personal Data Protection Act. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament draw the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82834	Thank you. Committee on Immigration, Honored Committee President Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82835	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament at the 29th session held on 25 January this year discussed the proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters. The Committee shall act on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed Law as an interested working body with a special reference to voters who have residence abroad. It was introduced that this Bill on Lists of Voters did not bring any important newspapers compared to the previous one. Information on the list of voters based on a single IT programme leaves the current way of keeping a list of voters and keeping a record in electronic form allows for more precise records, monitoring and processing of the data contained in the list of voters. A representative of the interior ministry said the interior ministry will compare its data with data provided by the Central State Administration Office according to home numbers. He indicated that there are still persons who have two birth numbers and have 3 to 4 identities for the same person, but the problem will be eliminated. The keeping of records shall be prescribed exclusively in electronic form in a unique manner throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, independent of the seat of the personal data collection manager. Citizens are given an insight into the list of voters throughout the year, except in the days set by law at the time of the election. New legal provisions prescribe the way voters are registered without residence in the Republic of Croatia. They are registered in the Central Logbook of voters in the City of Zagreb by countries where they have registered residence abroad. The list of these voters is based on data from the Central Records on Croatian citizenship of persons without residence in the Republic of Croatia and data on travel documents that indicate the address of dwellings and state of residence. A previous registration of voters to vote abroad has been prescribed in order to avoid unnecessary procurement of voter confirmations and further administration and communication between competent authorities and voter abuse. A representative of the Central State Administration Office has added that the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia will be required to keep a continuous record of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, officials in the DKP will be obliged to permanently inform Croatian citizens of the possibility of prior registration until the voter list is completed 14 days before the election day. The list of voters must be concluded and delivered to confirmation no later than 8 days before the day specified for holding the election. Since it always happens that someone entitled to vote is not listed in the list of voters, Article 39 adds to the possibility of proving the right to vote on the day of the election by confirming the competent authority leading the list of voters. Voting certificates may be issued by diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in which these voters wish to exercise their right to vote on the basis of an official check of voting law and registration of voters. After the debate was held, the Committee on Immigration unanimously decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters is hereby adopted. Second, the opinions, objections and proposals will be presented in the debate to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82836	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? Yeah. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82837	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll cut it short, of course, because I see that we have each other seriously after the bill to argue. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 53rd session of this Bill on Lists of Voters. The debate highlighted that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in all the elections so far pointed to problems because Mr. Palaric you said there should be no problem with the list of voters. In the list of voters of national minorities, there are only problems and we have established this on several occasions. In particular, there is an ever-present problem of the impediment of voters' lists and an unresolved regulation of enrolment of national voters directly affecting the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities to choose their representatives whether it is the choice of representatives in the Croatian Assembly or the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. It has been found that the problem stems in part from the fact that the Law on Lists of Voters was adopted in 92 and is not in line with the newspapers which were introduced in respect of the voting rights of members of the national minority by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities as well as the facts which are the most important thing, in 2002 there are virtually no regulations which would give rise to credible information on the nationality of voters and its enrollment in the list of voters. We still don't know today, Mr. Secretary, today we don't know how the national minority voter list works. We don't know how it is updated, how someone becomes Italian, Croat, Eskimo or what I know, when he turns 18. The proposal for this law, according to the assessment of board members, introduces solutions that should improve the up-to-dateness of the voter list, above all because of the fact that the lists will be conducted in electronic form. Such an opinion is expressed when it comes to the registration of nationality data in the voters' list that the solution proposed in Article 9 of the Law is completely impractical. Since this was established in the light of the draft law at the end of 2002, the amendments and additions to the rules on patterns, residence records and residence were deleted from the records by the nationality data, and reportedly it was a document on the basis of which lists of national minority voters were made. We can now, most likely, determine if we do not do something to make lists of voters of national minorities much smaller which will be both a shame for both the country and for us and the national minorities, and we will point to this in due time. We're not going to Mr. Markov this is a serious matter. There won't be any less... There will be greater shame for Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] That's what I'm telling you. It's expressed such an opinion... I'm not going to tell you how an opinion is expressed, you're not listening to me anyway, but I'm going to tell you what we've concluded, I guess that's what you're interested in because without it, there's not going to be a vote of national minorities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is therefore requested that the proposer, in the final draft of the law, lay down provisions to determine that each voter for the upcoming elections no later than one month before the elections are held, will be invited to any voter to be informed of the date of the election, of the polling place at which he can vote, and of the information contained in the list of voters asking for the same check and, where appropriate, to request their correction and supplementation, including the correction or addition of the nationality data, etc. Two, that the competent authority leading the list of voters is obliged to provide written notice to any citizen who acquires voting rights by turning 18, as Mr Palaric said earlier, on the day of obtaining that right and inform him that he has obtained this right and on the data contained in the list of voters and invite him to correct and supplement the same within the legal period, as appropriate, including the nationality information. With this supplement, it would be ensured that each new voter checks its data in the voters' list in due time, thereby retaining continuity in updating the voters' list. Finally, candidates for representatives and representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, and you will see some clubs talking about it, including the National Minority Club, has this in all the countries of older democracy, with respect to the obligations prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act, have the right to see the lists of voters for the national minority at once in the entire list of voters. Lists of voters are public, no one has to be ashamed of being Italian, Serbian or Montenegrin or what I know. You can just say I won't be on the list of voters, take me down and put me on a certain code as in England. You'll see about that later. I won't tell you much more because you have that paper in front of you. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters is accepted as little as possible, and it is more important to present the position, proposals and opinions in the debate in the draft law to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. I won't speak for the club, but they'll tell you after Mak that we've concluded not to vote for that law if those amendments are to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82838	When the second reading comes. ... Yes, because there are no amendments in the first reading. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When it comes to second reading. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If in the second reading, it wouldn't be quiet. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82839	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. You know that we all agree that a law should be passed on lists of voters who should edit this area and some of the open issues and, among other things, the difference between the list of voters and voters who go to the polls is definitely resolved. But of course, given that this is about status issues, issues concerning and personal data from citizens, a whole series of serious problems and issues that in themselves require a serious debate are immediately opened. That is why we agree that this law is and it is good that it came in the first reading so that we could actually discuss it in principle in the first reading and in the second reading and later amendment to this law. There are a few things that we must make comments on both in principle and individually. First, it seems that this is not as much of a change as it seems at first sight. However, it is among other things that the fundamental change is actually related to making an electronic list of voters. What we support, but we also believe that the book of the voters should be kept for the simple reason, after all, and it is related to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data by which it should, in itself, be used by the Law on the Electronic List because it is simply not possible to use only one way. This is our first principled remark to be considered until the final draft of the law. The second is that we do not accept that Article 2(2) could be amended by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, this law. Pursuant to Article 2(2), I quote: "A list of voters is a condition for the exercise of voting rights on the day of the election." Listing voters is not a condition for exercising voter rights on election day. Election rights are acquired under the Constitution at the age of 18 and the citizen has the right to choose and be elected and has the right to enlist additionally in the list of voters, i.e. to request special confirmation. Therefore, this cannot be a condition for the exercise of electoral rights, and we would particularly like to point out that part. Our third principle remark is actually an insight into the list of voters and that insight into the personal enrolment provided for in Article 13 of this Act where, in accordance with the Data Protection Act, you want the Law on our Constitution guaranteeing the protection of personal data and, among other things, as it is generally known, it is clear and unequivocally said that the data, that each person is guaranteed the security and confidentiality of personal data, that personal data cannot be collected, processed and used only under the terms of a certain law. Now, this Law would have to make very clear the conditions under which it can be seen in the list of voters to actually protect both personal data and at least anyone who wants to see the list of voters, and I don't think that it is, not that it should be banned, should actually be made possible to the individual, so if you want and the holders of the list, the business parties, etc., he would have to sign a statement that he is familiar with personal data. He would have to sign what he uses the data for and therefore should have records in accordance with the Data Protection Act if damage or any consequences arise for any of the voters' lists so that a matter of responsibility can actually be raised and that it can be resolved. This question has not been resolved to the end and therefore we consider and present this observation which should be considered until the second reading. I know it's not very convenient and easy to resolve in this law, but perhaps with some referring norm that points to the Personal Data Protection Act, this issue could be further resolved. The third or fourth groups of our principled remarks are related to the issue of national membership. It is clear that the voter list issue is mainly for the part relating to elections where national membership is important, where representatives of national minorities are elected, regardless of whether it is local, regional or parliamentary, at national level of representation or whether elections for national minority councils should be very careful with such a list of voters. Why? Nationality under the Constitutional Law on the Law of National Minorities is the personal right of every man and citizen and he, as every citizen, writes explicitly, has the right to freely plead as an argument and no one can force him to declare his nationality. It is also clear in Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities to prohibit any discrimination based on membership of a national minority. National minority members shall be guaranteed equality before the law and equal legal protection. That is why we of the SDP believe: (a) that it must not be allowed, but that the law must give the citizen the right to be declared by nationality but must not be imposed on him. And in this respect, we think it would be very important to point out that, in this case, Article 7 when it comes to nationality, in fact, it should be clearly written that voters can declare their nationality, but of course as soon as they can mean they do not have to. Of course, in the elections themselves, voters will take care of what is to be defined. Because it is also the right of members of the national minority to vote for a national minority or a national minority list or to vote as any citizen for the civil option of any list of independent political parties, or so on, etc. Therefore, in this respect, the possibility must not be laid down in that part. Of course, if a citizen is already warned that he will also show his nationality, then it is only in itself understandable that in a copy of the list of voters who are given to polling stations where representatives of national minorities are elected, this information will be present but, of course, with that additional note at the beginning that we said on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club where all personal data are being selected, and in particular these must be protected and all those who have insight into this part of the account in particular. Our fifth observation is related to Article 3(2), which says, within the city or municipality of the list of voters, they are guided by villages, streets and squares. In our local self-government there's local self-government, there's neighborhoods, etc., city halls. Therefore, it would be good to install that termology. The concept of the square should not be incorporated, and at the same time we did not define in the law what we understand in terms of this Law. I don't think this law could build something new, maybe, but we would have to specify exactly what we consider to be in the markets. Of course, the very interesting questions related to Article 4 is the question of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and who would have the right to enter the list of voters where they are recorded among other things in the City of Zagreb, and by the countries in which they have, and now look, very interesting. There is no mention of the dwelling, but of the dwelling. And we think two things must be taken care of. Either it has to have a residence or alternative residence if it has a residence in the Republic of Croatia because we are actually talking about a fictitious residence in the City of Zagreb. Why is this so important? This is because an additional problem is being opened because, among other things, it is said in Article 8 that the competent authorities that will manage such lists will be obliged to provide data on the address of the dwellings and the state of residence for voters referred to in Article 3(3) of this Act without delay. And what if it is about citizens who have double or triple citizenship because we have such cases in the Republic of Croatia who do not have a passport from the Republic of Croatia? They don't, but they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For example, he lives in America, the United States or Canada, etc., has taken the home of the Republic of Croatia and has a housewife and has proof of his nationality and has not taken his passport at the same time. He kept his passport from the United States or I don't know the Canadian passport, etc., etc. for his known reasons and interests. In such a situation, the question arises whether he has the right to be introduced to the list of voters towards his country of residence in the City of Zagreb. That's the first problem we want to point out and we want to be on that issue, we think so. We believe that because the passport may be one of the proofs of citizenship, but the housekeeper is the same. Thus, it is clear that this part should be considered in this regard. But the other problem is opening up. Why should persons who have a fictitious residence in the Republic of Croatia and who really do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but who have or have a residence and residence elsewhere would be registered in the list of voters only next to, and tied only to the capital. It's an open question, and we're asking that it actually be reconsidered once more. It is not a good solution to the Law on Citizenship, nor is it good from this solution now offered that these persons are solely fictitiously determined by residence in the capital, why we should not start and open a debate at all about the fact that this is being conducted by the police administration where the citizen is registered, or to give his/her information. That's number one. And number two, here you definitely have to open the question because it is not about paying attention to parliamentary elections where representatives of people with dual citizenship have the right to choose only their representatives and MPs. This is now about the other issue that is related to the local self-government elections where it was prescribed among other things that only persons with a residence of at least 3 months in their area, but not now more fictitiously. How are you going to prove that it's not fictional when you sign up here to have a place of residence because otherwise you call in a citizen who has a place outside of the capital? It is a problem that can open up the problem of different interpretations and ultimately challenge the actual credibility of the election. The sixth group of problems we see are actually related to this call a democratic step, and this is related to the articles especially in the 33rd, 35th, which actually give authority to representatives, i.e. representative bodies of municipalities, our cities, etc. name the commission, or commission, which will verify the final voter list. Now, look, the lists of voters run by the state authorities, and under the Law on the System of Local Self-Government, the state administration through its bodies or directly the central authorities are overseeing the legality of the work of the representative bodies and these chieftains. How is it possible, in fact, that the supervision of the legality of the work of the state administration will be done by representatives of the representative bodies? It's something replaced. I know that the attempt of democracy here was well-intentioned, but the question remains how does that part work? Whoever is responsible for the irresponsible or, for example, the illegally drawn list, the final list of voters for a particular constituency or polling post. Obviously, this is not the kind of question that can remain in itself. In this respect, it is clear that something further will have to be done. Of course, there are still a few things that we would like to mention at the same time or in particular point, and that is among other things the question that this issue of appeal should be considered, you know, where it is said that, in the case of the Municipal Court, when, after its resolution, the appeal is not allowed. All right. Let's say there's no appeal allowed, which actually introduces an administrative two-stage procedure,... The municipal court's trial, but the question is, can the appeal be ruled out here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that's a question. That's a question because not only does the Constitution say that everyone in front of state and judicial bodies is equal, but it also says that a complaint is allowed on a particular body. Now what's this about? What's voting rights and enrollment in the voter's list? These are constitutionally guaranteed human rights and freedoms and it seems to me that it would be difficult to exclude the appeal here and remains an additional issue if it is a malignant form or discrimination based on, say, Article 14. The Constitution for discrimination pursuant to Article 14. The constitution questions whether it offends the constitutional rights of voters, for example, if, to remind ourselves, all of us would be discriminated against from the title of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property and birth, etc. And that. And now allow not on purpose, but very simply by accident as the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done with one conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, when the local elections were completed, concluded after the local elections, whether it established the fact that the exchange of representation of members of national minorities was consistent with the number of voters in the 2001 census, and the Constitutional Law said that it must be in line with the list of voters, not the census, i.e. after practically it had to be in line with the final census of 2005. So there was obviously a little discrimination here. Not knowingly, not intentionally, etc., but then the question arises whether in such a situation she has the right not only to appeal in the second degree, but also to open the issue of protection of electoral rights as rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution before the Constitutional Court? We believe that all these questions should be considered once again until the second reading, and if it were to be further elaborated and installed, we think that it would only give us a higher degree and better quality of this Law in the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82840	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82841	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Normally, the issue of orderly and up-to-date voter list is one of the most important issues for the regularity of holding any election. This means that we can achieve the fundamental constitutional right for Croatian citizens and citizens to choose and to choose. But as soon as we are related to the orderly and up-to-date keeping of the voters list, we need to be aware and realistic that this is not just being solved by this Law on the list of voters. It is, in fact, a number of laws which, if applied consistently and in the manner prescribed by those laws, and when I say the laws, I mean the Law on residence and residence, on the grounds of diplomatic consular offices and other laws. If all these bodies work on legal obligations in a timely and effective manner, then there would be no situation that we have had so far that the list of voters was unscheduled, i.e. that it was not managed properly and that there were many cases that made it impossible for Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens to exercise their constitutional right, means voting in the elections. Therefore, the key is that the main answer is that the competent authorities, and here says the MUP and these offices of the general government in the counties and the city, they are offices for the general administration as well as diplomatic consular representations. The point is that they do their jobs in good time and effectively. So far, experience in the 90s elections has pointed to two, three main groups of problems. The biggest problem was the situation, the Ministry of the Interior is that it keeps records of residences and data for the list of voters delivers to this state body for the affairs of the general administration in the county and the City of Zagreb. Therefore, there were many different situations that Croatian citizens had an orderly registered residence but from, for the sake of sleekness, reluctantly whether the Ministry of the Interior, the competent police administration did not provide that information or that this General Administration Office did not include that information in the list of voters and it was one of the weak points in this section concerning the exchange of data between the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Administration and these competent state authorities, the General Administration Office. That part I hope that this part of the introduction of electronics in this area will finally be resolved to be timely and complete. But for the situation that we know happened, which day is currently in the list of voters, which is why you have in some municipalities and cities in Croatia that the number of people who are in the list of voters is the same or even smaller than the number of people in the same municipality. Let us take an example of the Municipality of Plaski. She has more in the voters' list than she has residents. We've got a lot of municipalities that or cities that have a situation around here somewhere. How do you remove it? Without the appropriate amendments and additions to the Housing Act, it is impossible to remove. This law won't fix it. How is it possible that in one address, the situation was in Zagreb and in some other places that at the address where the apartment of 30 quads is registered 80 people, they have a residence. Is this law settled? It doesn't work. Are we going to remove these shortcomings by this law? We're not gonna get rid of it. These shortcomings can be addressed by the Law on residence and residence and that the Ministry of the Interior in this work has the power to level the status that it has in the residence records with the real situation and with the real situation. It means that they delete from the residence records of persons who are essentially reported and neither alive nor intend to live, nor can they live in an address that is not their property and various other situations. So this isn't going to solve it, let's be aware and realistic. If he does not get rid of the Ministry of the Interior, we must also give him a legal opportunity under the Law on residence and residence so that he can resolve the situation. We're not going to solve anything, and let's not sell a story about how we're going to solve it with this law, that part we're not going to solve. The second is this situation that I hope you will finally resolve, it is a neat update of the data or erasure from the list of dead persons' voters. That means it's the same competent authority for the general administration's affairs, and so far it's always been incomprehensible for us at the HSP club. The same office of reference, one keeping a list of voters, the other keeping records of deceased persons and not having time to level the data within the same office. So that's the part for which the responsibility is borne by these competent state bodies in the county and the municipalities and where you do the surveillance, right? You're in charge. Therefore, I think that this problem can be easily solved, but strict enforcement and law enforcement are important. Now, the third problem is these diplomatic consular offices of ours. It's obvious that in this section, they become their own purpose. Namely, they do not carry out those jobs that they have under the law or the Law on the list of voters, this introduces that new obligation, previous registrations as well as the Law on residence where they have the same obligation and residence, they do not do their jobs. And we need to be aware and realistic. But I can work and have leveled data, but there's still this part of the residence. If a Croatian citizen is leaving Croatia, meaning in another country, he retains citizenship but must report these data, he has data at the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, and the data must be sent to the diplomatic consular office of which he comes. Such a situation has always been simple, for example, on the issue of military records and the question of recruits, military service, and that part has been well-ready. But you have a variant and a case that that Spanish, a war criminal, comes to the embassy in London, does business and they don't know at all, I mean after that, he's been there 15 times. Therefore, there is already proof that they are not doing their job at all. Yeah... I'm on my own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, the point is to train diplomatic consular representations. I have such examples, unfortunately, many where the persons who are being led on the list are either being convicted or being prosecuted, and they regularly come out to our diplomatic consular offices and they're not doing anything. It's a visible variant of how and how it's done. Now, so around these parts we need to be aware and introduce the possibility of a letter vote. So 401 000 are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in Croatia and who all countries that have diaspora from the United States, Poland, Italy allow other countries to vote and that is mainly important for parliamentary elections. We have Mr Furi Radin's case, our colleague, who has an orderly vote for Parliament, for the elections in Italy, right? ... That's what he knows, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So why don't we do it. You don't give such an opportunity to do it here. This is not given...... It's not too late. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not too late if it's to be done. It's not too late and there's plenty of time if the states have that, that have their own diaspora, and that's also an obligation to the Constitution. So, making it possible to vote in a letter, it is a very simple way, not to be afraid, because it is Croatia's obligation to observe constitutional provisions. So every Croatian citizen has the right to choose and be chosen and I think that principle should be done as I say the United States, Poland, Italy and other countries that have a great diaspora. And in this way we will also ensure and implement the work and constitutional principles and provisions. Also related to the law itself, of course there are attempts to transfer responsibility to someone else for disorderly lists of voters at some point. This is an attempt related to the Committee for Lists of Voters, Article 33, 34, who spoke by counterpart Arlovic. Be careful, if the state bodies lead and what's wrong, they have to keep records of the voters' list of what to put there now, commissions that will appoint representative bodies? There's no need. That's what law needs to do. They'll make state bodies, the state will, because the state has to lead, it leads. What they will be able to do if some things in the list don't understand what was wrong with the Ministry of the Interior, for example, or if there is a mistake on the part of the General Administration Office that runs the list of voters. What can they do at a given time? Therefore, in such or similar variants, it is necessary to go to that part of the two-stage process that these things are then controlled by persons from the central authorities. So they control the situation for the bodies of the state authorities that work in order to say it legally in the first degree. So that we would have meaning neat and, neat, neat and up-to-date voter listing is necessary for these three, four situations where we have been shown problems so far. It means working and applying regulations from the interior ministry, state offices for general administration in the counties and cities and diplomatic and consular offices. These answers are why our lists of voters in certain areas are not neat and up-to-date. So they're not neat and up-to-date because of the fact that they don't exchange data in good time. That if one body makes its commitment to another body, the other body, and in this case, these bodies are state administrations for the affairs of the general administration do not work on time and then these various confusions occur and whatever I say, Mr. Arlović, for this provision of Article 2. It is true that "de iura" he is right but "de facto" if a man is not listed in the voters list will not be allowed to vote that day. So he won't be allowed to vote because he's not in the voters' list, and that's a clear situation. Now it would only ultimately refer to this proposal by the National Minority Club that they can have those lists of voters. I think that's where he should be, from the legal point of view here, be careful. You can't give personal data to anyone unless a person agrees to it. I can't give up. We must be, in one part we are talking about the need to protect the personal data of Croatian citizens. In the other part, they would use your personal data. Legally, it's possible, two options how to solve it. So you can get for those people who plead to agree to that variant. If they don't, it's out there everywhere, you won't get the information for it. You'll get the DVD, you'll get the CD. Legally, it is possible only in this way with consent because it is personal data. I even think it would be counter-constitutional to say that, as a rule, all the data will be provided if someone doesn't deny it, that a statement that he believes, a statement that he doesn't want his personal data to be given for other purposes. So this is what the colleagues of the National Minority Club said. It's a very sensitive legal issue. It is clear to us at the HSP Club what they want and how to do, but there is a way to take the duty to pay attention to the fact that in the exercise of one right, their right to the privacy of those who do not want it. You can't commit to someone and you can't look for information about someone if he doesn't want you to have that information. It is in all the legal states and all the regulated states one principle from which we cannot stand down. We can go so we can make a difference for all those who give it to be. Or let's say we introduce what the United States has to do with that part of pre-registration. That everyone who wants to go to the elections has to sign up to go to the elections, so there's a pre-registration that you have in this part and then only those who have passed that part of the pre-registration are going to go to the elections. Then there goes one easier control and everything else as possible. There are therefore different models and possibilities for the outside but let us first determine that we have neat and up-to-date lists of voters and that people, Croatian citizens, allow everyone their right to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82842	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82843	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Article 45 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that Croatian citizens have a general and equal voting right with 18 years of age in accordance with the law. The right to vote is exercised in the direct elections through a secret vote. In the elections for the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic, the exercise of the electoral right of the Republic of Croatia also ensures for its citizens who, at the time of the elections, are located outside its borders so that they can also vote in countries where they are located or in any other way by law. So that's a constitutional definition of the fundamental constitutional right that all our citizens who are 18 have the right to vote. Indeed, the proposal for a law on voter censuses states that enrolling the voters list is a condition for exercising voting rights on the day of the election. Can we talk about if that's a condition? Is the most affected by the manipulation of this paragraph 2 but it is doubtless that in a technical sense it is indeed an insight that someone would exercise their electoral right to be and to be listed in the voter's list. Because if he has the right to vote, and according to the Constitution, of course, he has it, and he's not listed in the voter's list, then he has to carry out all that procedure to be subsequently entered into the electoral code and go through everything that needs to be passed. And that is why this Law on Lists of Voters is very important because it is very important for the exercise of this fundamental constitutional right. When we look at what is the most important change in this law, it is indeed the law that determines that the list of voters is no longer hand-in-hand in those files, in cards, than that it is run by electronic means, and what is today a practice, regardless of what is in the law to the current one who is in power to run through files. We're in the 21st century. The technique has gone far and there are no obstacles. There's really no need for me to think that this is run through cards, regardless of what the SDP Club thinks should stay on the cards. But it seems to me we also have the Law on Electronic Document. We have, indeed, a series of possibilities to do it in a modern and modern way. When we look at what is a condition for a good list of voters it is a condition that all those participants, all those state bodies that actually provide data for making that list of voters is the basic condition that they are all doing their job correctly. Because what's the voter list based on? The list of voters is run for each city, for every municipality, within these cities for each street, for each quarter is run. However, on the basis of which they are entered in the list of voters, this is done on the basis of data from citizenship records, travel documents and residence records. Police administrations or stations keeping records of their residence are obliged to the competent authority, so that the county body which manages the list of voters will provide all information on the persons registered with 18 years of life, on the application and check-out of their residence, on the change in the address of the dwellings of persons who have turned 18 years of life, on the reception or termination of Croatian citizenship. The home offices shall immediately be obliged to provide a list of voters with a notice on dead persons aged 18 years, marriage notices, change of personal name, gender change. The municipal court shall immediately be obliged to make a judicial decision, which shall be completely deprived of the ability of a person to deliver to the competent authority which runs the list of voters in whose territory such person is resident. So, if all these bodies, if the parent offices, if the police departments become up-to-date and in time deliver to the county office responsible for keeping the list of voters, provide all this information with no problems and no irregularities in that list should be provided. And this is the situation in the Republic of Croatia today that applies to those records kept by our bodies, but to citizens who have residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. If we look at all these choices we've had so far, some major and larger objections to these elections have not been made by the participants themselves, nor by the local public, nor by the international public. However, there is one problem indeed and these are the voters who vote in other countries and where it is really important that ours, our diplomatic missions or consular offices carry out all the necessary actions for the previous registration of voters abroad. There are some problems, and there are some things that are very difficult to influence. Because what would matter, it would be important for these diplomatic and consular representations to have as much cooperation as possible with these competent authorities abroad, with their home offices, with their police stations to get information from them about which of our citizens who live and have a residence abroad have died or certain changes have occurred in their residence and similar things. When we have this in one quality way, then the problems will not even be about voting in diplomatic and consular offices. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal for this law on voters. I think it's a very correct way of sending the law into the process. At first, we had a round table where actually all the professional public and others interested had the opportunity to make certain remarks that they had on the draft proposal for this law. After that, some of these remarks were already included in the bill itself and incorporated. Today, we have it in our first reading, and it seems to me that the law is quite well done and that even until the final proposal, there should be no significant changes in that law, nor should we. All these questions raised about residence, related to a lettering vote, are not all the subject of this law together. The subject of this law is a list of voters. In this law, all very precisely stated and which bodies keep lists, which verify the bodies. It is pointed out that any other state authorities should also supply to the competent authorities the list of voters that the data should be provided to me if all participants are to do their job in a quality and good way, there is no obstacle to us having an up-to-date and good and complete list of voters. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82844	Thank you. The HSLS club. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82845	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honored representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. We all advocate and want the election game to run in one, to be regular, to be fair, to be correct, and to really no one who has lost has any objections to those who have won. And that these should be the winners, and the winners have no bitter taste that they have won a false game. And for that very reason, the list of voters is one of the important elements just so that this game, the election political game, will pass in one normal, regular tone. But to solve just all of our problems, we can actually divide them into conceptual and procedural, right? Procedural ones have just said that from Stalin's institutions to Cardeli's constitutions there were no problems at all or even conceptual ones, and they were not allowed to be mentioned procedurally. And the procedure, however, is shown that it is not obvious that as soon as we change something and detect that, in 1992, the basis of the March moon is actually not great it shows that we are still not living in the period from Stalin's constitution to Cardeli's but something else, so that there are conceptual problems, and that these words also show themselves as little, they become composing and we are looking for the best solutions. There's no point in talking here normally about the electoral system, their modalities of the electoral system. Also, procedural problems include a system of control over the elections themselves. Then, the election campaign funding system. It's all actually very important elements that create this very impression that the winners are truly worthy winners, and that the defeated have no objections to those who have won. So the list of voters doesn't really make much sense in our opinion if it isn't networked with these systems that I've been talking about, with the surveillance system, so in some times we have to admit, in this modern, democratic Croatia there after the 1990s and the ballot transport system from the polling site, there have always been strange things happening there. Some sacks of votes were found, and it showed, indeed, that, nevertheless, with us democracy had this darker side, and there were always those who tried to sort out the question of the electoral winner in some way and certainly no one was comfortable with being a winner in a fake battle. Let's remember '95. Some have reached that famous limit overnight, a 5.01% threshold. As others grew, some fell rapidly, or some fell, and others grew rapidly. Well, then, some were declared winners around midnight, and then the voices of sailors and prisoners arrived, and the winners changed rapidly in '95, say '95. But there was that I said before and after. And I hope that really this technical, procedural question is that the state administration will do anything to really solve it. Here's to admit that we're leaving one pedestrian way to solve this list, the manual way to solve this list, that today it's all computerized, it's all digital, the technological revolutions are such that really those problems that we've been dealing with there in the '90s that it won't solve the problems at the end of 2007. And in that sense, I, no colleague, and there is, there is a colleague Pavelic. I believe it's him, that's... the lyrics and he said they were at home, that they grew up. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The place says that management is certainly not what the boredom empire is thought to be, usually, that all these managers have some on their sleeves, that they are working hard and that they are, say they are literary, or civil moths, rather than that within the administration they are actually achieving our realm of freedom and that exactly how the administration works is ours, that everyday political life is then much more free and that it takes place according to some very different principles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe, well, that liberal principle that it will prevail both in the work and in this state administration, that we will indeed get what we really want and we want things to work out so we don't get embarrassed, that what, as last time for the presidential elections, made it a two-place vote and that actually nobody compared it. And it's obvious, in fact, that the system doesn't work and that on the sidelines when this kind of excess happens then no one really needs the vote of these dead souls. We've read those books. And I say, there's no need to say exactly that there are some such circumstances that always cast a shadow on something, yet I would say the maturity of Croatian democracy. We have proved every time, they say democracy is confirmed when those who won the first win in the same way lose and have no objection and there is indeed the most logical way that the results of the election are recognised. We had it in 2000. We repeated it all in 2003 and indeed in Croatia with the handover of the authorities ahead of the process with the original process there were no major objections. Well then there's really no reason why we and around these, and around this list of voters really don't realize that there can be 4 million and 400,000 of us as it turns out there really isn't a population in Croatia younger than 18 years old, i.e. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is also a voter. And yet it still shows that for a while we have to suffer all the negative consequences of those events from the early 1990s when a large number of citizens of this country left their addresses with their own free will or otherwise. It is now that it is time that order is introduced here and that there is really no need for the OSCE to lecture us on some elements of democracy, and it is indeed that all those who live here are allowed to vote without really no one having the right to vote 2 or 3 or more times. And what counterpart Furio Radin was also talking about is a list of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will vote in favour of the lists of national minorities, it is a right acquired. We've usually skipped a whole series of conceptual debates in these last 15 years. Something that's acquired right should be respected. It should be made possible in any way to enable anyone who wishes to articulate and legitimize on the day of the elections as a representative of the minority to enable him to do so. For that, I think of the very fact that those 8 seats in this House will be guaranteed. This shows, indeed, that the Croatian Parliament is one of the few parliaments that truly respects and exactly the fact that there are also a number of non-Croatian peoples who have the right to live in Croatia and to be represented by their representatives. And it also allows these people to act as political Croats, i.e. to vote for both these and national lists. That's, right now, that's a fact. That fact should be accepted and I should say do everything to make all these details that really do. One thing we need to be clear, nothing gets ahead of us, everything needs to be predicted, everything needs to be described, and that's exactly what these are. You received these comments from GONG which means the first round, which means the second round. If you voted in Zagreb in the first round, and in the second round, you will vote in London how you will make it possible. These are the things that really are just that belong to this procedural aspect of this election process. And nothing else. It's not conceptual. It's not, he's not touching the essence of things but exactly that actually elections in any way can go through in a regular way and just that... and the possibility that something can happen between the first and second rounds and that people are not static mammals, but that they actually move, travel and work and that the elections are not more important in any way determined in a negative way by the future of political relations in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say I'm still a liberal proud of all those gains in the '90s until here. Let's remember, back in the '90s, they were citizens of the so-called '90s. The diaspora had to come here and vote. People were highly motivated, so they came. Things change and there's no need to look at things from the position of the '90s when they were one time. In some ways, there are really these experiences that should slowly begin to be introduced here. Whether it's electronic, whether it's a correspondence vote or some other way, but it certainly requires every citizen to have that constitutional right to choose and be chosen, and that we are not much more speculative here. Because I don't think that with a list of voters or with a certain set of dead souls, something can be remembered that wouldn't actually be regular and that nobody needs it. In this respect, the HSLS Club will give full support to this Law on the List of Voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82846	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Doroteja Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82847	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think I'm going to be pretty critical of this one-sided law. And on the other hand, I'm going to give some examples from developed countries of democracy in which they solved their problems with the voter lists. Because if something is to be resolved, then it is necessary to treat it seriously, systematically, and to seek solutions from others or to conduct a wider discussion and involve experts. This law has been approached extremely insecurely and casually in order to get the impression that this law is in the process just for the sake of form, and not to remove all problems with the list of voters. I don't know if the Central State Administration's ever bothered to see solutions in other countries, so take some good solutions from there, of course, if that's of interest to us. All objections addressed to the previous Law on Lists of Voters remain now. In my view, this law has not solved anything, so that we have more voters than residents, that we can vote dead souls, and that we have no penalties for abuse and voter lists, and also abuse in the vote itself. In some countries that are ten times bigger than our own, the lists are better arranged, but of course it costs democracy. Here I am, taking out an example of how the UK solves the problem of voter lists and I'm going to give you some technical information that I think is worth the attention. In 1983, in Great Britain, the law required that they have a special office and special officials working on the voters list. So these aren't parents like us now who know they've got a lot of work to do with the birth certificate, the book of the married, the Motherbooks of the dead, they've got weddings to do, so they've got their hands full, and they still have to update their ballots. It is a job for these U.K. officials to issue a voter register every year, because every year in Great Britain, every year, every household gets a form to fill out and return to that office. The form must include who can vote and those who will have the right to vote with the place of residence next year, all of which must be delivered to that office by the 15th year of the current year. Someone will say it's expensive, but if you want to have something arranged, then you have to pay for it, because democracy is expensive. If someone does not return the form or if they provide false information, they may be punished with a maximum penalty of up to a thousand pounds because they have to register but do not have to go to the vote. It's been like that since 1918. The register of voters is a public document that is available and can be controlled by any citizen, political party and so can be sure that the data from the register is correct and that there are no abuses. By 2002, a copy of the voters' register could be bought, and it could be purchased by companies, organisations or individuals, political parties, and could be used for any purpose. And now, under the new law of 2002, there are restrictions on buying, and therefore there are two types of registers. The first is a full version of the register containing all the names, addresses and all the updates, and everyone can view it, copy it in notes of course, but can't get copies and can't be used for other purposes, and the register is kept in the city administration. The second version of the register is a restricted register that can be purchased, of course its copies and can be used for any purpose, and any voter in the form he receives every year may be shown not to want to be in a restricted register and that register is kept separately. We are not special in the diaspora vote in Croatia. In the UK, diaspora can also vote since 85, but they vote in favour of Parliament and the European Parliament, and registration applications must be completed and submitted before leaving Great Britain and applications are renewed every year, and officials send them a reminder each year to be listed for next year, and so they can vote 15 times, sixteenth year, because they are believed to have moved out of the UK. Maybe what's more interesting. If a real register of voters is run, it can be voted in even two places. An example works if a student or someone lives half the time, for example. in Zagreb, half the time in Rijeka, means he lives in two places. In the local elections, he can vote twice. For the local self-government of the City of Zagreb or for the Local Self-Government of the city of Rijeka, but cannot vote for parliament twice. If he accidentally abuses his right to vote for local self-government in two places, then he can be punished with five thousand pounds of fines. Another interesting thing is that homeless people in the UK can also apply and vote, and they apply to the address where they spend a great deal of their time or where they can be contacted. By 2000, any change of data or supplement may also be reported every day from, except from 1.10 to 1.12. when these officials prepare the register of voters issued as books, and any change may also be reported up to 11 days before the elections themselves. Perhaps what is interesting as the secrecy of the data that is very much spoken about today, since 2006 can be registered anonymously. Instead of names and last names and addresses, a code is written which is at the end of the book. So conceptual differences are huge. It all comes from the residence, so it's all from the police department. In Great Britain, citizens report everything. They get every year the form they fill out, and that's the most accurate data, and then it can't happen that we have more voters than residents. In the Law itself, there are also contradictory articles that I hope will be corrected until the second reading. For example, Article 6(2) is in collapsing as set out in Article 9. The number of citizens is then mentioned in Article 7. We know for a fact that we have passed the law that no one can be asked for a home number. In Article 27, however, the voter list must be concluded and delivered at the latest 8 days before the election day. This raises the question, in those 8 days, all those who will become the adult in which they will apply and how they will be able to vote. So there are many examples that the law is quite contradictory and I hope that in the Central State Office it will improve until the second reading along with all the remarks that were here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82848	Thank you. SDSS Club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82849	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I will first say that this intention to better edit the list of voters is fine and we certainly want to support it. This content of the proposal that we have is appreciated as a good basis but that some interventions are needed small or large, I will say them here so as to be taken. And then, on the basis of that, you could, in our opinion, make a law that would be good, despite the differences that we've heard here and here for these speakers, these speakers before me. I'm going to say a few questions here that have the character of our remarks and I'm going to make suggestions as I think and in what way should this thing be fixed or these details should be fixed, should or might be corrected. First thing, that's this article 7. Here you have the contents of the list containing 6, not the 8 elements that the list contains. I will single out this issue of citizens' home number only on the basis of the discussions we had both on the board and in those talks before that. It's a question of what we're going to do with the unique number of citizens because we once said we shouldn't use it, we use it here. I guess there are a number of practical reasons that he's standing there, but in principle there's some doubt left that I have to admit I don't know the answer to. I would accept the reasons that it's practically due to the ongoing identification that he stands there and if he tips on it I would, therefore, give in to this doubt, in my remark. It could stay there. So that's something that, in this story of mine, is certainly the least questionable thing. The second thing I point out here is Article 9. This is about registering members of minority communities. The law says here if the basic entry does not contain data, this proposal actually, on nationality, then this information will be entered on the basis of a statement. There are two things I want to point out as somewhat or somewhat problematic. This proposal says "can be entered". I think this formula can be entered, it doesn't say that it must actually be "sent". Whoever runs it is obliged to sign it up. It can't be shown in the category "can." The second thing that has been a problem here since 2000 is the residence records that go through the issue of personal documents do not record national belongings. What does that mean? This means that since 2000 official data on the basis of which this part of the census is formed does not contain this national identification. Why is that a problem? Well, the problem is that the legal and actual position in this matter that we're talking about, so the legal and actual position of members of minority communities depends on whether that identity is inscribed. And if he's not here, then you have some kind of non-registration but some kind of potential violation of minority rights. The other thing that happens with this is that it can be said that in a hidden way, I will say, it undermines national, it undermines identity. You know? He's denying identity if he's not on official record. We can always tell a man to go, so let him take an interest so he can sign in. We know how it goes in practice and we know what the circumstances are and how much motive there is that man doesn't really care about it. The third thing that's important. Thus, the absence of this information in a consistent manner is accompanied by an assimilation by an official duty. I'm not talking about intent, I'm talking about sort of automatic technical performance. So much for this issue of national membership as set out in Article 9. The third thing I want to do here is to trouble me, this is the question of Article 13 and the correction in the list of voters. Correction of the data in a given list of voters. Article 13 states "ornamental or written registration request". So, it is said that each citizen will review his enrolment, demand a supplement, and if it is not correct at least 14 days later, and then it says below that he will do so orally or on written request. There's one thing I'd like to clarify, and another thing I'd like to make clear to me. This matter of clarification. Secretary of State you said the data is led to what's called automatic data processing. It is progress and I respect and refer to data search on the Internet, but we have a practical situation that most of the population will objectively not be able and subjectively does not have the will to do so. So, just referring to it, it's going to, it's going to have options, it's easy for you, it's not a guarantee. What I want to make more clear to me is this matter of intervention, oral or written request. I would like to understand that this written request means a written submission under the rules of the administrative procedure, and if it is a written submission under the rules of the administrative procedure, it satisfies me, but that means that I can send my intervention by mail. I'd like to find that it's really like that and then I'd say that solution is fine. Now there's something else I want to add about this at the latest 14 days before the election. I would agree that this deadline is 14 days before the election is in order, provided that all mechanisms that go before that and intelligence, information, and availability, and the possibility to intervene went smoothly. But since it's not going to go smoothly, then this 14-day deadline can be problematic. I am in this place precisely because of what I said I say we should support, we will support what fellow Furio here said that people are writtenly notified enough time early to know what their status is and what data with their name is on the electoral list, and if, if so and if so, then this deadline is 14 days before the election. Next thing you know, the fourth thing I want to mention here is this issue of previous registration of people outside Croatia. I'm particularly pointing out the next thing. The diplomatic consular office here writes will enable such intervention. What I, two things suggest here. The first writes previous voter registration can be performed. I think there has to be a formulation being carried out and that we can do this, we have to do it at all, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, it has to be, or it has to be, it has to be, and it has to be, of course, the competent authority. And there's something else we need to add here. And this previous registration in the decapitated list must contain this provision from the 13th oral or written request in my opinion in the same way as the administrative procedure, and if we install it there then I think we've done something that compensates for this squeezed, strict 14-day deadline and in some way we're replacing all the negative circumstances that we know are happening in practice, and may be at risk and may be a denial of voting rights. The next thing I want to point out is this article of the 32nd edition of the list. Here in your solution it says from a completed and confirmed list of voters the competent authority that runs the list of voters can give. I think it's gotta stay away, and that's where I want to be consistent. So it gives numerical information about voters and now participants, etc. There are two things here as a problem. First this is to give, the second thing is that this sentence here is not well complex and should be proposed, there is even if you want language doubts etc., but also well that is that, you need to rewrite the sentence and here my colleagues will say what is mentioned here before whether only the numerical data or the nominal data. I'll bow down to what I do, and we'll bow down to what... who formulate a club of national minorities, I reckon here is personally talking about it, to talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these two things have to give and I think it's necessary. The next thing I'm going to mention, this question of the accuracy of the list at a given time. I want to support you, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think the accuracy of the list at a given time is not possible to be absolute. It's living matter first, it's a living thing and of course you always have that change. But if we can achieve what I've been saying that people are being informed and that in an easy way, they get a chance to make an intervention, then that thing will turn out to be good. And I'm finally gonna say the next thing. In addition to this enabling simple individual data-repair intervention and this precision of some of the solutions that I have set out here, we will give this law, this content, this proposal, support. I suggest that this support will be conditioned by clearing up these issues because I believe it is decisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82850	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82851	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. If, in the light of this law or in the opening explanation of the Secretary of State, how many registered citizens of the Republic of Croatia today may, with a smaller reserve, be told how much of the proposed law. A few months ago, I tried to determine how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have enrolled in the book of citizenship and then gave the number that came out not from newspaper articles, not from statistics, but from registrations in the book of citizenship was 8 and a half million. Eight and a half million. However, in these 8 and a half million were active and passive citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and when I explained what they were active and what passive, I received the answer that passive deceased and active live citizens. And the book of citizenship and the acquisition of citizenship is one of the essential elements or the right to enroll in the list of voters. And that's probably why a series of remarks that we've had so far and the opportunities that I'm about to make, that's probably why, no matter how we interpret or interpret it, it's a suspicion that something with the lists has been wrong so far. And I must say that the majority of the provisions on how to fix the voter list, the continued obligation of the state authorities to settle the lists of voters is extremely commendable and good because this is the first step towards not having to discuss this issue as a subject that has any suspicion or controversy behind it in two or three or four years. But there are some solutions to the proposed law that I do not understand. And since this is about first reading so that we can make a decision on whether to support it in our first reading or prepare amendments for second reading, it would be good to now remove the dilemma in the first reading of the Government or the Government's representative. Article 4 refers to voters who are introduced into the voters' lists according to the place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. We understand that. The second category is those voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and there is a solution to how to get them into the list of voters well. But there is another category of voters and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and these are those who have registered residences in both the Republic of Croatia and abroad. And it is legal because according to the Law on residence and residence, citizens of the Republic of Croatia may have a registered residence in Croatia and in another country. And now I'm asking the question. If Article 4 clearly defines these two categories, where are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia resident in Croatia or any other country? How are they entered into the list of voters, or if it is established by means of a unique number of citizens, that they are listed twice in the voter list, how will they be written from or from which voter list? If someone does not believe that there are such citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I ask you and refer you to the Law on residence and residence and you will see that it is absolutely legal, because this Law on residence and residence although it was in the parliamentary procedure we have not changed. The second dilemma is related to Article 15(2), which reads, the previous registration is done for voters without residence in the Republic of Croatia and voters with residence in Croatia who stay abroad longer. What does it mean to stay abroad more permanently, or who, and by what criteria, will decide that someone is staying abroad more permanent? A week, a month, six years, what is considered a more secret stay abroad? Because they haven't checked out their residence in Croatia, but they stay abroad longer. Is it possible to replace the term, more permanently with a precisely defined time-limit, to avoid the possibility of different interpretations in different elections and by different committees to draw up a list of voters? On the other hand, Article 21 regulates registration, temporary voter registration, so if a Croatian citizen who has a residence in Croatia on the day of the election is not in his place of residence, but somewhere else and wishes to vote there, that change or delete from one voter list and the provisional entry into another list of voters must take place no later than 14 days before the vote is held. Why 14, if it's 8 days before the election deadline for closing the voter list? And final. So far, election participants have the right to make an insight into the voters' list. Making an insight into the list of voters in practice was that you could come into the office of the state administration in the county, sit down and list a book of voters. We believe that any party to the election, therefore the political party, independent candidates of the independent list, have the right to get a list of voters. There is a problem of secrecy or a protected part of the personal data they say cannot be held by anyone. However, in this law it is defined that a regular number, last name and name, nationality, home number of citizens, gender, birth date, residence, street, home number, subnumber and settlement and observation are entered in the list of voters. In a document that comes to the polls, which is an extract from the voters list, there is no home number or nationality, or has nationality only for those elections held under national membership. And that's good. If, by the second reading, consent is reached with competent authorities dealing with the protection of personal data and this list of voters in which these two essential elements do not represent the secrecy of the data for each voter or citizen of the Republic of Croatia, we do not see any reason why no provision is introduced in the law that the participants of the election have the right to obtain a copy of the list of voters in electronic form, of course not in... With these other proposed solutions that are in the law with the answers to these questions that I have asked for us, the proposed text of the law with another dilemma would be acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's also on that round table that Mr. Secretary of State mentioned, and in many documents it was suggested that the issue of leading the voter of oversight and control could be a list, a job of the State Election Commission because we now have it as a permanent body. And that it would be good to transfer it from the state administration as a regulated body for the management and control of the voters' list to the State Election Commission, which I see very useful, logical and smart and ask immediately whether and in this direction the Proposer can prepare a second reading, too, to consider that this suggestion that has been given and on that Round Table is respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82852	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, respected representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82853	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of National Minorities has a special interest in the debate in this law because it is an essential condition for the exercise of the electoral rights of national minorities from the Constitution, the Constitutional Law and other rules relating to national minorities. Since this is the first reading, we will give a more broad explanation for the issues that we are interested in with some comments and suggestions already being concluded on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and presented here at the beginning of the debate on this agenda point. Here's our thinking. In Article 4(3) and Article 5(2) thereof, it is proposed that voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia be registered in the central register of voters under quotes in Article 4. «in the city of Zagreb». While Article 5 on the same subject is said: "The Authority of the City of Zagreb". So two different formulations. We believe that this should be done in the Central State Administration Office because it would be more objective and credible and avoid any possible suspicions because it is the central place of state administration. Secondly, that unfortunate number of citizens, I say unhappy because it's not there, and yet it has it. And we don't even know today who doesn't ask us all for that number of citizens, and no matter what I agree, or we agree that it is in this law because it allows for a clean relationship between who is who in the list of voters, and in three or four places we have it listed. But here's a chance to say that you really need to solve that mystery of parent number once. Because I don't know my home number, and I come to the bank or I don't know where he says, "Please give me your birth number." I say, "I don't know him." "I'm sorry, when you bring us the birth number, then we'll do something there for you." So here's what goes to such a global one that's not directly connected because we support that parent number here, in these few places but here we are challenged and we want to say it again on this occasion. Because on several occasions we've already said that. Articles 9 and 13 discuss a statement on national minority membership, and I think that the legislators should pay particular attention to the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of the national minorities represented here, and would not explain it on behalf of the Club of National Minorities. Fourthly, Article 29(3) should also state elections for the councils and representatives of national minorities because it is a newspaper under the Constitutional Law and it is not mentioned but only parliamentary. The parliamentary choice is and normally now we have councils and representatives of national minorities, and then it should also be stated in the law. The fifth, Article 39(1) speaks of voting certificates for those who are not included in the list of voters on the day of the election. People come to the polls, and now for whatever reason, he's gone. I ask the promoter to explain to us what this means for members of the national minority who, on the day of the election, determines that he is not listed in the list of voters for national minorities. So whether it's parliamentary elections. Whether it's a local self-government election for councils and representatives of national minorities. Because it can be there, it can be a little bit more sensitive. That's not what it is. I came as a citizen to the polls and I'm gone. And now I go to that Department of State and I say, "Listen to me, I'm not there. Then he gets that form, signs and goes back to the polls. But this is now about a declaration of belonging to the national minority. How do you solve that? I ask the answer to that question because it is important for us now because we will have national minorities, especially with them we will have such cases that someone will want to, and now the question is how will it be regulated and how will it be resolved? Sixth. The list of voters of 5 years is set out in Article 40. So the body he's been guarding is whether he's been guarding them for five years. It's okay. But what about the insight of the candidates in the election on that list for any complaints, establishing irregularities, dead souls, and I don't know what can't be? Or analysis, we are political people, political parties, independent candidates passed the election or failed the election. We just want to see that list of voters and I think it's convenient to say something about this place in which way you can? Because it doesn't go to the State Archives election records, so after a while, you can see the rest of the paperwork there by the rules of the archival service. This is about lists of voters who are hot material and who are particularly current first, second and third days after the election, and 5 years are kept with this body that otherwise keeps the electoral lists of voters. Seven. The words "can" and similar words should be avoided wherever possible. I can't get out anywhere. There is, in law, a place where the word "can" must be, but there are places where it doesn't, like Mr. Gajica and some others here said it shouldn't stand the word "can". Where it should be said that it must either be arranged or said in a more defined way better than the word can be said. We know you can and behind the word can stand a word you can't, can't you, don't I give it to you and so on. Eight, and finally what we find very important for achieving constitutional law is the source of authentic representatives of national minorities in the Assembly and local, minority self-government. All the predecessors talked about it, and that's the issue of getting out of the national minority voter list. But we also join what Mrs Pesic said about the general voter list. We believe that because of the specificity of the election of representatives of national minorities where all of Croatia is one electoral unit when it comes to the Assembly or when it comes to councils and representatives at local level, not all local centres of councils and representatives are elected, but where there are a number of minority members, but they are concerned. Members of national minorities in our case, as Croatia is an entire electoral unit are scattered from Ilock to Dubrovnik. It's relatively easier where we have compact national minorities, where, say, 90% of the population of a village, settlements, parts of the city are members of a minority. But we have 22 national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, most of which are scattered, so you have 2 Germans in Ilock, you have 5 Germans in Dubrovnik, you have 10 Germans in Split, etc. So not everyone in Osijek or all of them in Vukovar. And now the question arises that, in order for candidates to get prints, so that they can address these people, it is not only a question of candidate rights or the benefits of candidates to see who they are, but it is also the right of those members of the national minorities to get the presentation of their candidates and that they are animated to go to elections right now for representatives of national minorities, and that no one will ever question that these people can say thank you nicely, I want to choose my political party and I am not interested in minority elections or I won't go to elections at all, don't bother me, leave me alone, etc. But this print-out with the name and last name and address of the residence, so what we mentioned should be that none of my predecessors questioned only with certain caution, with one determined to see how much it would affect the personality, protected data, etc. And until the second reading and decision-making, and with the legislator, let's clear each other up and then get something that's the rule of conduct in the election. Either it's a print-off or it's not a print-off with me thinking that we don't need any of these, from this secrecy of data, data protection we don't need to make sacred cows because we have a whole series of situations where minority members are just expressing their declaration I'm the one and that member of the national minority in order to get an advantage under the same conditions in the state administration when it comes to business, when it comes to scholarships, when it comes to schooling, when it comes to positive discrimination in enrolment in colleges because we have someone who doesn't know we have a 15 percent bonus compared to that electoral threshold, etc. But a man has to say I'm a Serb, I'm a German, I'm this, I'm what I am in order that under the existing laws, our laws, he would exercise some right. So if we have this situation that in a whole series of conditions, man says he is, so why don't we let him know that, why don't we make it possible for the election and then he knows that he can choose and he has a candidate, and he knows that he can address him directly. We believe that, on the occasion of the law, it should be such a formula that what I just said could be realised, that the lists of voters should be made public, that the right to see the lists of voters is achieved without any special notice, with all those precautions, responsibilities, statements of preservation, etc., abuse, anti-abuse, etc. and that participants in certain sources can obtain from presidential candidates in elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia independent candidates and holders of lists at all levels of government and self-government and the organisers of the referendum at the request of a copy of the list of voters for the level of elections at which they participate either in electronic or in this copy. This proposal can normally be referred to by this complaint of intrusion into protected personal data. At this point, however, we do not see this danger because minority members have, above all, already in the census, declared their own free will as members of the national minority when updating the voter lists. So they don't hide what's by nationality either. And when I associate that with this whole series of benefits that minority members achieve when they seek some of their rights in relation to the majority of the people, then we come to the fact that we can sit down and talk about how to get some reasonable insight, to the output, and to see which, which national minorities, and then can be used. And I repeat that no one can prevent members of the national minority if we do what I'm saying he says I won't use my national minority rights. Therefore, I want to choose my political option, and thank you very much I am in my soul German, but I want to be a political Croat and vote for Croatian political parties in Croatia. And in the end, that relative to this story of indulging, etc. I think this law on polling lists is lex specialis, and lex specialis always has one advantage over some laws that are general and should be taken into account when we talk about all this. And I say in the end that it's the first reading. We expect from the promoters, but also from all colleagues and colleagues a correct and reasoned debate, which so far has been absolutely an exchange of views in order to and from the point of view of the rights of national minorities to obtain a quality law on voter lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82854	Thank you very much. For the HSS Club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82855	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words about the bill on voter lists on behalf of the HSS club. This is because this is the first reading of this law and that it wants to edit the list of voters in a different, more modern way the HSS Club will support this bill in the first reading. Since he's also our secretary of state and the whole crew around him has been in the state administration for a long time then I believe they're from that work of theirs in these... For 15 years, if not more, they had the opportunity to pass several choices where they could always hear certain remarks on the voters' lists and wanted to change this by proposing legislation that there is no constant pressure on certain lists and make that list as accurate and precise as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we go back, here's how attached I am to those '93 voters lists. years back then, we had situations in different parts of the country that were doing that list in different ways. First we had general administration offices that were in the county, which had a certain list. But there it seems to me that it was for the '95 elections. We've been instructed to use data from the police. These data were quite incorrect and as such could not be updated in a short time. Later, '97. For local elections, it was already a better situation and we had more accurate data. But later there for 2000 for the election was even better. I believe it is today, that it will be far more accurate. But what's still going on? It's still happening to us that we have a large number of people registered in one address, which is impossible for them to live in the same address, which means they live somewhere else and are only registered in one place. And I think you should take care that it can't happen. We know how many people can live in a family, how many families they can be. Not that everyone who has someone famous, cousin, should apply to him. Furthermore, there are still cases where dead souls are found on voters' lists and because there is no organised observation at all polling stations that happened and proved that there were also those who voted dead. As a result, we should certainly have a much greater awareness. And I believe that with this, uh, electronic control mode, we'll have more quality data for the next election. But what I miss about this bill is the criminal provisions. It just says what happens here if one of the employees from the general administration does something wrong, there'll be a violation of duty. But it's not written if there's nothing in the bill about what's going to happen if someone consciously commits a certain offense and allows it to happen. And I think we should also introduce criminal provisions. And so far, we've known all the laws we've received, at least from your office, that the criminal provisions were quite large, not to say drastic. So I suggest that for the second reading you also introduce penalties for those who commit certain violations related to this law in any procedure, whether in that section to allow someone to be at an address where they are not or anything else. With more and more recent years at certain elections, especially those for councils fourth or local self-government, we are one smaller percentage of the date. I admit that it often happens that 20 and some percent of people go to the polls. Then anyway, it's important that your data is very accurate. If these data were correct, maybe that percentage would be different, so it wouldn't be a fact that for some elections, it's a big one, and for others it's small. Obviously, something with voters' lists is wrong. Because about the same date is similar to going out, it's not common if I say so. Especially in this way and simply disable any manipulation with votes. And I think when we watch how it's done in some other countries, then we see that they have a previous voter registration. It might not be a bad idea to consider introducing the same previous voter registration, since we have made so much progress electronically and to know then who and how much he has applied for. And I especially think it's important to our minorities. Here's my colleague Mak. He spoke nicely about what minority representatives expect from this list of voters. And that you know exactly. And then the process of change when someone wants to vote for a list or wants to participate in a minority list. Because I know from my experience that our minorities often see that, let's just say for my colleague Mak, I think it took a very small number of votes to get into Parliament, while, say, my colleague Zdenka needed far more votes for the same mandate, right. Therefore, people would rather not have to, anyway and so will their entry and vote for their political options, which they like. So in that part, the same should be possible, perhaps not only for those who, our people living outside the previous registration but also in due course, we will probably get to have one previous voter registration before that. I wouldn't point out any other objections in particular. Since it's already on behalf of the clubs it's been said quite a bit. And I support all these suggestions that have been made. And I believe that for a second reading, given the experience that the whole team has there so that this law could still be improved a little bit and that in the second reading we get it with one bigger consensus, and that would mean that we'd have both better quality and better data. In the end, I would conclude that the HSS Club supports this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82856	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. Allow me in a few sentences to refer to the bill on voter lists. In fact, the Law on Lists of Voters should ensure that the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament says so in Article 3 of the Law, including the duty to vote only once. It is a requirement for this law to be reduced to the minimum possible extent of abuse of electoral rights. Is that so? It's not. Namely, this bill says that the foundation, the legal basis for listing citizens and adulthood, and the fact that it is a residence, is neither a residence nor a residence. A place to stay and a place to stay. Why? What is not disputed, namely those who live in the Republic of Croatia and are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we do not need to discuss it, it is the full responsibility of the State Administration or the Central Office to be accurate, up-to-date and accessible to citizens for verification. And right away, it is not acceptable for the list of voters to be conducted only in virtual form because the education of the Croatian electorate body is not such that it can control the list of voters only if it is only run in it. It would be a serious grudge in the legitimacy of the voter list, and even more in the election. Why do I claim that the list of voters is conducted on two, on two basiss, so by residence and by residence although the residence is defined by nothing at all. So already here a colleague... said that voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia are enrolled in the central census of voters of the City of Zagreb, now look and the list is being kept by countries where they are now staying. So it's actually a list based on residence. In fact, it's a residence-based list. But to make it even more absurd. So this list would be like the states, doing what it says here, while at the same time the list of voters of voters is being led in Croatia, no obstacle would be malicious or abused that a man from Hungary who has the right to vote on the list of voters because he went there to his residence, returns the same day and votes here where he is registered, and must be included in the list of voters according to the principle of residence. And then we bring not only legitimacy and legality or abuse of electoral rights but we also bring the reputation of government in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think it's very important to determine what the basis for enrolling the voters list is. What's the foundation? Is it therefore citizenship, adulthood and residence? If it is both a place of residence and a place of residence, manipulation is guaranteed. The problem is serious, and the state must guarantee that this must not be a problem, that the Croatian electoral body has two corpuses, one is inside the country and the other is out of the country. One that is not precisely listed in the list of voters is 500 thousand voters, or voters according to the data that the government has provided here. In other words more than 10% of the electoral body according to what the secretary of state here said in one address to the Croatian Parliament, it cannot be controlled by the Republic of Croatia because there are no signed interstate agreements that the state where our citizens are resident as it says, has provided it neatly with that list of voters. That's possible. In this way, an interstate agreement can be concluded. That is why it is really important to decide what is the basis for enrollment in the voter lists until the second reading. Is the voter's list just state records or is it public records? This Article 3 of this Act does not resolve. He says it's state records, and I think it's public records, and it's the state's answer to accuracy. Then we have a vague formulation. The competent authorities which issued the travel documents. Is there only a passport or a ticket that can be used under the travel document? There is an official name for documents if it is a passport, and here it should be said that it is a passport. Or Article 9. It's completely unclear to me because, let's just say for the data, they're the same, and the languages know that the pronoun: "isn't" doesn't exist. There are many more such examples, but now I would only be entitled to an insight and objection to voter registration. The point is to list voters and that those who are interested in their correctness, truthfulness and awareness that they can exercise insight, but that they may object if they find it incorrect, incorrect and illegal... It is important that those participating in the election process be sure that there will be no drastic change in the list of voters in recent days because there is no reason to do so. [[You don't understand.]] There is no reason, of course, to allow daily migration to be included in the list of voters in accordance with the law but not to be manipulated by the list of voters because it can be called on to move to another place as planned. All in all, Croatia needs a law and a new list of voters, and I hope that in the common interest it will be undeniable, precise, legal and all available list of voters, established before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82858	Thank you. The respected representative, Vladimir, has previously been a replicated representative of Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82859	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in my opinion, my colleague, Leko, you pointed out exactly the problem of residence and residence. That's the other word again, the possibility of a double vote. So in the same day, one person can vote at his residence and at his residence. Therefore, this is certainly for another reading of one of those questions that should be very well defined and I fully agree with you that we must finally resolve residence and residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82860	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82861	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Already, the fact that the existing, applicable Law on Lists of Voters was passed in March 92 indicates that changes are needed. From great, huge progress, technical opportunities to conduct such a process to know what we are sure I've all convinced of the great shortcomings, failures, irregularities, irregularities and whatnot, existing lists of voters. A lot is unfortunately inherited and cannot be denied that there is also the irresponsibility of one number of citizens in relation to the voter list obligations, and on the other hand, the hands of the departments who run those lists when it comes to certain problems. The remarks were usually made after the election, the statements were on the list of voters residing abroad, and they were always suspected of something, as it was already to whom and why it was responding. There is no better situation in the list of voters residing in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, far greater numbers than the one mentioned abroad. In some areas, the condition of these lists has led to absurdities in every respect and allow me only one example. The town of Vukovar, according to the 2001 census, counted 31 thousand 500, which hundreds up or down. The list of voters for the City of Vukovar includes 33 thousand 500 names and last names, of course. According to some statistics, the number of people and the number of voters is about 13,000 or 63%. For one of those about 13 grand from my immediate neighborhood, I know he moved away back in 1965. The calls came in neatly a few years ago. And so that there may be no confusion, the same mess is evenly distributed in both the minority lists and the majority people, therefore, in all categories. This Law must resolve this, and we find it in Article 1 where this Law stands, where it states that the registration procedure, corrections and erasures and verifications of them are to be established. Article 5 states that the lists of voters of state administration authorities in the counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb, responsible for the affairs of the general administration. The list of voters remains in Article 6 in electronic form of unique content in all cities and municipalities. However, there is no provision here for keeping a central record for the Republic of Croatia except for those who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, Article 5(2). Article 7 provides for the content of the list of voters and that is a sufficient number of data. And then why don't you take advantage of it and form a central record? He can only help. Now we come to think of the key article, Article 8. The list of voters shall be entered in the list on the basis of which the data and from which the records are recorded. Paragraph 2 of Article 8 requires the police administration or the station which keeps records of the residence of the data supply immediately on, and is now listed, among other things, to report and log out the residence. That's how it's supposed to be. However, I am now going back to that information that I cited about about 13,000 overnumbered in the list of voters for the City of Vukovar. Who, shall I say, write them down, write them out of the list? The assumption is that they're either somewhere else on the list or they're not anywhere. Again for their own known reasons. They may have, they may not have even checked out the residence or they did it x years ago and the police couldn't ask for a printout from the voter's list. How can the police know now or know whether they are or not on the voter's list? To point out, it is old cases, the new ones have been solved, and some of Article 8 and nothing is disputed. There may be a solution with another source of data, another record that is not mentioned in this Bill proposal. It's a census. I know, the answer will probably be, the census is every 10 years. Yes, but he's giving us answers in the central record of who's who and at what time. Given the, I repeat, too many irregularities in existing voters' lists of great help would also be data from the census. After all, the census is in four years, so if it doesn't work out in those four years, or if it doesn't work out, God forbid, the voters' lists are arranged, here's a new opportunity to check. Article 11 of the proposed Law does not give the possibility to delete from the list of all those who are objectively not there. All the measures provided for in this Act are also applicable to responsible citizens, when it comes to voter lists, and what about those others. Any shortcomings in the list of voters cause suspicion and suspicion even though these shortcomings do not have to or cannot affect the results of the election. For the sake of a clean conscience, clean lists have to be arranged. I'm going back to that information from Vukovar. 31 thousand and 500 residents and 33 thousand 500 on the list of voters and excess of, come on, about 13 thousand on that list. So there really should be about 20 thousand 500 on the voters list. Suppose there were 15 thousand voters in the election, which was somehow realized in all these years. That's 73% relative to the real number, but that's only 45% compared to the number in the list. Those elections are being watched by someone or some of them, someone or some of them are writing and sending out reports about these elections, and then you get an assessment of the voters' non-democratic consciousness, soaking up elections, making up reasons for a low response, not thinking about the simplest solution, that these people, these voters just don't live there, they don't exist. So if you want to go to the polling station, they're either on a much smaller page, and if the calls that could be heard today, the cost of the post office would be smaller. This is the first reading of the proposed law. If it doesn't last long until the second reading and we adopt it with all or acceptable remarks, I am afraid that the job of taking care of the voter list will be finished, that the list will be completed, that it can be completed by the parliamentary elections at all. It is up to this House of Commons to pass the Law, and then as set out in Article 42. The proposal by the competent authorities authorised to carry out certain actions under this Act states "of certain actions", therefore the error has to be corrected, is responsible for the timely execution of obligations in accordance with the deadlines laid down, and the non-execution of the prescribed actions is considered to be a serious violation of the official duty. That's what we should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82862	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82863	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's to what I've been saying before, dear colleague Stengl, if I understand correctly, you said that some people living outside their place of residence for many years may not be reported, or are not on the list of voters or at the place of residence, or at the place where they live for many years. It's possible to happen. In such circumstances, there may be a solution that these things do not happen, and there is a solution for these people to report whether they are at the place of residence or at the place of residence and will, in any case, come to their constitutional right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82864	Replication response, distinguished representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82865	These others are procedures, those others have just led to it, and the police so far have not been able to implement it in any way from their records in the voters' list. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82866	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82867	... Hey, buddy, I'm on my way. I'm doing an experiment on whether or not I can say something that's important in three minutes because tomorrow I'm proposing changes to some Rules of Procedure. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] So I think that a great deal of trouble has been made, and that is why it is responsible personally to think that Mato Arlović has been abolished a unique home number of citizens, it is one of the intellectual innovations of Croatian brains and a great number of troubles stems from that magical number that exists in other modern countries and should be considered. As for the list of voters, I support in the first reading of this Law. I think everyone should be of interest to have clear lists of voters and with that in connection with me at the final stage, so I invite colleagues to join me in preparing the Deadly Law. That's what I call colaquirially and I have actually prepared the Law on the Central Register of Dead Persons because in Croatia today the main problem is that not only does not only know who should vote, but who is dead. So are the banks, and not only are people, and very few people vote, and then NGOs, above all, gong is making international scandals that two people are dead from Herzegovina or I don't know where they voted from. It's a much bigger problem, so we in real time according to this model of the Law on the Central Register of Dead Persons will have an insight into who's alive, who's dead, and I think that combined with this Law will give very good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82868	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82869	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates and colleagues and colleagues. Here in a few short lines I'd like to refer to the proposal for this law that we're discussing today. In fact, the very fact that the existing Law has actually been in force for 15 years speaks enough to support the need to pass a new Law. After all, we all know how often, i.e. in the minority of each election, observations are made on the inaccuracies of the existing voter lists. So is the city I come from, my Makarska has actually become a synonym for lists of voters who contain more registered citizens than we have on our last census. So it's not only that these voter lists show that there are no minors in Makarska at all, but we have more residents than they really live in my city. It is known that so many people have been reported in one address that we rightly have to ask ourselves how they physically live in that space. For this reason, I believe that one of the key issues that this Law should address is precisely that, in the future, such and similar manipulations and evictions of the truthfulness of the data are impossible. However, I must admit that by reading this bill, I have found no solution to this problem, i.e. it seems to me that this Law will not change anything significant and that it will continue to be questionable about the truthfulness of the data contained in the list of voters. Namely, the way you log in to the voters list will still be the same. The registration will be made on the basis of data from citizenship records, travel documents and residence records, based on data from the police administration and the home office. Commission for the List of Voters pursuant to Article 33 The bill checks the truthfulness, i.e. the correctness of the list of voters. Now I wonder how the Committee will verify this and determine whether the data entered in the list of voters is correct? And according to the current law, the correctness of the list of voters was entrusted by the Commission, i.e. the Commission for the List of Voters, as it is called under the still applicable Law, but the fact remains that despite these checks, situations have taken place that people who don't actually live there have been reported to one address. How this problem solves this bill does not provide an answer. One of the key newspapers proposed by this Act is the keeping of a list of voters in electronic form. It is certain that such a way of keeping the list of voters will improve the awareness and facilitate the transparency of the data entered. However, what are we going to get if we transfer existing data in the voter lists into electronic form, and I have already said that part of the existing data is not correct and does not correspond to the real state? So we're going to get that now we're going to have incorrect data instead of on the paper on the computer screen. I therefore believe that, before moving into this process of informing the voters list, first of all, we should verify all existing data in detail, correct established irregularities and inaccuracies and only then transfer the updated data into electronic form because otherwise we will have existing inaccuracies still in a different form, and I do not think that this should be the result that will be achieved by this Act when it enters into force. In Article 4, I think there are some indiscretions, and that is what my colleagues before me have already spoken about. Namely, that's that disputed provision. Voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia are registered in the central register of voters of the City of Zagreb by countries where they have their residence records abroad. So, two specifics are actually being chased means residence and residence. If they have no residence in the Republic of Croatia, then where do they have it? They must have it somewhere, for the dwelling and the dwelling is not the same. And that's exactly the kind of banishment that two concepts can lead to actually unwanted malversions and different inaccuracies. For the purposes of Article 13(1), the following shall be added: Each citizen has the right to review his entry in the list of voters, ask for his addition or correction throughout the year and at the time of the elections scheduled no later than 14 days before the day specified for holding the elections. In addition, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance As soon as the time limit referred to in Article 13(1) of this Act has expired, the competent authority leading the list of voters shall access the voter list to be concluded. A locking and ban application for any further entries of any data shall be activated prior to listing of voters in the information database. Now I wonder what will happen to those citizens, such cases in practice will surely be, which will become adult in those 14 days, meaning from the conclusion and conclusion of the voter list to the day of elections. How will they exercise their electoral right that belongs to them under the Constitution? This bill does not show how cases like this will be solved and they are actually possible. And finally another remark. In some articles, the Proposer uses the words "can." For example, Article 9 can be entered, so Article 16 can be done, then it can be given numerical data, Article 35 can be added, etc., so as not to list further. I don't think it's questionable to use the word "can" in legal regulations because the word can mean that something can but also doesn't have to or shouldn't be done. In the legal provisions, the statement should be clear and should not place dilemmas and possibilities of dual interpretation. It should be clearly indicated that the obligation of the competent authority which will then be borne and the responsibility for the possible non-execution of the obligation and the words may certainly not be in office and therefore should not be used in writing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82870	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Martic, I'm glad that's exactly what we're thinking the same way. So we have to distinguish the residence completely from the residence so that we do not have one person voting in the place of residence and in the place of residence on that same day. And I think you're okay with this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82872	Replicate response, respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82873	So I think it's clear and that it's safe to say that since more colleagues have talked about this problem until the second reading and considered it and it's correct because it's really not clear if a person doesn't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and has a place out there then there's really a question of where his residence is and where he's eventually going to vote. Is it where his residence is, or where his residence is, or on one and the other? Because he has to have a place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82874	Thank you. Excuse me, it was a correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, and with my apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82875	Mr. President, my colleague! This law also provided for those who will be entitled to vote 14 days before the election date of Article 39 of the proposed law, the Croatian citizens who have the right to vote and are not included in the statements of completed and confirmed lists of voters submitted to the polling stations may, on the day of the election, prove the right to vote by confirming the competent authority leading the list of voters in the further text of the voting certificates, etc., the competent authority which has made a new entry in the list of voters after the vote is concluded, shall record the list of voters by giving written consent to issue a certificate for voting on a specific diplomatic mission or consular office, etc., Article 39(1), (2), (3) and (4) and (5).
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82876	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82877	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will discuss the bill on the voters' census with a little more confidence in voters or all those who have the right to vote or all those who have turned 18 and who will turn 18 at the very day of the election. I always come from every man and his responsibility for everything, so I am going from both voters and each individual and his responsibility to this law, or what every man has and with responsibility so far, this has happened in the Republic of Croatia in all 10 electoral units and in 11 constituencies other than small mistakes. So this existing law since 1992 has not changed, i.e. according to the time and possibilities of the voters' lists has been guided manually and today thanks to God's proposal for this law and information, voters' lists will be conducted in electronic form, which is for sure what we all want to do today, which is exactly what you fellow MPs with suspicion approach to each individual or all voters in the Republic of Croatia who have the right to vote. One mistake cannot certainly describe all the good or several mistakes that occurred from 1990 in the first multiparty elections, or 1992 to the day of today. Surely and this by this law and these small doubts will be removed and I hope that no more what is attributed to all errors of 11 to the electoral unit will happen, there have also been in all election units in the country but it seems 11 electoral units is a thorn in the eye of many, either because of the result or because of the relationship with these people. It's not that important to me, it's important to me that in the polling stations outside the country in all cases, except in some cases that have not been proven, there have been objections. However, I remember well in 1992 when foreign journalists praised state representations, diplomatic consular representations, as well as well organised election stations in polling stations. I think it would be normal for each election post to be passed on that day of election between 800 and 1,000 people and more than 10,000 people are expected outside the country in the polling stations. If in one election seat in one general consulate I will give a living example of the election day, thank God now there are two days so it is less possibilities and mistakes and it is easier and better to organise electoral sites, Saturdays and Sundays, followed by foreign observers and every organiser, or representative of the Republic of Croatia, than the Ambassador, the General Consul or member of the electoral board, is intended to vote, that the day of the election runs at the highest level. I have and always says who boasts that the corrupt foreign journalists were more in and one polling place in the Republic of Croatia. We got commendation from the police, we got commendation from the city, we got commendation from the Red Cross, we got commendation from... We were commended and asked how it was possible for several thousand people to organise such a good electoral place without turning out waiting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People have waited and waited and waited today, and they will wait and wait for the future because they are responsible for their homeland. This also requires the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for several hours. From three to ten and a half hours. You remember well, gentlemen, when Croatian television showed at 19:00 in election places outside the country, there are several thousand more people waiting, while here it happens casually in our electoral venues in the Republic of Croatia. Come, round your voice nicely, meet your friends and go to the bar without waiting eight, ten or more hours. However, this law will certainly remove that doubt, if it did not happen, is not good because it is also the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. However, I will look back on Articles 16 and 15 mentioned here several times today. The previous registration of voters abroad and Article 15 and Article 16 contributes to something that will be quite simple when the State Election Commission sends its rules to our decapitators and that the list of voters will already be completed after this law, or eight days after the entry into force of this law. So all the time our decapes will have time outside the country to inform our people that they can sign up for a list of voters, when, where and how. Normally, today is here and several times said what a stay is and what a residence it is. The suspicion of what this means is a residence, which means a residence outside the home country, and doubts that by chance someone from Pećeh will come once again into the area on this side of the border that I don't keep mentioning Herzegovina or Imotski or Hercegovina or Makarska and that they will head a few hundred miles and cast a voice. I don't accept that that's good. These are small details, and with this law when it becomes regulated and when it begins to work with responsibility we must receive it according to, or send it to people who are no less responsible than the MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It will also happen in the future not only in the 11th electoral unit, but also in the country on the voters list. Someone will gain the right to vote in those 14 days from the day of their elections, or for legitimate reasons, is not listed in the list of voters, and this allows them to do so in Article 39 of the proposed law. In addition to the announcements we have already made on the Committee of this Law on the list of voters until the second reading, it is certain that it will crystallise some of the mistrusts that have been made here today and with this law we will contribute to the elections in the Republic of Croatia and beyond to organise and maintain themselves at a large level as the Republic of Croatia has earned it without the OSCE's assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82878	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82879	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Babic-Petrichevic said about this. One mistake or several errors cannot be attributed to all cases, and then she told her colleagues to suspect each individual and this law will solve these problems. It's not about one or several mistakes, it's about a lot of gaps that have been minored so far in every election they've been talking about. Because then how do you explain if it's one or several mistakes how to explain that in the list of voters of some cities, I'm not going to just mention Makarska. Here's a colleague of Stengl's talking about these problems in his neighborhood. It means that we have more voters or more people enrolled than we actually have real residents of a city. And it's not one or two, but it's a few thousand of those listed. And it's not about any doubt about each individual. We don't question anyone, but it's simply about our reality and what's been going on in practice. And what I said and in my debate this law will not solve this problem because the way I create a list of voters is practically no different from what was done so far, in the present creation of voter lists, and that is what I said that actually legislators should solve, or have a way that as much as possible would never be able to be as accurate and up-to-date as possible, but that as much as possible of these lists are updated and that these occurrences will be reduced as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82880	Thank you. A respected representative in response to the replica Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82881	Mr. President, my colleague. Since 1992, it has been easier to organise and implement elections since the election of voters each year, the electoral laws have been better based on these laws from the voter list to the electoral laws. And this law will help the relevant to make the list of voters as crystal clear as possible and as accurate as possible. That would be one thing. Secondly, here we are waiting for tonight's announcements by fellow Letica may be in our best interests for what you suspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82882	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82883	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is inconclusive that in every election, we find that we are getting smaller and smaller. That the inhabitants are getting smaller and the voters are getting more and more. ... And only when it's allowed will it contribute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But then it'll contribute to a healthier one, I guess, to this younger one. Who's going to joke aside? We still remember all the funny and tragic stories from a single poll in Bosnia and Herzegovina where one man says about his father that his father died 15 years ago but that he regularly comes to see that polling station to see his father who died 15 years ago and who probably happens every time they vote. But he didn't see it. But my father voted. Now, the objective and this bill of law I believe is precisely to eliminate such things. To eliminate all the imagination and creativity of individual potential voters and voters who are overly understanding their role. And the fact is irrefutable that although our Penal Code knows 5.6 crimes in the head of electoral fraud and electoral theft, no one has ever answered that. Although they are in certain places, certain polling stations have unquestionably been found to have been carried out but no one personally has, therefore, been proven but not by the perpetrator. Here's a decade ago when an election theft was established in Zadar and when a ship of sign name "Quick" sailed to the island of Preka and back for three days. But all right, ship, ship. [[Intruder: Broz.]] It's like your tail or tail. That looks contagious. So now this bill of law is just meant to be, it should be aimed, so it's presented to eliminate any such attempts. And it's true and it's so irrefutable that it's been back a few years, and it continues, that exactly the electronics system is pairing up, it's being eliminated by those people who are sometimes registered with a residence so that somewhere these same people don't appear as potential voters elsewhere. And I think with a few years back, the good part's been taken off and the good part's been arranged. To a significant extent, voters' lists or lists of voters have been improved. It was a painful list, it lasted long, but it produced some results. But obviously that's not enough. But the basic problem is not only whether voters' lists are neat but because it doesn't matter if someone is, it's very important, but it's not crucial to choose whether someone is listed as voters if they died, unless they're going to vote on someone, but it's a big challenge not to abuse someone. That's why we find that very interesting. But that means someone committed a crime. Now, how do you stop it? This Bill of Law, unless there are concrete amendments to the Law on residence and rigorous control, we will not achieve much. There are no sanctions for falsely reporting the residence. Or even wrongly, our competent authorities, police administrations, therefore, and who keep records of the residence, which is the police administration that essentially provides the residence records. Therefore, voters' lists and those who are in charge now and under this law to keep a list of voters are kept on the basis of the police administration's records. And the police administration, of course it's a busy job, but it's something that's already been done in all countries and that they don't have problems like this, but they control someone's place. Not only for the sake of choice but for all other rights; tax payments, different contributions and benefits, as well as the obligations it has, such as that which has a registered residence. Therefore, it is not in the will of a man, a citizen, to register his residence because he so wished. He'd be staying here because he might have, so they're ours once, so our bodies, especially police administrations, thought that there was enough for someone to own a house in some place and that it was already valid proof that he lived there. Well, he doesn't have to live here at all. So... A resident or someone who settled somewhere, so that's what we have a definition of, who settled somewhere with a permanent so not only this material or real meaning and that one legal fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a verifiable, precisely verifiable fact that someone actually resides there rather than an animus that he settled there with the intention of permanent residence. Except for those situations where he has to go to school, to the military, or to others, or when he is currently in another area because of sickness or some other living needs. But no one controls our residence. And that's why it's a difficult, exhausting task, but it should be given to police administrations to check the residences of citizens. Well, then that's basic, but one should start with that. Because all possible manipulations, I say not only because of the elections, maybe I say the least of the choices, but also what costs the state is a huge outflow of resources where people report their residence and don't live there. So the eclectic example is exactly where we found ourselves at a home address to say, I repeat, the people of the flat creatures couldn't stay in that house. How many were reported in one single address. That was a fact. Thus, such an example can, therefore, be set first from these eclative examples, and that the police administration is ultimately her duty. But that duty should be stated in a pronunciation. Maybe not now and in this law, we have another law that could handle it. And let us, in this way, help because this, our bill of law, is bound to such a law of residence. The famous case is publicly announced to a known spouse... An actor who, from America, from warm California, moved to the cold north of Europe, not because they prefer it, because they prefer to stay in that country cold and inappropriate to their life habits than they do there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that state controls exactly whether 6 months lived for 1 day in that country. And of course, in those countries that have a more regulated administration, it's easier to record these controversial situations than we do to catch ourselves, so no government has seriously dealt with this problem, but it needs to be dealt with together. There will then be more funds for fairer distributions and among people in spending the budget, I repeat on various benefits, benefits, benefits, health services and the like. Without it, it's all for nothing. Finally, this Bill of Law does not contain criminal provisions if someone is acting by an individual, and on his own under the authority of bodies which do not comply with this bill. There is almost no proposal for a law that does not have its own criminal provisions for the case, therefore, in the event that a certain body or individual does not act on them. And this so significant bill doesn't contain it. Well, here's what I suggest to supplement it in that sense. It is very important, therefore, that in this situation when we all need to make an increased effort to address such a situation, therefore, the records of the residence itself are to allow not only for every citizen to review his enrolment but to see, controls the records of others. It's no secret. To allow political parties to do so, to enable associations. And that's how they help the state itself control some people. We all know in our neighborhood who lives. We've all been to some funerals, and these people because they died in America, and they're not recorded in the queen of the dead. If, of course, the duty of the bodies who run the queens of the born, dead, married then and to do so is now and thus proposed in Article 8 to immediately inform the body leading the list of voters, then the team is obliged to do so for those who have turned 18. Because it persists in one small man, meaning when the first person approaches the polls to take care of him, to record him, and that he is already on the list rather than that first meeting as a full - age citizen meets one carelessness, it is also very important to do some education and to those young people and to their attitude towards the state, and then to return the state to such a small person. I therefore propose that this decision, in Article 8(4), be supplemented to record immediately, therefore, those persons who are 18 years old. And I think that this 14-day deadline when they're locked down, or those voter lists are kind of too wide, because today I'm living faster, my motion speed standards are higher than they were 10, 15, 20 years ago, and a lot of change and life and death can happen in those 14 days. Therefore, one deadline within 7 days would be quite appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82884	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82885	A bit sad, a general tone is somehow more doubtful of voters than of the chosen ones. My personal experience is that bigger con men are the ones to be chosen. Take it, don't, I'm not interrupting you. In the local elections 2 days before the election or 15 days people go, apply to Velika Gorica, Sisak, and everyone knows they live here. That's the first thing. The other thing about it means I personally think that the people of Croatia are much more honest, and part of that people are voters. That's the first thing. That big con men are usually chosen. And as far as fraud is concerned, I have absolute evidence that the biggest frauds are in invalid ballots. Because technology is the easiest thing to do here. When people who control break apart enough to round up one place. You have in my constituency alone I have 3,000 and 200 invalid ballots. There's no theoretical possibility with chips and SMSs to expose these con men. Therefore, I think that it is incorrect for voters and that unfortunate Croatian people to accuse on behalf of those who are chosen and who are bigger con men.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82886	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82887	Well, I don't think we should be here right now, in that sense, courting and thus collecting political points, because this is about a list of voters. And passive and active law is often tied up. So, one who wants to exercise his passive right, i.e. To be chosen and to choose, i.e. have and here to be registered in a certain place. And all these abuses are therefore experienced and happening before passivity, so even when an active right is exploited, i.e. Right voter. But that's exactly what I was talking about. Because of the abuse of those in charge of this control. And that all stems from the key problem that I've given the accent to, which is false reporting and false reporting of residences, either by those who choose or by those who choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82888	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82889	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is after a long and exhaustive debate which, in my opinion, was in favour of the adoption of this law or better regulation of the voter list, I will look only at a few of my important thesises now, and of course, for the second reading, then we will answer in detail what we have accepted, and we are not and for what reason. First of all, I'm condemning all the electoral fraud again. They didn't vote dead in the election. Someone has made an election fraud, it's for every conviction and some law enforcement bodies are taking steps to sanction such things because of general prevention and I think everyone will agree. Second, no double enrollment. It's a unique home number and technology and our intention and our will to solve this thing, there's no double enrolment. If someone has a residence in Croatia and a residence outside, he is enrolled in a residence in Croatia and cannot be registered in two places. That system doesn't allow. That's what we don't allow. And we've created such a system that won't allow it. I don't care about young people, yeah, that's our concern. That's why I call always before the youth election, and that's why we always resort to a trick or a trick or a prediction so that we know the choices are scheduled for Sunday 15th, and that's why the system tells us who's going to turn 18 in those 7 days and they're there, they're already inside. The problem is, someone can die. The problem is that life won't stop, because two days before the elections, let's say Sunday's elections, on Friday the Zagreb Police Administration will receive 50 people who will apply to Zagreb as new residents, and somewhere there. Then it will be dealt with by these systems as already resolved. Of course, the problem of the residence can't be solved by us in the office. We can't handle it with this law. I don't like to judge anyone, but in the residence law there was a condition that someone had to have an apartment or a residence contract, but the Constitutional Court suspended it. Because it says it's contrary to the right to freedom of movement. And now, someone comes, says maybe it's not a place, but in my apartment there's still a registered former apartment owner, I can't kick her out, I can't wipe her out. It may not really be the place to talk about it, but that's how it's gonna work out. It will resolve the Law on residence, the minister announced at this roundtable roundtable. That round table opened up from all aspects of this problem and there were a lot of people, I'm sorry not all came and many were invited. But here I thank all who have made useful suggestions, and we will install it because we do not have any reserves except for the personal data protection reserve. For us, protection of personal data is very important. We have asked the Personal Data Protection Commission to state what it would mean to give a list of voters in any form to someone who is not the body of the state government and we are waiting for an answer. We'll get it before the second reading. As for some shortcomings as regards what I said on the board about the list when a question of nationality is asked through a website or SMS, I gave the operator an order to do so in the future and who wants to check that they can check everyone for themselves. Well, thank you all once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82890	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. What's the score? With 84 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against the passed bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82893	Dear Mr. President, this is actually a proposal for conclusions and is for a chamber elite audience, and in this respect, it would be a little resentful for the government for making a brief opinion in which it announces that its views will be defended by Ana Lovrin who is not there, Snježana Bagic, who is not there and Boris Koketti who is not there. So it's unserious that it's claimed that something that's absurd that the government can't support these conclusions because the highest state level is agreed to go to changes in the law. Which is a higher state level, which I would like you, Mr. President of the Parliament, for the authority of this High House to explain to me, and in particular I will have a conversation with the minister who personally promised to come here and try to learn something, to see how the Second World War closes successfully and how dangerous it is to open it. Here is the position of Joseph Garret, a four-star general who was hired ten years ago to judge the security situation in Croatia and assessed the following: Unfortunately, the National Security Strategy in Croatia does not have a fully developed theory of statehood and that is what we lack, the theory and practice of statehood, and please move on. When I do this, you'll change. So these conclusions as we see them are made, we can go on, based on one strange coincidence. Look, there's one theory about the role of the case in history that shows, it says that when Hitler went after Munchen, he dropped a brick on his head to make history go in a completely different direction. So I was on the tennis court today and our president called me to come here and I was very glad, and I was on another tennis court when one of our men called me and when our Prime Minister and Schicl cruised the Adriatic and the man told me that they had agreed to come back, or make another restitution... Let's move on. [[You don't understand.]] So on the basis of what happened then, when I came to Zagreb immediately on 28 October 2005, I sent our esteemed president a proposal for four conclusions and we are going to remind two. I would ask Mr. President, since this PowerPoint would like to speed up these copies to be an integral part of the record if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82894	Perfect!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82895	So when it came into the box, it was her. E. Ivica Mastruko took a copy of my conclusions to the Office of the President of the Republic, tomorrow already the President of the Republic looked back and attacked Prime Minister Sanader about how he wanted to do something that was contrary to Croatian contemporary history and then the weeks of "Globus" published a confabulation titled "Letica Save Sanader", mainly turns out that I had arranged all this as some Trojan horse in agreement with the President of the Parliament and Prime Minister. I can both testify that's not the case. Now we're going back to see what the sources of evil are, and before you see it, there was a reaction of popular media, and there Felix made a very handsome cartoon showing three bears in the winter dream, and this one says, that Fox deute claims we're sleeping in his Second World War bunker. After that, we go to the sources of evil. When did evil happen? In 2002, the provisions of the Law on this severance of property were abolished and the exception was made in relation to Croatian non-citizens and those who failed to report their claim for return of property. We're going to the 2002 exception I'm going to read very carefully. It also says that the right to repossess property has been granted by previous owners who have already been compensated on the basis of existing international agreements. The former owner does not have the right to compensation, that is, Article 2 of the 2002 amendment and the addition of the Law in the event that the issue is settled by international agreements and there is now a catch, the exception from paragraph 1 of this article may apply if bilateral agreements try or manage to resolve it. There is an open one of Pandora's boxes where you will see each other now, we can pass through several of these slides in a hurry, who wants everything from Croatia. This is Finny, and again Finny, Giovanni says fellow Radin that they are no longer in power. But these were serious states whether he was in power or not, their foreign policy remains very much. So there's Mr. Odoneli, that's one special ambassador to the Holocaust issue within the U.S. and there's our friend, the great Schussel. Let's move on. That is, the demands of the Israeli government and now we return to closing II. World War I. I don't think he's long been shown in the High House by former communist dictator Josip Broz Tito, who successfully shut down II. World war. No, he had an interesting solution to the issue of his own family property so that his heirs had a fight over the property, but he closed a fantastic war. I've singled out a few, if anyone's interested I have absolute complete documentation and I'm not going to put it on the ministry's disposition because they're rude and they didn't come to listen and defend their views. So this is the first part of the law that applies to the Italians. Let's go, show the Italians. I was particularly pleased that they had lost all ownership in the former Yugoslavia, and then at the next slide, Austria gave up all requests for allies to recognise their country. So we solved the Hungarian minority issue. Let's move on. We've got the Hungarians. So we've solved the Germans, and the Germans have legally banned anyone from seeking anything on behalf of Germany because the Germans want to close the war, they won't open that question. It's psychologically very hard. We are now going to this quantitative slide that shows how Joseph Broz Tito relatively successfully and cheaply solved the issue. The damages the SFRY had to pay were $17 million in America, Austria gave up, Germany gave up. Then she then paid for the first tranche of the reparation. We paid the French 15 million dollars, they were cheap. Greece only $700,000, Denmark $26,000 and $500, Switzerland 25 million francs, the Netherlands 655 million. Let's move on. And then a cunning communist dictator found himself on Brijuni with Willie Brant in a closed space and asked him for war reparations of 3 billion credit marks for 30 years and 5 years. He gave him a billion and a half marks on a 30-year payout. And now we return to the danger of such secret negotiations on yachts. Because if the issue opens, then we will find ourselves in front of one situation so that different parties interested in another restitution that can be estimated at 5 billion euros. It is particularly dangerous, we go on, because Croatia has stepped this very year, we go on, over the period, once again. We entered the period of absolute debt slavery, meaning from this year on credit, interest on the loans we took abroad exceeded the growth of social gross product, and this is an assessment made on the basis of the request of the President of the Republic, which shows that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia will increase to 36 billion euros by 2009. It's about 27 thousand euros per three-member household. What I have suggested, and I will now read the conclusions to show that the government's position that it will propose a law that I very welcome is not contrary to my conclusions. The first conclusion is: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report, within 60 days, all initiatives publicly presented or diplomatic means and channels, expressed by foreign states, state officials, government, state and non-governmental organisations for the return, restitution or compensation of assets taken from foreign nationals in the process of persecution before the repression, and confiscation and nationalisation of 40."Mr. Mack said well, perhaps from 41 to 56. That's another conclusion. "The government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to present to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament within 60 days the full strategy of the legislative international legal, civil and diplomatic resolution and handling of the requirements set out in this point." It's the third conclusion. "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deposit the special account of some of the Italian banks without delay within 30 days without delay," thank God there are also in Croatia, "an amount of $35m", for which I fought in the first budget. It was the only amendment that came through that year, but the government, as I did on several occasions, that I had agreed with her, deceived me. They didn't pay a man to build a road to St. Gera, nor did they single out that money. And the final conclusion. "The government of the Republic of Croatia must not initial or sign any new international restitution or compensation agreement in accordance with the existing law without prior notice, debate and decision of the Croatian Parliament on the appropriate negotiating team." The people who negotiate are very dangerous, I assure you. I have such great documentation that you can be sure. And the last slide and I'm done with it. It's Felix again, it's a beautiful very funny observation. I gave her the title "some happy secret agreements", and Felix says, "I'm happy to join the European Union, I'm happy to join NATO, I'm happy about foreign loans, and I'm happy about the pre-election year". And he says, "every fool has his own joy." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82896	Thank you very much. National Minority Representatives Club. Honorable representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82897	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Letica. And the National Minorities Club and I personally have some special interests to engage in constructive ways in this debate. This is about private property, not government property. This is, in my opinion, a very complex, very comprehensive proposal for conclusions that would be a guideline to our government in resolving all these future issues arising from that conclusion. I'd say that my colleague Letica here found himself in the pond, and that's a fellow Letica in one of the most beautiful ways I'm telling you that you're a pike in the pond. Because you need to be careful about these issues, you need to have frameworks, you need to have limits in what can be done, what can't be done. We also speak here on behalf of the Club of National Minorities because it has been kidnapped in this country, in the former state of Yugoslavia, but today in the territory of Croatia and Hungary and the Germans and many other Bosniaks, etc., Croatian citizens who have been using the provisions of this 1966 Act have partly embarked on a return or compensation process, etc. Therefore, it is also there when we speak specifically today about this proposal of conclusions, and not only about the essence of the things that these conclusions relate to, I would like to highlight that ancient maxie "has been kidnapped" and no one in history has ever been happy to be kidnapped. It always came back to evil one way or another. And when we talk here about private property, with respect for all international contracts, agreements, statements and arrangements that have been made normally that this should be strictly applied and not debated today in 2007 whether these are valid, not valid, good or bad. They were concluded in their time and they were involved in what fellow Letica had pointed out in several places with his conclusions. But I also stress that this is about kidnapped property, that it is about private, not state, reparation and other property, so that in further proceedings that the Republic of Croatia will have to implement in one way or another to take care of it. I'd just like to remind you that when it comes to kidnapped property that then it's very good that fellow Letica mentioned not '40, but '41. By '45. A year. If the government at any time and any government accepts that I need both Jews and Serbs and others who have been taken away from the property since '41. By '45. Then you should also change the name of the law because then it's not just communist, but then you should do it in some other name, but I absolutely think that if you ever seriously raise that question that you should then start from '41. And I think the last nationalization was '58, not '56. years, but now it's more of a technical matter to check that data than it matters now. But I think it's '41. and '58. years, that these limits were when private property was seized in various regimes without any human, legal or any other basis, but by the force of that authority. I'd like to say that the thing about closing Pandora's box is not opening Pandora's box. We should also discuss this proposal for a conclusion Mr Letice is not talking about not having to talk about it. None of his four conclusions talk about it. Therefore, I accept this well-intentioned that if you ever set out to go away from those conclusions and make sure that you need to talk, but you don't need to talk suddenly. I need this story of compensation, a return in a very reasonable time to end on exactly these principles that Mr Letica has made here to all of us, with me personally not being as resolute as he is with those 60 days here, 60 days there, but I don't think he will insist on it either, but he will insist that these principles and those clarifications are given within some reasonable deadlines and that both the Parliament and the Croatian public know what the Government intends to do with these things. I'd just like to say in the end that these apartments have been taken, that kidnapped country no matter what Croatian citizens, foreign citizens, former citizens have been sold here. Someone gave money for those apartments, for those houses, for that country, and those money's somewhere in this country, so to speak, deposited. Whether it's in Lucice's 2 or it's somewhere else, but they haven't taken those apartments from someone else. In communism it was, you got an apartment, a tenant right, but in this democratic Croatia a good move was made, the mortgage was decided that those who lived in those apartments were given the opportunity under very well-favourable conditions to buy it, and that's what people did, but those money was paid or are still being paid in the next, not now 20 years, but now it's about 15 years and more. Therefore, these money exists regardless of whether it is Croatian citizens to be returned or to others. Besides, that burden that's being said, I'm about objectivity, about the burden of returning, but it's about damages. He was assigned by law to 20 years with 40 wars and no foreign exchange clauses and with an estimate that the state authorities gave that apartment, that house, that country is worth so much and so much. Not market-based, and we come up with very funny situations in practice that the market value is 10 or 20 times higher than the state has assessed, but the state has assessed it and it is a fact, and it should be respected and, therefore, should be kept in that way of account. And here, let me cut it short and get it straight. I am for this approach to our esteemed colleague Letica, I am not for that strictness within those deadlines, in those guidances, etc., but the point remains that someone in our ranks has said one whole picture and given a full picture of what and how it should be done in the future. And we also have to keep an eye on the parliamentary representatives who are and whenever they are, when it comes to them, and the government, no matter who the government is, that we can't disappoint our friends in Austria, Germany, the United States, because they were the ones who made it possible for us to discuss it this way today. If it hadn't been for their support in '90, '91, '92, '95. etc. We would probably not be able to discuss these good conclusions proposed by our colleague Letica in this way today. I'm a German, I'm not German. I am the Croatian representative in this House, on the line of the national minority and defend Croatian interests and I think I will defend them in such a way that we speak truthfully, speak objectively and speak from the point of view was kidnapped. And let's sort it out in a way, and let's work it out on these principles that our colleague suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82898	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82899	Your Honor, Mr. President! I must correct my colleague Mak's false claim in good faith. He said that all tenant rights users in such houses or apartments have achieved one way or another right to purchase. One whole category, and that's what they're called. Protected tenants who have lived and had a tenant right in such facilities did not exercise the right to purchase, and I can tell you that they address me daily for the inability to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82900	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82901	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So I think when we talk about these issues, we should first achieve one political consensus, not that the Prime Minister is running his policy, the opposition is resisting him, the president of the country is running his policy, and then we have what, one forest, another road, the third one, I don't know who, but we all do damage to the Republic of Croatia together. To be honest with you, for perhaps a year, I thought that I would avoid harm, but today I am almost more confident than ever before that Croatia will suffer certain damage, we will not be able to escape entirely from the obligation of denationalisation although perhaps in some way we could have gone through with less damage. We will all agree that the return of property to foreigners, as Mr Letica says, and politically and civilizedly, I don't know, the economic, legal issue, is a legal matter of a couple of excellence because we have a decision of the Constitutional Court. The one who claims and was in this Parliament in 2002 that he did not know what it was voting for simply does not tell the truth as the Constitutional Court was aware of the consequences of its decision as well as the consequences of the decision to repay the debt to the pensioners. But what is certainly the point is respect for international contracts. These contracts have power over the law and only a crazy man could reduce it. However, I claim that today we are fortunate to be ex Yugoslavia from II. World War I came out as a winner and to paraphrase Mr. Letica, which we had Joseph Broz Tito who in 99% closed all property issues when it came to people leaving the ex-Yugoslavia area. I'm talking about 99% of these cases. Okay. It's always like that. International contracts mainly territorial property are broken on one, on the other and on those who remain and on those who leave but they always clearly have power over the law and that principle should be respected. He says, when I say it's a political issue, let's see what it came into being, say, on a domestic and international scene four and a half months ago. Italy reported to Croatia at the time, which is a minor problem because... the question, this will confirm to you and Furio Radin is mostly Croatian within the political question not Italian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the vast majority of Italian citizens hardly know the problem. Slovenia immediately reported, requested ratification of property relations with Croatia, US Jews remind him in the meantime, and visited him on those sidelines of the United Nations Conference and were quoted as saying "The Evening List" since 4.12.2005. "...promising to help them recover property etc." It is clear that the president's promise does not produce any effect, we said that it does not produce initial agreements either, but in some way they have some moral political or not knowing the weight. When I say that this is a question of civilization, then we will agree with Mr. Mak that every nationalization was also an injustice. Okay. In some cases, it may have been about ex propriety, the ex proscriptors as the communists spoke, and in the vast majority of people ordinary, the small people seemed to be a great injustice. They've worked their whole lives, they've created for themselves, for their children, at one point, they've just been left without everything in some refugee center, in another country. A new revolutionary government would drive their tenants out of the house, then move in. Here, let's look at Tuškanac, Pantovčak, about Istrian cities I won't even talk about. But I repeat. International contracts mainly resolved the ex-Yugoslavia issue of the property left behind. I'm going to quote Professor Simonetti... that it's gone far in the case of Austria. He says that in the case of Austria, it is all settled in 100% of cases. If something 100% is solved, then we have nothing to return. Not 120 million kunas in 20 years, as the government has spoken of for some time, nor 20 million kunas or 2 million kunas. I agree that the AVNOJ decision that determines collective guilt is not democratic. Finally, those who were not "servants of Nazism" paid the price of nationalisation, and so did many Italians. As not all Germans were Nazis, all Italians were not fascists. Here, yesterday in "The Morning List" or today Furio wrote a column or I don't know one reaction and says, "I'm from an Italian anti-fascist family and nobody was fascist." From Istria, the NoB River was attended by 24,000 Italians. Of that number of 24 thousand, Furio has corrected me 9 grand has laid down his life. That's the point. On the other hand, the exodus was of Bible proportion. For the first time on these numbers after IDS, right now, this material is also being discussed by Mr Letica. It is 186,000 people from the territory of the Republic of Croatia without Slovenia. 97,000 optants, 34 thousand children should be added to that number, a total of 131 thousand people from that "B" Bujština. After '54. 20,000 people escaped, another 30,000 people, 5,000 236 people were released from Yugoslav citizenship. That's the data of the SuZUP then. These are the data I think at the time of the leading Croatian demographic, Mr. Žerjavic, who gave perhaps the most accurate data on the actual victims in the "ex Yugoslavia" space during the second war. Sufferings in Jasenovac, the crossroad and so on. Now, while the optans have been solved, that's how the war-damaging damage to this leftover property of these 5,000 236 people who are presumed to have three thousand had no property solved. What problem this can cause on the other hand is seen from the numbers of those people who leave the area without even passing the option. That's Buje, 298 people have there. Buzet certainly isn't a problem, 143 people. Or Poreč 1115, Pula 1809, Rijeka 353, Zadar 650. A total of 5236 people. So many requests from Mr Letica to consider this agreement, the truth a few months ago, and I interpreted it as an attempt to take off the government's obligations in agreement with the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister. I see I was wrong. That such an agreement doesn't matter, but I'm sure this debate might help the government, too. Because the Prime Minister will say, "I lost a lot of money politically when I proposed damage to the "folk breast" and I don't know who. I lost on the home stage, but on the other hand, we may respect in the European Union because they come from the principle of sacredness of ownership on which the entire Western European structure rests. I thought it was the only logical explanation why we were discussing it, but here I hear it was a little different. So for the domestic scene, it's opportune to be against it. For the international maybe it's opportune for someone to be in. Finally, that denationalisation is also an economic issue. When I talk about it, then I don't think anyone has been given a mandate to take this country bankrupt. Is that 5 billion of this or that? I just don't know. These demands are difficult as Mr. Mak spoke of, 750 million kuna. Now I won't speculate with schools, with miles of water, sewers, retirement homes, but I'm sure if you go that way, there must be more. We on the other hand, to be honest, don't know what we're opening? We're still falling I dare say in the unknown. What's on the other hand with, say, domestic denationalization? What about, Tadic may be talking about the return of tourist land to Hvar, Zadar, Sibenik, Makarska. So one summary. Tito in 99% of the cases solved the problem of strangers. When I say Tito clearly, I mean, I don't know, ex-Yugoslavia diplomacy. With Austria if you trust Professor Simonetti that problem is solved. With American Jews, the problem was reportedly solved except in some exceptional cases. With Italy except for these 5,000 5236 persons the problem is solved. I don't mean 35 million dollars for zone B, STP – free territory of Trieste i.e. It's lush. There's just something that needs to happen. With Israeli Jews unlike the Americans with whom the problem was solved, I doubt it was solved, with the Germans, please? ... He's got a deal, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Even though they claim they don't. They're referring to those 150 and some names. With the Germans, it was settled because recently Mrs. Merkel said in a single interview: "We are not looking for anything in front of the German government." It is clear that you always have someone who has escaped from an area and something like that and who does not, for example, cover any international contract. There's always some individual in that package to express myself like that, like a pike in the water to paraphrase Mr. Mak, slip away. As I experience the Constitutional Court's decision, so does their sentence. However, according to my court, the government would have to issue a "white book" of all these international contracts, all these exodus. It doesn't matter if it's an exodus of Italians, Germans, Austrians. The number of those unfortunate fates, repatriation of war damages and so forth. Well, only after that could the Parliament discuss all this. But there's time. There's time. It doesn't have to solve this conflict. Someone's gonna say I'm cynical. Well, people already have, I don't know, 80, 90 years and so on. Some hope for some moral satisfaction. In the meantime, she'll die, but this, this problem I think the government has approached, maybe even morally right, extremely irresponsible, volunteering. Well, maybe unprofessional. And he should be so restrained about what's going on. The problem's for sure we'll stay. We will not as people in politics if we repeat our mandates from him, but so let the government come out nicely with this "white book" damage, repatriation, I don't know about war losses, and let's not go into this problem without a political consensus because we will all fall into an ambience of obligations that Croatia will ultimately question whether it will be able to implement? I, unfortunately, did not get my answer, but I am glad that on the survivors of the campers, a question was asked to the government by Mr. Nikola Ivanis. And that's what I'm saying more in the context of a doctor, Dr. Deprate of Pula, who seeks the status of a political prisoner. He says: “I was in an Italian camp from 1941 until the end of 1943. After that in the Allied Army. I was, I was, where? Yes, in partisans. In 1945, 40 black shirts from Marshana surrendered to me. A few of them got the status of a political prisoner and the government doesn't admit it to me." Now what we're going to do about it is but there's an interesting response from the government that says: "Because there is no competent authority or regulations that would solve the status of persons who were in the concentration between 1941 and 1945, and after the demands of them around 1500 were delivered to the administrative commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They've been putting up with each other since 1990. The requirements of the campers refer to the payment of the special war compensation the campers seek during the time spent in the camp. Despite the reparation paid by the Republic of Italy for the $30 million SFRJ on behalf of the final compensation of the 50th and fourth parties, the parties also made a commitment not to submit themselves and not to support their own citizens' claims for compensation. It has never paid those resources to individual campers, but has invested the amount in public goods. However, in some ways these people would have to be damaged by gentlemen, but no matter what. This is such a delicate, primarily political economic issue that without one detailed consensus, these issues if we open them can cause serious damage to the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82902	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82903	Mr. President, I'm glad I've experienced an honest quite precise statement from my colleague Caine in these late hours. Well, my correction to an incorrect quote goes in favor of that, too. Namely, when he spoke about the Constitutional Court's decision, he said the Constitutional Court had made a decision to repay the debt to the pensioners. There's no such thing as a colleague Cain. There is a finding that Croatian pensioners are damaged from 1993 to 1998 and that the state is obliged to compensate them according to economic opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82904	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82905	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as you are in this hour, I am sorry there is no one from the Croatian government as we discuss this extremely important topic. So I've never seen a assembly this empty when it comes to the issue of denationalisation, it's the only important topic and I'm surprised it didn't instigate the greater interest of the Croatian government. I was really surprised by the opinion of the Croatian government. I expected him to approach it far more pedanticly, i.e. to support these at our club's point of view for the healthful conclusion of Representative Slaven Letica. So there is really nothing controversial about what Slaven is proposing. The government is therefore asked to report on the initiatives so far, to overcome the chronology of diplomatic legal resolution of these disputes, so that people are simply informed of what has been signed and ratified by the former state and to deposit these unfortunate $35 million to what we owe under that '83 Roman Treaty. and that the Government must not initial or sign anything further, which would be contrary to national interests. I don't know what's at stake in these conclusions and the government rejects these conclusions. The whole story actually started last year at the 11th month when Sanader, Prime Minister Sanader in Austria, promised to address the issue of return of property to Austrians. This caused a natural reaction by President Mesic, who condemned it by realizing that something like that was resolved. And at that time, the day after that statement, Prime Minister Sanader went to the Parliament library and collected a whole collection of interstate SFRJ contracts, i.e. FNRJ with neighbouring countries on this issue. I'm responsibly saying that the Prime Minister didn't know about those agreements when he said something like this. Because if he knew, but maybe it wasn't him, but his professional service wouldn't have made that promise. So he was supposed to be barfing someone. Maybe the Minister of Justice, the former, maybe her professional service. But someone in the state administration made an appointment on that occasion. The deal with Austria that was the cause of this whole story speaks clearly, the one from '52. The basic state agreement that the war damage committed on the territory of the FNRJ is analyzed with the property of Austrian citizens and that Austria will not represent its citizens in the search for that property, nor will it seek anything itself. After that, there was more nationalization and then there was an agreement from the '80s. in which Austria agrees to today's concepts a ridiculous fee of 2 million and 400 thousand shillings that have been compensated for what has been nationalized since '52. '80s. But be careful, it's signed and ratified. Both agreements argue that Austria will no longer ask for anything or represent its citizens a pacus sunt servanda, so what is signed should be implemented. And now, all of a sudden, Austria appears as someone who is pushing Prime Minister Sanader to break something like that and start from scratch. So it is not only strange that the Croatian government is doing it, but also the Austrian government that promised in an interstate contract that it would no longer touch it. I looked right after that on the Internet at the position of the Slovenian Government, which is most relevant to us because it shares actually the same historical destiny as Croatia when it comes to these issues. The views of the Slovenian Government are very clear there. Denationalisation, in particular denationalisation of foreigners is not part of the Acquis Comunnitaire, is not part of the European acquis and can therefore not be the subject of negotiations with the Union nor can it be the subject of blackmail or may be the subject of trade and interference prior to the start of negotiations with the European Union. And that is a clear view of the Slovenian Government which is referred to, you also have it on the Internet. It's all normal in English. And that is where the names are listed all agreements with neighbours who could be controversial for Slovenia. The Slovenian Government also clearly elaborates on why these agreements are actually time-consuming, a closed story and do not want to open them in negotiations with the European Union. Of course, because it would cause a chain reaction to Slovenia. But be careful what the problem is with this view of the Croatian government. The problem is that Croatia will then cause a chain reaction to Slovenia, as such Slovenian views will become questionable, which we will do the same bear service to both the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Poland and Hungary. Which, of course, suggests a deterioration in diplomatic relations with these countries, because they are in the same relationship as Croatia when it comes to Austrian property, or Germans. They all had this guy's stories. And none of them hastily rushed into that solution. If you wish, the Czech Republic and Germany have de facto closed the World War II page in 1997. Czech-German declaration. ... It tells us about how we slowly close the Homeland War page. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look out, Czech Republic and Germany are in '97. They've just concluded a declaration that closes this chapter of history. So Croatia is not much worse or more incompetent. I repeat, this move with Austria has automatically caused a reaction from Italy that has sought its own, so the move of Slovenia that has sought its own. But if we had done all this together, we had both Slovenia and the Czech Republic and Slovakia... brought into an unfavourable situation and, of course, would know how to resent it later because we had actually led them to sign such agreements, or to violate what had already been signed. So the whole Pandora's box is opening. As far as Italy is concerned, I repeat again the only precedent we need to follow is Slovenia. As far as Italy is concerned, it accepted a plan that is well-known, which is that four years after Slovenia entered the European Union, Italians optanists have the right to first purchase their properties taken from them. So whatever Slovenia does, Croatia should follow. It has come this way toward the European Union and why, for God's sake, invent warm water when the whole mechanism is actually worked out. And based... The best example of all the doubts that are giving birth to the opening of this package that the Government is going to open. [[You don't understand.]] So the war damage the Italian troops have committed on the territory of the SFRY in this case of Croatia has been compensated with the property of the optanators. Of course, the property they moved out of may have been originally owned by a Croat or Slovenian who moved there among those 108 thousand who were evicted from Istria when the Italians took up the area after World War I, and then that man came and moved that Italian back to his home house. A man from Istria called me with a story like that. So we open the whole chain of fate and family tragedies. The second question is immediately asked. The agreement therefore compensated for war damage. What if there are tens of thousands of Croats who have destroyed houses from an Italian army or those of another 40,000 living campers from concentration camps? Where are we going with that? Is the government aware of that at all? And that's why what my colleague Letica is proposing is, in fact, the most reasonable thing to do is to track down what the Slovenians did, and it's really pointless not to say it's crazy to do anything other than that. The problem is actually the sloppyness of post-war authorities in Italy who haven't defiled their optanists, because the meaning of these peace agreements as well as the one with Germany, as well as the one with Hungary, is that, we will no longer ask you questions of war damage. Our government will settle our victims of war, and please calm down your citizens who have lost their property. Now why the governments of FNRJ and the governments of Italy, Hungary, Germany, Austria were sloppy to their citizens, the reasonable time after the war was low, the economy in a coma and could not return what was expected. But it's not our fault today. So I can't be guilty of some Italian government not paying some optant what he was supposed to get. Let him sue the Italian government. It also refers to the victims of the war here. For the destroyed house, they were, of course, harassing governments in Zagreb and Ljubljana, or Belgrade. The same goes for Hungarians, Austrians and others. I repeat, all of this brings us together on one fearsome chain. Hungary and I have an even more interesting story. If we start this topic, we question the agreement of Tito’s staff that went to the land exchange on the one hand and on the other, Drava, or Mura. There were some, excuse me, Mr. President, the delinquent party leaders in Međimurje who even suggested something like that, but it's a horror where that would lead. So it is actually the property of the Hungarians over the land they are now processing on the other side of Drava and Mura, i.e. Croats in Međimurje and Podravina. So definitely opening this problem in the way the Croatian government imagines it if it rejects such guidelines proposed by fellow Letica, it definitely leads to the opening of Pandora's box with incredible consequences. There will definitely be problems more expensive than 750 million kunas, because who knows what else will come out when the chain starts. So, unfortunately, the government is not aware of what it's getting into, and the HSP club will, for its part, give it a full free bona fide, one copy of our collection of interstate agreements between the former SFRY, i.e. FNRJ, to know what is actually signed and that this is indeed settled, all agreements with Italy, with Germany, with Austria, Hungary, France, Greece, Denmark, the United States, Israel, Switzerland and the Netherlands. So when he looks at all this together, he will see that we really need to follow no other path but the one that has already passed Slovenia and that we do not need to invent warm water and that we are just unnecessaryly involved in the difficult complications that will come out of it. I repeat this is not part of the aqus communautaria, it is not a request from the European Union unless someone in the Government thinks that this way will buy Croatia a faster pass for the European Union. For all these reasons, our club will unanimously support these conclusions proposed by our colleague Letica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82906	Thank you. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82907	Thank you very much. I just have to say that I'm sorry that there are so few of us, barely a dozen of us, but probably that helped make this debate more peaceful, more balanced than if it were a full assembly, and if there was a direct transmission of television here, it would probably be a different debate. I thank the balanced debate, there are different natural positions that I understand. I am the first opponent to impoverish Croatia because it is already poor enough. However, one fact remains that I would like to underline by not wanting any controversy with it. Listening before my colleague Mak, I realized one thing that actually often moves us which is very important. It's about people. It's about private property. We can talk here as cold as we are and must talk about everything that is signed. We can even speak commendably and normally of what those who would be in each worldview have signed. HSP's enemies because they were on the opposite side, it was signed by the communist rule then and now it rises to the sky. We can talk, it means a lot of things, but we can't forget something. We must not forget that it was something that today would be called human rights. That's not what we were talking about back then. At that time, the term barely existed, in 48, he entered many of the documents before, but since 48 years later with the Declaration of Human Rights he has experienced practically his bon. It's said here as normal, as it's normal to say, but I can't speak so coldly but I'll try to make sure with the property of the insul, the optanators are called, call them some we call them Izulls, they've been paid war damage. And yes, normally those who have agreed, and to be clear, states always have their logic and individuals, people get hurt on the basis of a completely different logic. So they agreed normally to pay war damage with the property of these people. As Max told me before, if Mrs. Merkel can speak for herself, but not for me. Then no one asked if the war damage could be paid with their property. Let's not forget, many, I mean many people, can't say many people, there's few of us here, but I'm telling you with my heart open. The people who left Istria, they were the people who have been there forever. That's what it stands for. Most of them were Italians, part of them were Croats. They left because there was something they accepted. Not in the national sense. The end of the war, the systems change, some new armies come, some new people, one part stays, like us, most go. There's no one in our families who's left behind and a part of those who haven't left. We're out, they're scattered, families are destroyed. And now, to discuss that these people who actually left, that their problem was solved, it was completely wrong. The problem is solved between the states and the pacta sum servanda I'm the first one to say it. But these people were left homeless, left with divided families like many other Croats who left, those who succeeded, those who didn't get stuck in Bleiburg, managed to leave. What were Ustashas maybe you? It's not about fascism, anti-fascism, it's not about Ustashas and partisans, it's about the population that goes away for various reasons at some point. Are we talking about these Croats who went out as optanists because they became Austrians, because they became Germans, Australians, Americans. I'm talking about the Croats who left. These were the Istrians, the Rijekans, the Zadrans who have been there since the ages, who have gone and their fates have been decided by others. I want to point out that if we look at the human rights point, then we'll do the only thing we can after six years. We'll do symbolic acts. Who can give these people back what was taken from them. They were all taken away, part of my family lived for five years in a school that was a camp. Mak was here in Croatia for a year in the camp, and his entire family probably left. But if we start discussing these people as someone who, regardless of the signed contracts, as someone we have to apologize to, as today's Italy has to apologize for what it did back then. Then maybe we'll be on our way if we discuss those terms. We can't bring them back, nor can we poverty Croatia by bringing history back 60 years, but we can tell these people, your families have been there since the ages and you're home when you come. Because we're gonna be together, because we're already together in a new Europe. And since Ivo Sanader is safe, we can discuss whether he is implementing such a policy on other things, but one thing is certain and that is why I support him and therefore I have supported him from the beginning and I support him today, he must be a file European. I am unlike some others, I am sure that he will find a way to end that period and will find a way to actually enter Europe in a symbolic way and, of course, with, as I would say, in an effective way, in an emotional way, not in a material way, but in a way to say some things. Like. If people had ended up in foybs, you'd probably have been following my polemics these days, like fascists were criminals. Both things. I'm sure Ivo Sanader will solve this problem and I'm sure we'll get into Europe relieved of this ballast we've had and carried all these 60 years, most of which were years of dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82908	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82909	Comrade Radin, HSP representatives are not fascists and are not followers of fascism, nor are we those who defend communism nor are we communists. So we just want to close that period. So I don't understand why Croatia should act differently than Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland or Slovakia. When it comes to people, then, of course, you have to talk about all people because if someone is talking about the difficult fate of the optanans who have lost their homes, then of course I have to ask the question of what is the fate of the people on Hvar in Dol and Vrbanja whose Italian army burned down houses and who had to sleep in the stables and in the woods in the middle of winter. So we're talking about all people then. So we're talking about those kids who died in... who was there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about people, of course people get emotional, but this is a subject you'll forgive in which we have to listen to two things. An apology is one thing, an apology is all right and an apology is needed, and a breach of the contract is something else entirely. I'm just the two things I know. So, one thing on an emotional level is to apologize for what was done and it's not easy because the Czechs and the Germans did it only in '97, and the whole other thing is to go to a systematic breach of the chain of agreement. That's all I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82910	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82911	Well, I'm sorry Tonci Tadic with whom, I think we understand each other, we are in excellent relationships, personally, that he understood it that way because I didn't say it myself. I don't think so. HSP is a democratic party to this House. A party on the right, but a party that is democratic and I don't think I should say it. I said one other thing that would certainly be read by Tonchi later in the record, I said that cold and positive approaches to the things that some of them were dealing with are ideological conflicts, because there was an ideological conflict, and I guess there is today. And about that now, the crimes of fascism will, I'm, I'm 56 years old and of those 56 years I spent 40 in Yugoslavia as well as most of them here. We read about it, we learned about it, we knew all about it. This in the second part, including in the Croatian part, about Croatian injuries we knew nothing about, nor about Italian... We didn't know anything, and let's not talk about them now, we know that and that's how I'm ashamed of it first, but I'm also ashamed of the photo, for example, because of my exodus, because it's gone from Pula 85% of the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last thing I'd like to say is that it's actually to blame Tony Tadic for what he said before, but I'm putting him in line. The first exodus was an exodus of Croats from Istria in the 20s, in the '30s was terrible, but those people when they came back found their property because the property was not nationalized, it was not taken away. That's what I have to say because it's true and I've investigated it myself. So it must be said that human rights were not respected, people were killed, castor oil, whatever you want, it's all true, but private property was respected because it was such a system. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82912	Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82913	Yes, absolutely I agree with that in the great majority with Furia, esola was wronged. Injustice to heaven has been done. But also this property material issue today was solved in 99.9% of cases. The issue today is high and the country's material essence cannot be opened. How did that question work out, materially? In one extremely unfair way. War damage to private property. It's an injustice to the sky, it just can't be done today. Now let's look at the Serbian question. So there were those who were here today in this House, and they said that they were the fixed ones, but these people are returning today, and their houses are being restored, and they are keeping clear houses in their possession, or property. In one word today, 2007 or '95. It's not possible what happened in '47. Or '54. Or before '45. And so, once again, it would be really good to write a white book, to add all these under quotes of international agreements, there are also Tonci Tadic, there are Damir Kajin, there is no wisdom, there is our library down here, we found it right here, and on this basis it is really in a far calmer and more collected without the political emotions of the crowded atmosphere that will talk about a question that will certainly determine some political relations in those areas for some time. Not much, but in one small part certainly yes. However, once again, I would like to emphasise the war's damage has been compensated by this private property, the pacta sum of the servanta, the issue cannot be opened because it would simply lead us to unknowns that none of the Parliament's councils, nor could any government of Croatia simply resolve. And I agree that on this emotional issue, some symbolic gestures need to be closed. This may have been the first I started to tell you in Istria, perhaps a little bit softer than Furio Radin, should in some way close those questions, but once again I speak to any authority of any material obligation higher and more can't take over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82914	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82915	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Very, very short. I think that counterpart Tadic said everything that should have been said about historical facts and I thank him for this really once exhaustingly correct statement. I can only recapitulate in two minutes. So the fascists and the Nazis attacked our country 60 years ago, robbed it, burned it. That's what communists use, they come to power, they don't recognize private property, they turn it into state property, but it's not the only robbery. After 50 years, it happens exactly the opposite. It happens that the national wealth of Croatia will once again disappear, evaporate, but in the reverse process where state property will now be transformed into private through a privatisation that was all but not a real privatisation. He now threatens us if the government makes a mistake in the moves and the third robbery, unnecessarily agree with counterpart Tadic, with counterpart Kajin. In fact, imagine if a brave Turk shows up as Turkey approaches the European Union and the European acquis and asks for compensation for the fact that his great-grandfather had been stolen by a shadow horse and sought reparations for the situation. I'm making a little fun of the situation, but I'm doing it on purpose, because if historical mistakes need to be taught, then no doubt all Croats should have colleges, and I'd really like to conclude today that all of us who consider ourselves honest Croatian politicians, regardless of party membership, put our heads together, draw the line and not allow this story to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82916	Thank you. Final Review of the Proposer, the Honored Representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82917	Mr. President! First of all, I want to thank you personally for using your authority to get this agenda point in these late hours. As far as I'm concerned, it's really like a thousand if it's the best, it's especially nice that Slavko Linic showed up, and I'm sorry there's no one in the SDP, but I'm glad there's no one from the government because I'm afraid of that government. I'm afraid of her, of her surfaces, of irresponsibility, of her haughtiness, of the fact that no one is coming here and now I'm going to say something about two levels of debate. One level that Furio Radin spoke not of my findings, of course. The other thing is that I am for Croatian citizens with all gestures of this and that form to be compensated in some way for whatever we want, but not by depriving them of the Italian state in our account, based on the opening of closed chapters II. World War I. As far as this debate is concerned, I would like to thank my colleague Miljenko Doric first of all, then my colleague Tonci Tadic, because we have actually been on the same wavelength for 3.4 years. As for the very debate of that guy who was talking about Furio Radin here, let's say what I know, my family was banished to El Shat, even a brother named Slaven Letica died, so I had until '72. the year of the monument written by Slaven Letica, a victim of fascist terror. So this one, I'm sorry, I don't have it, it's lost somewhere. Then I'd like to thank my colleague Maku for his great wisdom. Suffering... The way I see it, I've known a lot of people, these were children from six to nine years old, girls who were in Jasenovac, two, three, five years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, periods are very difficult. What I wanted to do with my conclusions was to propose a simple system of soundly unsuspecting conclusions. The government's opinion has nothing to do with what I suggested. This at least raises the government's intention to change the law, because the changes in the law do not exclude the government's obligation not to keep us here like geese in the fog, that every day I see someone meeting in the hallway of the United Nations with Prodia, that tomorrow I know that Hido Biscevic is flying to Rome and saying that Italians can buy real estate before 2009 without reciprocity, when I see Schossel coming down and down on the yacht of that man who precisely comes and then make an important Prime Minister tell him, I'll give you back this and that. You know, neither did we get it, but we borrowed it from people who were just about to be born. Croatia is in a difficult time. Croatia has sold I have seen the scenarios of Croatia's future in Argentina, but the Argentineans have made a big turn in one hour two, three years. We are therefore as I have said since this year or this year in absolute debt slavery. Everything we've rescheduled, treated, let's say the banks cured it with $11 and a half billion, sold it for a billion. This will happen to us with highways, with Croatian waters, with Croatian railways, with Croatian electro-business. So, I conclude, I am glad that I have just finished here is the last line of my book, that in some way I am amnesting the President of our Parliament because I have always believed that there is a state reason. The state's cause has few points of contact with the level of human rights. What no one will convince me is that Ivo Sanader has reason enough in his head to have a sense of state mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-01-0.u82918	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. on the agenda. The proposal for a decision to withdraw public goods status in the general application of part of the railway infrastructure, point 10. Proposal for a Code of Positive Practices, Standards, etc. At 15 o'clock, the vote on the debated points. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the guidelines of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements applied to the provisions of the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government. Proposer of the conclusion is representative of Slaven Letica. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for that conclusion is not accepted. Please engage. To vote. The result? 68 for, 10 abstentions, 7 against. He didn't get the majority he needed.
