ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, I will briefly seek to explain the proposal for a law that was immediately in the beginning of support for all student associations and all student organisations in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, there are more reasons for the adoption of this Law on Student Choir and Student Organization, and what is most important is what is very interesting at the beginning, that this is one of the few laws that has actually been passed by one commission where most students make it. It's one step the ministry and the government wanted to make, because more than 60% of the members of the commission are actually students who of course know their problems best. The 1996 student choir law established a roof student organisation of the Croatian Student Assembly and brought some of the key issues of student representation closer together. Since 97, however, when the law was abolished due to formal unconstitution, the same year a new minor amendment was adopted, in fact, many issues still haven't been properly resolved. One of those questions that students wanted to change over and over again was the issue of automatic membership, where students became members of the Student Assembly by enrolling themselves in high school. The second was a very complicated way of presenting students. So those students who were the most excellent, who were the best or members of student associations could not enter the student representative body and therefore became certain problems. The question of the awareness of the membership of student organisations is best commented through statements already then by a student lawyer at the Faculty of Philosophy who said in fact that 80% of students then thought that at the beginning of each academic year they should join the student assembly even though it was automatically their right to belong. So they weren't aware of the student organisation's belongings. It was also very important to define the attitude towards student associations that were very often organised in ways that even high - school leaders did not know about them. The issue of project financing, but also a strong implementation of the "Bolonja Process" where Croatia is today actually becoming one whole leader in this part of Europe, I hope at a meeting of European Union ministers, very soon at the meeting of education ministers, Croatia will be ranked according to current information among the eight best countries regarding the implementation of Bologna today in Europe. Then Croatia also received one comment that students must participate in the implementation of the "Bolonian Process". You know that we now work very well I would say significant changes in the management bodies of Croatian roof organisations regarding higher education. I'll say one of the examples. Within the Agency for Science and Higher Education in the Governing Council for the first time in Croatia will be a student and that decision will be made very quickly and Croatia will then meet all the conditions that are so necessary for the implementation of the "Bolonian Process" where student participation is maximum. So, the consequences of this law are as follows: A compulsory and automatic membership of students in the Student Assembly is being abolished, the student assembly becomes the representative body of all students, i.e. the real student parliament, with the note that one third of the students will be elected and actually directly selected from students, which is the first time in these areas that students enter one body, such as the student parliament, especially those students who are most excellent, have welcomed it because the excellence of the choice of Croatian scientific education policy and in this way the most excellent have the right to participate and represent students. Another way that is extremely important, which is a simpler and more transparent system of student representation. Instead of countless delegations of student representatives, in this way you have a very clearly defined model who enters the higher school system and, of course, those students who are chosen among candidates who are on the list. So an election list with students is a brand-new form of choosing. The election commission has thus been formed, that five members of the electoral commission are again most students, three come from the Student Assembly, and two are from the Senate or from the council of colleges and of course from the order of teachers. The students have a key role to play again. The issue of election lists, I think it's a civilization step for a higher education system. Because definitely through the electoral lists, the activities of students and their engagement in the election system are being raised. This is one of the key elements because the issue of protection of student interests cannot be better defended from students, especially those who are interested in leading the whole process. It is an extremely important issue to resolve the status and concept of student associations. This is particularly important because today it is the fact that the management of student associations registers is being transferred to high schools which are also being supervised by this proposal and the legality of the work of these associations. An extremely important point because so far it has been a large number of associations that may have worked on the parallelism mechanism, thus being the source of certain conflicts. This time everything is very clearly defined. If we move to the second segment extremely important for the functioning of the student assembly, which is a question of student organisation through the concept of transparency, then the powers of control over the work of the student choir and other student organisations go to a system of higher educations, of course which have full autonomy, but also responsibility and higher universities can thus work to monitor the use of money allocated by student organisations and the Croatian Student Assembly. One extremely important step. Students have gone very far and about another right which they have so far not as such had in the Republic of Croatia. It's a student lawyer issue. The student attorney is a civilization step you can see at Harvard's largest universities, University of Chicago still where actually the student attorney has a direct influence and receives complaints from students concerning their rights, discussing them with all the competent bodies of the university if necessary directly with the ministry, the minister, the secretary of state, the assistant. They also advise students on how to exercise their rights, which has been one of the biggest problems so far. Students often wrote in their anonymous complaints that they did not know how to exercise their rights. The student attorney is actually the person who can do it. The student lawyer may participate in strict proceedings against students led to the protection of their rights, but may also carry out all other processes that are laid down by the higher education act. Of course, when it comes to the question of exams that student exams are open to the public, of course, it is also open to a student lawyer. What the bill is is that each high school has its own student lawyer appointed by the student assembly for one year, or according to other acts of the student assembly. This mandate can be repeated once more. In the way it is presented this Law is definitely an increased quality of student representation. For me it represents a serious civilization step and that is what students have given unequivocally. In addition, the organisation and transparency of the student organisation is at the highest possible level using the model of the best, as Croatia has chosen the path to compare with the best, not the average. Supporting the integration of Croatian universities is an extremely important goal, with the maximum support of the rectorial assembly, because you know that Croatian universities when they achieve full integration that they actually revived Bologna in the right way. The very important goal is to raise the level of protection of student rights, and if you are looking at the model of transparency it is extremely important to say that for the first time we are going through public competitions to finance student programmes and again the commission in it is made up of most students along with of course other university employees. Provisions from the financing of the student assembly and other student organisations are very clear from the issues and items of the higher education budget at which the student assembly operates. He therefore very clearly defines funding from the budget of the university, universities and higher schools, foundations, foundation of donations, share of the income of legal persons participating in the recruitment of students, as well as from other sources in accordance with the laws, as well as the acts of student organisations. The funds for the implementation of this Act were secured in 2007 in the amount of 8 million kuna and 100 thousand kuna in the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Allow me a few more comments that I find extremely important. The students have shown one great responsibility for the election. So, students believe it is extremely important that they are represented by those who are the best, i.e. those who have reached a number of ECTS points during their studies, so the student representative cannot repeat more than one time a year which is completely new, again I repeat the civilizational step that students themselves have proposed, or if he did not collect at least 60 ECTS points in 2 years. This made it very clear that those remarks, comments from earlier that student representatives are those who study forever actually enter the past and students with this own proposal have shown how important they really are to excellence. Let me just say in a few words the reasons why this Law is adopted by an urgent procedure. He may be most important because of the deadlines of the next elections to be held, but he is also needed because I would say the first year of college where students are right after they started with the first academic year, until they actually knew who represented them went to the polls and proposed their representatives, while now they have at least a few months where they can meet who they represent and only then go with election lists or delegations, depending on individual cases. I would say that this is an extremely important step and it has been fully supported by the leadership of the student choir, numerous student associations and, of course, the rector's choir. The question of the level of establishment of the student choir is also organized according to the model of student choir-universities, student choir-teachers, student choir-teachers, student choir-high schools and, of course, at the level of the state Croatian Student Assembly as co-ordinated body of student choirs of all higher schools. Why is he important at the state level? So it is important that standards, student rights and all that is necessary for the student organisation at the level of the Republic of Croatia to be synchronised, that the conditions of study in Zadar, Dubrovnik, Split, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, but at other universities are compatible, because you know that one of the most important standards needed for excellence is the coherence of the entire education system so that we do not have places that are in a discriminatory position from some other higher universities. And what is most important to me, this law is proposed by one great consensus. I want to personally thank my administration, and I want to thank the Secretary of State, Uzelac, who ran the body, but also a series of representatives of the students who participated, and I have to admit the Law is done quite long and thoroughly. More than a year and a half. For more than a year and a half, he's been bringing in, preparing. So he is the result of uniting what is best now in the world of higher education, which is based on the Croatian educational tradition, the tradition of the European Union. But again, it is Croatian right to take from the best. Just as Harvard or University Chicago have their own law or regulations, so Croatia takes from the best. After this law, nothing will be the same about the work of student organisations. The Bologne process that enters its own, ends in the third year, let me just say, is probably one of the biggest stills of the general development of the education system aimed at the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And when students have the right to express themselves very clearly, I would say my views, and when the system organises everyone to have the right to excellence, I believe that this law can contribute to the extremely high involvement of students in the implementation of the Bologna Process, on the care of what is their right and constitutional category of education. On the other hand, it gives Croatia one new dimension. And this is the dimension that equal participation from students is necessary for the implementation of all processes. It's a paradigm of a new education system on all verticals, is there a student within the centre of attention? The teacher, such as in primary and secondary education, is directed towards the student, so in the system of higher education he is directed towards the student. The entire system of higher education exists because of students. He's this way adapted to student needs. And I, Mr. President, welcome him with great enthusiasm, because this is probably one of the first laws in the Republic of Croatia regarding students they have brought themselves, by their consensus. I think that's why we're proud of our students because they've shown a great deal of wisdom. And finally, their basic message is excellence. Here, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86157	Thank you. Legislative? Education, science and culture. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić, rapporteur of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86158	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. At its 32nd session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the draft law on the student assembly and other student organisations with the Final Bill on 28 March. The board discussed this issue as a parent working body. The opening statement in the Committee was given by representatives of the applicant. The debate accepted a proposal by which the student assembly would not be as a mandatory form of student membership, but rather a form of organisation that is primarily a body of presentation of students and their representation in forums of higher education institutions under the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. At the same time, the student assembly would also be a form of organization in a material sense. It would be a form of student representation that works in student associations and other forms of organization of importance for students and higher education institutions. Other newspapers have also been accepted that meet new needs in the high school environment, such as a student lawyer who would deal with the protection of students' rights. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt an emergency procedure of the Student Assembly Act and other student organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86159	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86160	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates! The Committee, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 77th session held on 22 March 2007 discussed the draft law on the student assembly and other student organisations with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 21 February 2007. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the final draft law, in particular regarding the appointment of a student lawyer. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86161	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86162	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen representatives in the Croatian Parliament! The Croatian Democratic Community Club well considered the draft law on the student assembly and other student organisations with the Final Bill. When the Student Assembly Law was passed in 1966, it was a significant step forward in the student organization. A year later, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished the law because it was not voted by the majority of the total number of MPs. The same year, however, a minor amendment to the new Law on Student Choir remains in force. In order to address some issues in a quality way, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has developed a new law that we will discuss today in this House of Higher Education. The new Law on Student Conventions does not restrict the right to free association of students, clearly defines the status of student associations, a single and transparent development policy and funding of student associations. The 2003 Law on scientific activity and higher education and changes and additions from 2004, has taken a major step forward in organising student representation. With the basic questions that Mr. Minister has raised before me, which need to be regulated by law, I will look back at the consequences that will arise with the adoption of this law. A student assembly is established as a representative body. The institution of a student lawyer is being established. The level of quality of student representation is increasing. Student representatives freely, in line with the interests of students who represent the student assembly at their high school. The supervisory authority of the student assembly and other student organisations shall be transferred to high school. Students' associations are defined, frameworks for holding student elections and financing the work of student organisations are envisaged. The number of student representatives in high school representative bodies has been increased and the possibility of a suspension veto on issues of special student interest has been introduced. For the first time, the rights of university students and professional studies are regulated to support the more successful integration of Croatian higher schools through several mechanisms that are transmitted at higher school level. It is crucial to transfer students' registers, transfer powers of control over the legality of the work of the student assembly, and transfer the powers of funding of student organisations. Now there's something about student choir formation levels. The student assembly is set up as a student for university, university student choir and high school student choir. If the high school has components, for example the colleges within the university necessarily operate the student assembly of the component, the student choir of the university. Student choir system. The high-school student assembly consists of higher-school students who elect the elected representatives in the election among the candidates listed in the election list. The Croatian student assembly consists of one representative of each student assembly, university and one representative of the student assembly of all universities and high schools selected by their student choirs. And maybe something newer, the newest and most important to me, it's a student attorney. In accordance with the general act of the student assembly, the high school has a student lawyer appointed by the student assembly at a time of one year, so that the mandate can be repeated once more, just once again. Supervisory of the legality of work and general acts of student organisations performs high school according to this general act. The funds needed to implement this law, which is just over 8 million kuna, are planned in the State budget for 2007 at the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the framework of the regular activities of the University of Zagreb, Osijek, Dubrovnik, Rijeka and Split. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club justify the urgency of adopting this law for several reasons. It is necessary to ensure the conduct of elections and the establishment of a new student choir in the summer semester of the academic year 2006/2007. The demands of higher universities for future elections to be held at the beginning of the summer semester, not in the beginning of the winter as the current practice has been, in many terms, assessed as very bad. The passing of this law by emergency procedure is also supported by a student assembly, a number of student associations and a rectorial assembly. The Croatian Democratic Community club will vote in favour of this bill because it is a project and these governments when it comes to education. If we know that the project of extension of compulsory education is the only project that exists in the Republic of Croatia and there is also the introduction of free textbooks since September of the month, the introduction of tax reliefs to student scholarships has improved the material status of teachers, an increase in salaries of 60% over the next few years. Many professional bodies and agencies have been established and all in order to improve the education of our children and adults. How important these projects are and how important these projects show that we can read daily in the daily newspaper that all relevant political parties, associations, individuals in all their future programmes propose projects when they are even copied when it comes to education. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club, with congratulations from the Minister and Resort Ministry on the assessment which was received from the entire Croatian public seven days ago, it is very good with the request that these eight months do so little and we will support this request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86163	Thank you. For the club of HNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86164	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I wish I could speak as affirmatively as fellow Arabovic but I will be something more critical than this law, if possible. A very important thing is the urgency of the procedure of this law. It is, of course, necessary to avoid the urgency of the procedure wherever possible. The main argument for the urgency of the procedure is that elections should be held in the summer semester of any year, so including this year 2006/2007, but unfortunately this will not be possible. In this law, even though the article on regular elections states that elections will be held between the 15th and 30th of March of the current academic year, this law is no longer possible. This law will be passed on 1 April, around 1 April and the deadline for the elections is 120 days, the adoption of appropriate documents 60 days and the conduct of elections within 120 days. We know that our institutions aren't very fast, so we can't expect it to be sooner. Therefore, we can expect the elections to be held around August 1st. This is the 120-day deadline that the law therefore provides in its transitional and final provisions for elections to be conducted. This means that this law was proposed at least half a year earlier. It's not such a terrible question. Of course, the question of the student assembly's work is an important question, but if we could work like this for ten years, I don't see any reason why applying the law by emergency procedure would now regulate the issue. The minister says this law has been long and thorough. That it's been working for a long time, but there's no reason for this law to go into haste. He's always late if he doesn't start on time. Therefore, if this law was to be caught the summer semester of this year, the academic law should have proposed to the Croatian Assembly more than half a year ago. The more up-to-date procedure at this time will lead to elections being possible only at the end of the summer semester, so there at the earliest in June or July of the month, which means it is not at all in line with the basic idea and reason for the urgency of this procedure. Now something about being the law alone. It is said that before or at this time, all the students were students of the student assembly. It was, of course, just nominal. They're really students, only a very small group of students participated in the body, in the bodies of the student choir. So in this sense nothing will really change. It's also not said here that the student gets the right to vote, by the very fact that he's a student, but that means that it's again the broadest basis from which students are then elected. So there's nothing going on here. It was called a student assembly before, and a very narrow circle of students entered his bodies. That's how it's gonna be now. All will be nominally an electoral body, but student choirs, universities, universities and universities will therefore again be one narrow group of students and this is one question that should actually be imagined why student activities, student activities, the desire to participate in the functioning of the university by spreading their interests often is not particularly highlighted. And this law in that sense won't change anything. We agree that this network, or this line of presentation, has been very complicated and this law is likely to bring about some benefits in this sense, but the general climate, the interest of students to work in student choirs, this law will of course not change or it is possible to change any, only by any law. In that sense, there will be no, unfortunately, any civilization leap as the minister says. Election lists have been as a possibility so far but in the work of student choirs, in the care of the functioning of students at the university, in teaching and extracurricular activities mainly dealt with a very narrow structure, a narrow layer of students. Most students, in fact, despite what was made possible by our existing law, were not interested in what is happening at the university, including, of course, the protection of their student rights and legitimate student interests. It would be good if the students were a little more interested. Then they could contribute, of course, to improving the overall situation at the University and thus to the implementation of the Bologna Process. When it comes to the implementation of the Bologna Process, just a few words that it does not turn out to be such a great situation as the minister presents. A few days ago one of the deans of Zagreb's colleges went out with a dilemma whether or not to continue the process at all, the Bologna Process at the University because every new year, and we enter the third year brings more students. More obligations and our colleges and ours, our higher schools are in no way capacitated to be able to handle the Bologna process. In the first year of implementation of this process, there were difficulties. The second year of things has led to almost impossible realization and the third and fourth years of course will be much more difficult because that means even the students who enter this process and we do not have any spatial possibilities, nor the number of teachers, nor the appropriate ones. So some deans are thinking about whether to continue the Bologna process at all, and that's what you read the newspaper a few days ago, the dean of a Zagreb university staged a dilemma on whether or not to continue the Bologna process at the Zagreb Faculty of Philosophy? So if you're reading the paper, and I think you or your services are reading it, then you know it very well. ... Don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's it, that's it. Students, as you know, if you want to insist on it in the Bologna process, they go to school on Saturdays and Sundays, and with the third year of the Bologna process, things are going to get worse. So that's how it is, and if you don't want to see it or if you don't follow what's going on, then of course it's your problem. A few very practical questions, if she stays like this, I think the law will be worse and that's why this law should go to another reading. And so we repeat that there's no reason because we're not going to catch the dynamics we wanted anyway. Nothing terrible will happen if we operate under the existing law for another year, and I will now have some practical questions here in which I think the law might be improved. When it comes to the Croatian Student Assembly here he is listed as a coordinating body at least it is not really clear from what he has the legitimacy to function as a coordinating body. He should be the dominant representative body of college students. Or he could have both roles. It is stated in Article 4(3) that it is a coordinating body. I don't think that's the complete function the Croatian Student Assembly should have. So there is, you might as well have a representative dimension. So he would also have to be the executioner of the wishes and policies of high-school student choirs, not just the coordinating body of those high schools. Article 5 states that the high school student assembly encourages extracurricular activities of students. And in no nearly half of this article, it does not say that it encourages the teaching activities of students, which seems more important to me than their extracurricular activities. Of course, respecting the quality that can happen in these extracurricular activities. Article 10 of this Proposal states that if the President does not call a meeting under some of the conditions set out here within 8 days then the applicants may call themselves to the meeting. We know that in the student choirs and their functioning there are often very prominent conflicts. Recently, we witnessed a beating of two student representatives in the city of Zagreb. It would therefore be good to regulate the issue of parallel holding sessions a little more precisely. If the president refuses to call a session as it stands here, then, of course, a legal remedy must be found against it. But it's not good to say here that the president, that the promoters, therefore, is a member of the student assembly, can call and hold a session on its own. The question of the legitimacy of that session, the legality of the decisions it will make. If possible, it should probably increase that quota of those who can call a session and, of course, make these legal decisions to me. So this is an exact state that should be regulated a little more precisely not only in the relevant rules that will come out of this law but also in the law itself. When it comes to decision-making, the funding of student assembly work and student associations and other student organisations is talked about how the proposal for, projects that will be funded, is going on at two levels. One level is the student assembly, and another level is the commission. This does not make it clear, therefore, that Article 12(4) of this bill is not clear what the relationship between these proposals is. What proposal is a formal proposal, which has a higher level of importance. Therefore, even in this way, if this is not defined more precisely, there can be difficulties in functioning, deciding on this important issue is financing the work of student associations and other student organisations. I think it is also not good for Article 12(6) to say that the international costs of cooperation and business of the Croatian Student Assembly will be financed by a high school from which is the headquarters of the Croatian Student Assembly, which means that it is a student who is the president of that assembly. Why would that be? Why should the entire activity of the Croatian Student Choir be carried by the Faculty of Split or the University of Zagreb or I don't know any less high school. That question should therefore be regulated differently. In this way probably the university, or high school, will not be interested in their representative being president of the student assembly, which would be natural and logical, because the automatically complete international co-operation falls on the burden of the higher school, where the seat of the Croatian Student Assembly is located. So it's not a logical formulation. Finally, Article 16 also speaks of post-election proceedings. The members of the electoral commission and the election committees cannot be members of the objection committee at the same time, which, of course, is fine. But there is nowhere to be said that members, that even candidates cannot be members of the electoral commission, which is of course very logical and which stands in all election rules when any election is regulated. So what I have stated now, so these principles and these concrete remarks say that the law is not well prepared, that this issue should be regulated that it is not good in the existing law and existing practice. But there's no reason for the urgency of the procedure. Therefore, it would be good for this law to go into second reading and then, of course, in the second reading of these issues which are not well-practical issues, to be more practically resolved so that students would really have the opportunity not to conflict and give their contribution to work and their higher schools and to protect their interests and their rights in higher schools and a fully highly educated system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86165	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations in the section of my fellow MPs against an emergency procedure due to the late beginning of this bill. This is incorrect because it took only a year and a half to agree with students, and the adoption of this law was supported by the current leadership of the student assembly and numerous student associations, higher universities and the rectorial assembly, and could be approached by the current first year, which will allow all elections to be established in the new law. So it is incorrect to quote fellow MPs that the law was being prepared late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86167	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86168	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. The HSP Club supports the need to adopt the Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations, but so that all the important issues in this area will be regulated as stated here in the draft law, which means the question of representation, the right to represent students in higher education bodies, the right of students to association, the principles of student organisations, the obligations of higher universities, tasks, bodies, statutes and the composition of the student assembly, the Croatian Student Assembly, the headquarters and the way of work of the student assembly, the activities of student associations and other students organisations at higher universities, financing, supervision, electoral law, the election for student assemblies. So it is inevitable and it is true that it is necessary, one such law needs Croatia, and the same situation is true that it is late to pass this law. But we do suggest that this law be passed in two readings because of the fact that this session has a break from 30 March to 18 April of this year and during this period it is possible to carry out all the necessary additions, i.e. a more thorough regulation of many of the issues raised in this law. Namely, if this law were passed in this form now as proposed, and I say there is time for two weeks to do the first reading today, given that the observations relating to the contents of this law are well-intentioned and so as to correct legal regulations and not get a law that is essentially declared. This law belongs to a group of declarative laws which essentially do not regulate the issues raised in the bill that the aim is to regulate these issues. And apparently, the problem is likely to be the government, the promoter for Article 67. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it says autonomy of the university is guaranteed. But university autonomy applies only to structure and action, and it does not apply to these issues. And for this reason, the Croatian Party's Rights Club proposes that today we do our first reading and that the government, or ministry for these two weeks when the break is complemented by this law on the basis of today's debate so that we have a real law where we will regulate everything that needs to be regulated. Namely, if we have a declarative law such as this and then everything is subject to regulation by the following regulations, we cannot allow many questions to be regulated by the following regulations when, as such, they cannot be regulated by the following regulations and, therefore, a specific club of Croatian parties rights proposes three major improvements. The first concerns your supervision of the work of student organizations. This is article 13. Great supervision of the legality of work and general acts of student organisations performs high school according to its general act. So surveillance cannot be carried out on the basis of a general act. How will surveillance take place? What are they, what are the powers of surveillance? What legal means can be used to monitor? It cannot be regulated by general acts, nor can legal protection be regulated by general acts. Whether it is an administrative act in terms of the protection of the Administrative Court, whether it will be the protection of the ordinary court, whether it will be the protection of the Constitutional Court. This cannot be subject to regulation by general acts. This must be precisely established and elaborated. Now I don't know if you can cover it with amendments, it's pretty hard to do. Now the second major improvement that we propose to you concerns students' associations and other students' organisations. It is not clear their status until the end because of the fact that student associations are established under the Law on Associations. So we have two legal systems. One is under the Law on Associations, and the other is that you have not worked out to the end that the student associations established under the Law on Associations have other obligations, or the other is a system and supervision and everything else. Do you want to exercise control over, I mean not you, but you have suggested in relation to the Law on Associations other control solutions in all other things, but you have to work it out because it's a lex specialis. It determines exactly what questions will be dealt with as such under the Law on Associations, which you want to elaborate on these provisions. Because that's where these problems can come from. We also suggest that not only does the November choir have the statutes, that these issues, mean the jurisdiction of both the November choir and the matters of competence of the Croatian Student Assembly, are still being discussed in the law. Therefore, and this also applies to funding. So we have the possibility to make a full full full law at this assembly session where we can regulate everything we need to regulate, because in this way we can't let the following regulations regulate all these issues. And I especially say when this word is about supervision, about the relationship between the student associations and other student organisations on the issue of funding, and these other issues that cannot be left to be regulated by the accompanying regulations that will be passed by the competent authorities that you have said here. Therefore, in this case, there is no concern that we will interfere with university autonomy. So we have the opportunity, we have time to have a law that will be enforceable and where we will regulate all things matter by law, not by allowing them to regulate by following regulations. So we're staying with our proposal that the law should, but not the law you've made. You have two weeks of time so you can do all of what we're saying today, so we're saying well-intentioned in terms of improvements to make the solutions clear do it and then we can probably bring it to a consensus. Because I don't know, we talked about what my proposal was on the Legislative Committee on behalf of the HSP Club. Have you prepared the amendments if you would go to the others in these decisions that must be made at this session means that tomorrow must be voted? Now how did you prepare them? That's what we haven't heard from you. Because this is all I'm saying we also spoke at a session of the Committee on Legislatives, because we don't speak black on the Legislative Committee, we speak legally and legally in terms of how and what we should do to make it legal and in accordance with the Constitution and that we have a law that is not declarative but a law that makes it possible to apply and implement as such. Did you do it? The question is, is it even possible to do it in such a short time, given these three things are important, three important questions. I didn't mention what Mr. Radoš was saying, but these three improvements proposed by the Croatian party of rights club. Because these surveillance provisions have to be far away, it has to be far more detailed, exactly legal, I can't say by general acts to regulate supervision, you can't regulate legal protection by a general act. It's gotta be the law. You will either say that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply, or you will say that other provisions apply. But you have to set the rules of the game, the procedure and everything else. Because that may be the way in which these general acts end up in the assessment of constitutionality and legality don't go away. Because the question is whether it can be regulated. It cannot be regulated for the sake of legal certainty and legal protection, such as this issue of funding, as is the issue of student associations' relations with the Law on Associations, according to this. Because if this is a lex specialis then you need to emphasize exactly that this is a lex specialis and then say in which questions is lex specialis. Because under the Association Act, three people are enough to form the association and everything else. So let's make these improvements a little bit. Let's take another step. And We have satisfied the November choirs. And college organizations, government, parliament. It means that we bring in and regulate everything we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86169	Thank you. IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86170	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister with colleagues and colleagues. Considering that students are present but also the future of our society then, in any case, it should be given to students in this way. The law on the November choir still in force today was passed in 1999. This law has not solved any issues in a good way. I am fundamentally short of the fact that all students have become members of the student assembly by enrolling themselves in high school, which limits the right to free association of citizens. The issue of student associations is also not well resolved. The lack of clearly defined status of student associations leads to the fact that it is difficult to establish and maintain a single and transparent development policy and, above all, the financing of student associations. Only a November presentation has been resolved a very complicated way through a multitude of levels of delegation. Students elect student representatives of their academic year who choose a representative amongst themselves in a high-school student assembly elected by the presidency of a high-school student assembly electing its president. The presidents of all Croatian student choirs choose the president of the Croatian Student Assembly among themselves. This large number of delegations contributes to a number of ambiguities and divisions between high-school student representatives and those at university level. But at the same time, it reduces the legitimacy of student representatives at university level. A step forward in organising the November presentation was the 2003 Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and its amendments and additions. The law thus increased the number of student representatives in high school representative bodies and introduced the possibility of a suspension veto on issues of special student interest. At the same time, the first time regulated the rights of students of university and professional studies. If this bill regulates the right to represent students in the Higher School bodies, then in this case we must refer to Article 4 which says in its 3rd point: "A Croatian student assembly is established at the level of the Republic of Croatia as the co-ordination body of students' colleges' colleges". I believe that here, however, it is necessary to put it between the coordinating body and as a representative body, and I suggest that it be respected. So if this bill also regulates the right of students to association, the principles of student organisations, higher education obligations, tasks, bodies, statutes and the composition of the student assembly, the Croatian Student Assembly, the headquarters and the way of work of the student assembly, the activities of student associations and other higher education students' organisations, the financing of the student choir and other student organisations, the supervision of the work of the student assembly and other student organisations, the electoral law, the elections for student councils, the work of the student counselor, the responsibilities of the high school head. Therefore, even if the adoption of this law achieves objectives such as the establishment of a student assembly as a student representative body, if the institution of a student lawyer is established, if the level of quality of student representation is increased, if the law empowers student representatives in the student assembly to propose the status of a high-school student assembly, while at the same time presupposing a direct selection of part of the student representatives from the faculty members of the university, this leaves it to the student representatives to freely agree with the interests of students who represent the student assembly at their university. If it increases the transparency of the student organisation, powers and supervision of the work of the student assembly and other student organisations, it is transferred to high schools to ensure that the control is carried out at exactly the level at which the student organisations operate. At the same time, students may define additional control mechanisms with the statute of the student assembly as necessary. If the practicality and functionality of student representation and organisation are increased, if students' associations are defined by law, the frameworks for the implementation of student elections and the financing of student organisations' work are foreseen. If successful integration of Croatian higher schools is supported, if the law does so through several mechanisms that are transferred to a higher school level of which the transfer of students' registers of student organisations is essential, the transfer of powers of supervision over the legality of the work of the student assembly and the transfer of powers and funding of student organisations should be supported. And as we have also heard from the minister that this law has been worked out in detail with the students, it is our duty to support this bill to make it easier for students to exercise their rights. The only question here is whether this law goes according to emergency procedures or to go to second reading in two weeks. So we propose that by the end of this session, there be no doubt about it. So the IDS Club will support this proposal, but I say with a proposal if it is possible in any way to take in the next two weeks in this second reading of the document of this possible ambiguity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86171	Thank you very much. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86172	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike these colleagues of mine who spoke before me on behalf of their clubs, I would actually like to take one other direction as a representative of the liberals. What we are actually interested in, how it is possible for universities, i.e. students to be able to turn them into a trap for a future liberal democratic, promoting a liberal democratic culture in Croatia. It must be clear to you that after 71 years, actually in Croatia, a student movement has gone dark. It was destroyed in the worst possible way politically, no dialogue would have been established if... the closure and foaming of students were not considered dialogue, but after that, and there it was almost 30 years ago, nothing important happened in this society. And just as students are also, instead of practicing democracy there at universities, promoting new paradigms, that official culture is opposed to anti-culture, attractive ways of thinking, thinking and thinking, we actually lived in times where it was not a desirable form of behavior and precisely this desirable form of behavior if it had to be there in the '70s and 80s, I don't see any reason why this practice and with these democratic changes happened. And indeed, when we can almost give a general assessment that our student population is cruelly silent and that this is something that we as a politician should be very concerned about, and exactly what I'm interested in, that these proposals of the law are that incentive that this very mind, wisdom, knowledge and skill will put on the disposition of society as a whole, because I don't think I can and I don't want to agree to them, that it's actually the point of policy to euthanaise these young people rather than to allow them to hear their voice, because any voice that would be anything more than mere lust, or that would actually avoid the relaxation of these... reflections and that would become a public and political fact, would be more than welcome. I can't imagine a society where we would all be independent and in some way actually run away from any political engagement and in some way agree to this existing situation. And finally, if a man reads a little bit and unfortunately in those black almost chronicles, the columns, then we see that in the student choirs, what is happening now is actually going on in both the conditional and the big politics. Here's what I'm following up on about the student choir at the University of Osijek, there's almost no difference between saying these, what's usually being attributed to a policy of manipulation, exploiting a position, or where a small number of people are bringing in, a small number of people pick up certain people who, in that place in some way, take hold of it, and in some ways care exclusively about their own interests, and they're not at all interested in promoting what business they should be dealing with by definition. And that's why there's certainly a law like this that's going to change this existing state because here we all realize that this law is from '97. the year that it is full of illogicalness and disadvantages, that it is unclear, that it is first and foremost complicated, that it is an untransparent way of organising students who are said again in the end only comes down to one exclusively dry procedure, to carry out a large number of delegation levels, and then it is quite normal when such things are set up that even then solutions can't be quality. So these choirs are composed of several students who are again from a few, and unfortunately I say among the student population there is a complete disinterest in participating in the election of members of the student assembly. In other words, if you're actually giving up the possibility of changing your own engagement with a full engagement then you don't have to expect something when you're done, when you become a full-fledged citizen in a different way, you'll actually act the same way, that you'll give up and that abstinence will actually be a state that we will constantly face. On the side, I'm just saying we can talk about that there's too little information about the functions and tasks of that student choir, but I'm saying first of all we need to look at the fact that after '71. For years, we have faced the euthanasia of one of those populations, which by definition must be critical, which by definition must be alternative and which by definition must question this adult world. And then actually now here we are in 2007 facing one of those conditions. I say that's why I don't care so much about these solutions if it's not going to be on the trail of this very basic idea, which is how to ensure that in our universities we really start practicing democracy and how exactly to step into real democracy from this populist way of thinking. That's what I think is relevant. If we don't solve that question, then no law will actually be good. This bill says it is trying to establish a student assembly as a student representative body, says that, the institution of a student lawyer is being established, the level of quality of student representation and transparent student organisation, the definition of student associations is increasing, and that it will support the successful integration of Croatian higher universities. As a finding, you can't have anything, I say nothing against, but if I say again it won't solve this really important question, the question of their engagement, the question of really being involved, that this one, I say that that voice doesn't come down to humming, doesn't come down to some mere reflection, but to be a part, to become a public political fact. That's what we need to be interested in, and now it's a big question, though, is whether any law can ensure that if, in fact, the environment in society is not such as to encourage and enable, facilitate the promotion of exactly the youngest, the most liberal, the most critical population in society. It's what I say as an intensities in the club of representatives of HSLS supports, but we would also point to some shortcomings, let the worse and the more technical solutions I say that might once again allow this fundamental intensity to come to terms. Article 1(2) states that the student assembly is a student electoral body that will protect the interests of students and will participate in decision-making in higher education bodies and represent students in the higher education system, while the play 3 shows that under the student organisation the student assembly, student association or other organisation of students is independent of the form of organisation that operates at the higher school. This would mean that the student assembly and student election body and student organisation are the same, that it is placed in the same basket with other student associations and organizations that can under the law... establish groups of 3 or more persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should make some distinctions here. If the student assembly is an original representative, then it cannot be an organisation at the same time because, first of all, Article 9(1) is determined that the student assembly, for example, of the higher school, consists of students of the higher education which other students choose by selecting candidates on the electoral list and the one as defined by this Act, the student electoral body and should not be identified with student associations and organisations because they are categories that are created by voluntary association of the Association Act. Therefore, the student assembly should be defined as a student electoral body by which students participate in high school management, representing the entire student population. For these reasons, we should refer to the very name of this bill that says this is the Proposal for a Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations. In our opinion, the word "others" should be thrown out of this because I don't think there are any valid reasons why the law doesn't read the draft law on student choirs and student organisations, and not others. Article 7(2) states that the statutes of the student assembly shall determine both the bodies of the student assembly and the means of appointment of the student lawyer. This is primarily the Law on the Student Assembly, and it would be logical to determine in the Law what the bodies of the student assembly are and to prescribe their work. In our opinion, the law also requires the appointment of a student lawyer. Article 9(2) states that at least as many members are elected in the elections for the High School Student Assembly... universities, or higher education council, have student representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the minimum number of members who can hold a high-school student assembly who are elected in the election among candidates listed on the list, but with the highest possible number of members and with the maximum number of representatives of the high school student assembly. A normal and bulky question can be asked, and therefore the effectiveness of such a body should also be considered. Article 17 says that the university has a student lawyer appointed by the student assembly on time of one year and... The student attorney can do it again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Article 6 of the same term of office, both the President and the Vice-President of the Student Assembly have been appointed. ... One year is a short period because the appointed ones are always coming up with new elections, and it is actually a big question of what can be done in a year, and it would be better to extend the mandate to at least 2 years, indicating that the term of office and shift will come to an end if the student status normally comes to an end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I say more or less these technical details and these certain shortcomings in our opinion and the bad solutions are in the shadow of what we actually think we should, as high, like this High House, think, and this is really how this, or those who have the most energy, most willing to involve these people in political and public life, that they don't stay on the margins and that really only with nostalgia do we remember the student movements of '71. This does not mean that I plead to repeat such a thing, but certainly that we are curtailing a stronger dialogue between politics and students that there should be and certainly this questioning of these new paradigms, alternative worlds, should be the thing that will produce our universities, and not really say that they become an extension of compulsory education where nothing really happens, and where you have little then to face a swamp of spirit which certainly would not be good, which is not commendable for us, but God neither for them. And what I'm saying is, I'm curious about how to ensure this active and daily exercise of democracy, so let's hear those things and those suggestions that we may not like, but precisely that show that our students don't care what kind of society they live in. But once again I say, we support the intensities of this bill, is it obvious that the old one must change? But it would be even better if, in the daily work of both the ministry and the minister with his associates, we were to bear in mind the fact that the greater number of young people in particular say in political and public life, which would then become more content, more interesting and richer. And this enables just that competition in society, that competitive moment. I think that's very important, because I say without that freedom, I'm afraid, without ensuring the establishment and legitimacy of the free way of thinking, I'm afraid there's no movement in our own, this conditionality of high policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86173	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86174	Thank you very much. Well, at the beginning of his presentation, colleague Kramaric said that there was actually no genuine student movement and organisation in the last 30 years, or since '71. I think it's an incorrect allegation and that not only could we not accept those who were studying at that time, but actually all those who don't think that the student movement must be happening on the streets. However, at the end of his presentation, he returned to it. I mean, I wouldn't remind him of a series of projects and cultural and media that still gave him as much of their time as possible. So it would be bad to talk and talk about students just them, that they're the ones who are doing something and they're socially engaged if they show up on the streets. Since '68. i.e. in Croatia since '71. Students are no longer the ones who manifest their political, cultural and others on the streets, some other commitment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86175	The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86176	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Certainly, the debate on the draft law on the student assembly and other student organisations must give rise to a great deal of interest, above all, to students. I hope that it will also cause the interest of colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we discuss this Proposal for a Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations, it should primarily mean that the existing Law on the Student Assembly has shown too many shortcomings or that some questions have not been settled in a quality way. According to the promoter, the main reasons are the undefined status of student associations. By enrolling in high school, all students become members of the student assembly and only presentation or selection is complicated and we have a large number of delegations. This is supposed to be an existing situation, and these are among other main reasons why the new law was to go. So the new law has just offered some new solutions. And according to the promoter and the improvements. And above all, the institution of a student lawyer is established, established as a student representative body, quality of level of student representation, or transparency of student organisation. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club at the beginning of the moment, we believe that this proposed bill is, above all, a principled character. And for these very reasons, we think it would be good for the motionor to consider following remarks, well-meaning remarks to be directed to another reading, because there is still time during the session, and during this session to discuss the final draft of the law. Too much has been passed in law, or is left to some other act. For example, high school status, higher school status or student choir statute. Even in his election procedures, he is given a large amount of free hands from the student assembly. The question is, what kind of charm is it going to be from college to college? We believe it won't be, if it takes some kind of co-ordinated role and university. But according to this, we may have different solutions. A lot of talk is about the responsibility of high schools or high school leaders, but there is not exactly the standardized responsibility of members of the student assembly because of a certain non-fulfilment of obligations. I also have to say at the beginning that the question is, is it a very good or well-defined question, or status, and the relationship between students and student choirs or associations? By enrolling in college, the student has fulfilled his basic interest and begins to study. However, according to this new bill, he has some right to participate once a year in the student assembly elections, the only one representing students or student interests on the university council. However, it can also be organised into a particular student association. For example, folklore, singing, or something else. But these associations won't have a representative in the Council or the Senate. Then, of course, the question is, what will the students be interested in? Of course, through their representatives in the student assembly, they are expected to represent students' interests. But the question is, will they also have too much interest in participating in the elections? Yes, this bill mentions the possibility of forming and presidencies, so as some sort of... body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I don't know if after a few years that interest or percentage of the student election will be large or small? We'll only know that then. All right. If it is the wish of the representatives of the students and we at the Croatian Peasant Party club will not oppose it, but it is a question of whether it is the wish of students, of all students, and not just of their representatives. This is why, at the proposed Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party has observations which... They were able to resolve a number of amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then, it certainly wouldn't have been that bill. And we believe that it is unnecessary to address the amendments, or we believe that the motioner will still accept the idea so far of all but the HDZ club, all the promoters on behalf of the clubs, that there is still another reading. I'm going to make a really few concrete remarks now. First, in the principles of student organisations, Article 2 clearly states that any discrimination against students is prohibited, and in the obligations of higher schools Article 3 that high school leaders are obliged to allow all students to participate equally in the elections, i.e. in electoral law in Article 14(2), states that all students in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose and be elected as student representatives. However, all of this may be questionable by the provisions of Article 14(3) where this right is selectively established. In this way, a student who twice "repeated" a year during the same level of study can choose but cannot run. Although I don't hear myself, Mr. President, I don't know if the Minister can hear me because of the noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86177	Who doesn't hear it there?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86178	Thank you very much. I hope that the promoter is sure that in the case of a certain constitutional action, constitutional law will not be questionable. Also, according to Bologna, I don't know how we can interpret it, but according to Bologna, there's literally no repeating of the year. We should even standardise not acquiring a certain number of ECTS points through a certain period of time. In the end, it is not unusual, therefore, if we want to talk about the wider consequences that certain institutions are still dealing with the problems of regular study, i.e. whether "repeated years". Well, it would be good if we all finally made it clear to ourselves what the system of study means through "the Bologna Process", that is, this feature repeat study. Secondly, it is doubtful that the law does not define the exact composition of the student assembly, or how many members will have a student assembly. It's reportedly left to the student choir statutes. According to us at the Croatian Peasant Party club, we think it's not good. The current law has established how many students are elected, for example, to the college council. Similarly, we believe that this should also be established by this law, the bill of law, because, as I said at the outset, there could be great charm. It is equally foreseen that the statutes will also establish the way of the election and, as well as this proposal for a law in Article 15, it should be detailed and the legal and composition of the student assembly should be regulated in the same way. Third, the introduction of a student lawyer. It has been relatively few speeches so far because it is, in fact, a certain newspaper for us, and so far, it is very difficult to say whether it will bring additional quality of work to the student choir or additional confusion, so as not to achieve the opposite effect. For example, a student comes to study the economy but will be more concerned with the law and protection of the rights of students and thus ignores the parent study. Or we move on, to which students will more address and seek the protection of their student rights. Will it be the president of the student assembly or the student attorney? What will be the communication, Mr. Minister? I'm a college professor, and I know very well what students mean. What will be the communication between the student assembly president and the student attorney? We'll see about that. That's why it would be good to get some things back to normal. It may be funny to you right now, but you're in college too, so you know how the students are gonna ask you about it together someday. Of course, such extreme situations as may come should also be regulated legally. Fourthly, high schools are obliged to the student assembly and the student defender to provide space for work. If that's it, I know it can't be regulated legally, but first of all, I'm talking about certain difficulties that may arise. Is that supposed to be a common room? It is possible if certain days are established when anyone will work even though I know the work of a student choir they work every day. If two separate spaces are needed, let's just remember what "Bolonia" requires, above all more room for lecturers, for exercises and more cabinets for professors, assistants and scientific recruits. So every free space has been used at this point and still too little. And according to Articles 3 and 12 of the High Schools, the student assembly and, of course, the Ombudsman are obliged to provide space for work and financial resources. If we're already talking about these financial resources, I think it might be a good idea to establish even a percentage because if college needs to co-finance the work of both the student counselor and the student assembly, with which funds, in which amount. Are there any limits? Fifthly, students' associations didn't really revive even though they were in the previous law, at least not in most colleges, as far as I know, which in itself means there wasn't any big interest in establishing student associations. Who knows whether, on the one hand, the interest of students or most former students, or on the other hand, who knows, the interest or obligations of higher universities which should also be provided to them by the student assembly and by the student defender of certain premises and material conditions for working in accordance with the possibilities. Sixth, deadlines. Certainly, the proposed legal deadline between 15 and 30 March of this year cannot be met, it is clear to all of us, but the whole work must be done within 120 days as provided for by this legislative proposal, with the first step in the obligation of higher universities to coordinate their general acts within 60 days. No matter what it looks like at this point, it's quite a big and comfortable deadline, but I assure you, knowing the system of functioning of colleges and senates is not exactly a smooth deadline. First I need of course... The statutes of the university, then they need their confirmation in the Senate of the university. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What if something doesn't work out, then coming back and stuff? I'm afraid that 60-day deadline might be a little short. After that, the next 60 days should be held elections for the student assembly in June and July. I guess until the preparations are made to make it in the month of July. What will the students be interested in? That's during the test deadlines, certainly the worst solution. Just all the reasons I've been talking about should be motive above all, and the proposer should let this reading in, let this proposal go to another reading, and then in another reading, perhaps with this repeated well-intentioned remarks, we could improve the law a little bit. Better and legally standardized it so that there would be no ambiguity or that there would be too much of that colourfulness of generality at universities or lower levels. And we believe that's when the consensus would be accepted. I do not say, when we hear the minister's testimony that the Croatian Peasant Party's Club will vote but we certainly know that there are improvements. That's what I have to say in the end so it doesn't turn out to be just a criticism. There are improvements, that should be said, and it would be unfair not to say, but these well-intentioned remarks are primarily because we would like to have a more concrete law, not just principled remarks. The principle of character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86179	Thank you. 10.56 timed out to report a ten-minute hearing. SDP representative club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86180	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Associates, here we are, and we seem to be the last club to give our judgment on this bill. In our SDP, we support the idea that on different grounds the student representation as well as student organisation is arranged because, namely, the historical official student organisation in Croatia has been dating somewhere since 1996 when the Student Assembly was formed which you will allow me to do since 1997, since I was involved in this one or another, was primarily a political body and made a good part for political reasons if I may say so. It was manifested through several facts. Most of all, all the students wanted it or not, they had to be members of the Student Assembly without being asked about it, but no one asked. Secondly, everything we've been looking at over the past few years seems to me to have culminated in 2002 with the find of the State Audit when at least some of us who were here at the time were discussing the Student Assembly and students, student activation was mostly talked about when affairs were coming, when embezzlements were coming, financial embezzlements. When, in any case, there have been some problems and nothing else in the last ten years we've heard mostly from students except that they don't become unjust in some way forgotten. Those small attempts, small student associations that were in no way supported in their work by neither the Ministry nor the parent institutions. So students' associations as I said they didn't exist, but they were not supported in their work. The funds for their work were from the Student Assembly by how much political or non-politically they agreed with the leadership of the Student Assembly which was highly politicised and, in fact, in some ways, what can be said about the Student Assembly itself which, in the student elections, had minimal student turnout and was in some way not recognized by students as a body that should represent their interests, was also converted from syncure to some individuals whose names I will not mention. All of us who follow this student scene a little bit more are well known two or three names who have made their professional business out of student presentation and only live out of it. Let me kind of recap this introductory part. I mean, it's been tied up so far in the student organization of an almost exclusive affair. What was supposed to be okay, so the activities of the student associations were extremely small or we saw them as appeals for money and for space and opportunities to work. Or several of those bright examples of dedicated individuals who devoted themselves to their studies and completed their studies simply disappeared from the student scene. The second major here was a lot of debate over the urgency of the procedure of this law. It is argued that the emergency procedure is necessary for particularly justified state reasons. I don't think these are particularly justified state reasons or at least not in the way it's meant in the Constitution. In some ways, we can kind of understand the reason that is being indirectly brought somewhere to hold student elections in the summer semester and it is really good that student elections are held in the summer and not in the winter semester as it has been so far. But now it doesn't make sense. If the Ministry had proposed the law in early September, then this would have made sense. Now it's the end of March. With all this acceleration, a possible institution would not go as radically as some colleagues who claimed the elections would be in August. At best, we can have a student election on May 15th or something, but then we get into the test deadlines seriously and anyone who is serious and on sound grounds now wants to set up a system of student representation and student organisation because this is also an opportunity to finally set it on some different or healthier basis. I don't think it's going to happen this way because the students at least the ones in which we take the most rights will be busy with the exams and will at least deal with student elections and student representation. Before I move on to a specific few remarks on the bill itself, a few words about the role of students. It has already been pointed out here that the implementation of the Bologna process will be launched in the fall by the new academic year by the third generation of "Bolognaci". We have finally come from the aspect of students to the formation of a system in which students should at least in that teaching sense be in some way at the center of the study itself. And in this sense, students must be given an active role primarily in the insurance process or in some way improving the quality of studies because students, as I said primarily in this teaching sense, exist because of students and not because of professors. Minister Primorac said he regularly participated in ministerial conferences to see how Bologna was implemented. A ministerial conference like that is now in London. Croatia has prepared the report and the minister said in an opening statement that according to these assessments, we will be very verified. I'm the report Croatia has written. And inside they write some inaccuracies. The report, for example, says that Croatia has already passed this law that we are currently discussing. And what question is, shall we adopt it? The report also says that we adopted the Law on Science and High Activity, which we completed yesterday and which we will discuss only after the Easter break. The question is, how many inaccuracies are there still in that report? And what are those? Because I'm on these two smaller examples to determine that this report that you filed as a national report on the implementation and implementation of Bologna does not actually contain true things. And now I don't think we should be the primary goal of getting a good grade. It's about us really assessing our own strengths and really implementing them. Not to tell others that we're in the top 10, the most competitive, or I don't know what I'm doing, but how to know what the real situation is. That report of yours doesn't contain true grades here at least not as far as these laws are concerned. But to return to the students in the Bologna process. It is nominally not enough in the law to establish that they play a central role either in this or in the Higher Education Act. It takes a lot more than that. I would like to use this debate and warn of one important, one important thing that happened yesterday actually Tuesday. For the first time in the history of the Zagreb University, students gave a suspension veto at the Senate session on a proposal to increase tuition. And that's okay. It's going somewhere with this whole story about the role of students. What's wrong is the rector's reaction and that's what's worrying. A rector who said that regardless of student veto, regardless of student deadlines, they would call a Senate session and raise tuition. Teacherly, now is the debate about whether or not we need scholarships. I personally and in the SDP think it is crazy to introduce scholarships in a situation where too few people and study and finish their studies in a way if the Rector of the largest university in Croatia will behave in a way that ignores the student veto that is finally the first time some higher voice of students I've said to this very black student history since these 17 years. I think a hundred of these laws, a hundred great reports of half-true or questionable truths that we send to ministerial conferences in Bologna, will help us not solve the question of student status. There are simply no administrative and arbitration solutions. And get back to that details about the emergency procedure. Why is it important that we keep these students' elections in the normal atmosphere, that in some ways this cycle, this "majance" that works at universities, turn it around. And that's why it seems really more reasonable to me, no matter what the deadlines for holding student elections have already been, no matter how much respect is given to all clubs because we were all there except the HDZ Club. A little googling has shown on the Internet that counterpart Arabovic, speaking on behalf of the HDZ club, read most of the speech that Minister Primorac held at a student meeting. So it's somewhere his attitude has shown a significantly different opinion than that of the minister and this furniture and I don't think it can be ignored in any way. The students themselves who participated in the task force to prepare this law I spoke to them and contacted their opinion is also that the law went like this in the ninth month or last summer then ok. That it doesn't make sense now. A few concrete remarks and reflections on the bill itself. I will not repeat the suggestions and remarks already made by my colleague, Radoš, a colleague of Sabati. With a good deal of these remarks, we agree, a few new ones. The student assembly under this bill continues to implement projects although it is nominally defined, and thus should be as a representative body. If we separate that the student assembly is the representative body of a student association to carry out projects in some way and in law we cannot have the student assembly carry out projects. Because then what is it? Same situation as before. The student assembly gives itself money and controls itself. I think it needs to be separated very well, and it doesn't say it in the law, or it doesn't say it clearly enough. Second. The fact that this law does not provide for a roof association of students, i.e. the Croatian Student Assembly, to be called no legal personality is unprecedented in Europe. Our student choirs, universities have legal personality. However, the roof Croatian student organisation has no legal personality. Now, if we return to Bologna, to the implementation of Bologna where students are an important partner not only in their universities, but also in national governments and even at international level, it is necessary to introduce that the Croatian Student Assembly at national level has legal personality in order to be able to communicate with all these within Croatian and international bodies according to the role to be played. For example, the ESIB as a roof association of European students. It's simply very difficult or in no way can we participate when we don't have a national roof association. And I think that's relatively easy to solve. Third. It is well established that a student representative cannot be someone who regularly fails to meet his obligations. I agree with my fellow Sabati's remarks that there is actually no system of academic years in Bologna, and in some ways we have to keep repeating each other and coming out of the table of the framework in which at least we all studied here. However, it is necessary to find another formulation but to keep the variant from ever allowing some students to live professionally and work from being student representatives without actually studying. That's a good solution, but I'm saying this academic-age intervention in some way might need to be rephrased. And the last. It is good that we also introduce the formal institution of a student lawyer although they already existed in such or such initiatives at some universities or at some of the constituents of the university. However, the law must guarantee both independence or better the impediment to the work of a student lawyer. Now, the bill says that the university has to provide material, technical and financial conditions for the university. I ask who will protect this student or student who will be a student attorney or attorney from in some way very often perfidious and very present. I wouldn't want it to get too harshly understood, but right away for the professor. I was personally a student representative at my age, where I received from individual professors “You will come to my colleagues for an exam!” I mean, in addition to providing material conditions, we must provide a student defender and independence from that very often subtle pressure of the professor because the student lawyer or counsellor and primarily a student or student, and only then has this function. And in the end, on behalf of the SDP club, we would join all those who say it might be better to invest a week's time. The happy circumstance is that the Croatian Parliament is not sitting or at least does not have an active plenary session in the next two weeks, that it may be prepared whether another reading of the law or in some way in accordance with all these discussions where we were all uniquely preparing for the amendment of the Government because I am afraid we do not miss a good chance to do something. This law is not ideal. Far from carrying all those newspapers that should be. Far from that, Mr. Minister, with all due respect and your ambition that nothing will ever be the same again after this law. There's gonna be a lot of things the same. However, it is something better than existing solutions and in this sense it is to support it. But it would be good if we didn't end this debate on this law, but to sort of follow his remarks and then actually introduce the position of students and the function of students as they deserve, and under two of what we have to give them the opportunity as seniors, as professors, as the university they need to have according to the Bologna itself. Because I repeat, not even in this teaching sense nor in colleges exist because of teachers but because of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd correct my colleague when she said I read Mr. Primorac's speech. I have my own speech here in the original handwritten, so it's better to speak and read than to speak out of your head like you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86183	Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to try to be very core and answer questions that are parliamentary representatives and some comments I would say excellently asked. Although some have read the bill better, I wouldn't have to answer some questions. But I think it's my part to explain what's going on. First, Mr. Radoš, through his debate, at least what I haven't seen before in the Croatian Parliament is talking about non-compliance with the law. He says that the existing law is only nominal, regardless of what Article 3 says that all students at the undergraduate study, so everyone enters the student assembly. It's not a nominal question, it's a question that's legally settled. And that's why we're talking like my colleague Lugaric said it was actually a commitment. And that's more than clear in this law. It's a very clear law. What is now proposed is on, in line with the democracies of the most developed countries, which is that membership is voluntary. And if the students within the Republic of Croatia unanimously point out and say about it and actually achieve a consensus on what is almost impossible I do not see how someone can better represent students than they themselves. I don't see it. On the other hand, a few very crucial and clear comments need to be answered. The issue of the costs of international co-operation and business of the Croatian Student Assembly is namely a matter of prestige, similar to that of prestige where the seat of the Rectors' Assembly is located. And there's one exceptional competition because there's additional budgetary resources and actually these people aren't left to themselves. It is our experience with the rector's choir and therefore is rotated every few years by the seat of the Rector's choir, which is now on the rector Milkovic and Dubrovnik. So it's a stimulating factor, not a factor that needs to be detimized to be the headquarters of the student choir. I repeat, not the funds that exist in that university, but the additional budgets are being provided for these people. Article 10 is a fundamental question, a fundamental question on which students insisted. And that should be made very clear. If anyone's against what the students are looking for, and I'm going to explain, then he needs to deal with the students. 160,000 students in the Republic of Croatia, they say, say 1/4 can call a meeting of the November choir. What's this all about? Well, exactly what the parliamentary representative said so far, even when she was a student or didn't and the others couldn't come up to call the meeting. It could have been a year or two if you couldn't tell the truth. And that's what the key questions are because now the students actually say next. If 1/4 of them are proposed, the president is required to convene a session within 8 days. And if he doesn't, there can be a meeting of the student choir where the truth or the problem can otherwise be solved for a year, two students because so far there have been no cases, there have been cases that haven't been meetings for a year. The question is, what's one third of the source? And that should be made very clear. And allow me, without prejudicing anything and appreciating the absolute work of all governments, none had the courage to go with this law in this way. It's not easy to reach a consensus with students. Someone who can tell happens as a political risk in the election year. I think it's happening as a logical risk. And if something logical isn't in this law, that's what the students themselves will say. And what we're saying is the decision and opinion of students in the Republic of Croatia. So 1/3 of the excellent can come from one college, it can come from multiple components if it's about the best, the ones students put on election lists. It was never in this way perhaps individually, but systematically organised in the Republic of Croatia. This is an exceptional contribution I would say to the work of the student organizations, because according to students this 1/3 might best never say what they think let's say about scientists who publish papers, let's say about students top athletes. Let's talk about students who have an average that is above the average of others. And that's one big civilization step. I have to look back at Bologna. I really appreciate all the debates that have been stimulating about Bologna. But I must look back on Mr. Radosh's comment. Let me make it very precise and clear. The Bologna process gives one complete, new recognition of Croatian universities. Is she an ideal Bologna? Well, of course it's not ideal. Of course there are mistakes. But listen to a few numbers. A thousand and 500 teachers, co-workers in the last three years. A thousand and 30 scientific recruits at high school. A 48% budget increase. I come with colleagues of the European Union ministers and they ask me if it's 4.8 or 48%. If we look at the number of students within Croatia and the European Union today, the number of students is 3.3% compared to the entire population, in America about 5.8% per whole population. So to get twice as many students, Croatia would have had a lot to do, not to be afraid of how many Croatia will get students. So why the 2.5 million-dollar investment in all Croatian universities? So why these days, too, you can see that the work has already started in Borongai. Then why the entire draft of the University of Zagreb Senate that talks about the deployment of Croatian studies and other colleges at Borongaj? Why the second stage of Zagreb credit? What's the second stage of the Osijek loan for? Why the second stage of Split's loan? So an additional 2 billion. If we're talking about the need to reduce the number of students. And let me tell you in the end. The issue of registration quotas at the moment of an existing solution to Bologna in a few years is the question of the wisdom of high-level institutions' leaders who determine registration quotas, not the minister. It's a matter of wisdom. Absolutely. And that's why the state works, that's why the state is doing this shift now according to technical and other professions, you're right, those that are needed for the development of Croatian society, I absolutely agree with you. Article 15 states very clearly, not Article 16, as counterpart Rados said, that candidates cannot be members of the Election Commission. You can't be any clearer. But it should be returned to Article 15 that does not appear in Article 16. Next, I'd say the same thing about deadlines. And of course they're very justified comments on whether the second reading in this session is true. I certainly don't want to show that the ministry or someone wants to break something over the slaughter. But after my further explanation, you find out if it's necessary. One of the key comments that is imposed is the question of normative acts and regulation of certain things within the law. And it's like a university teacher to me until I became a minister was really a lot of things illogical, but they're already defined by earlier laws, and that's one of the key problems. Let me tell you about the percentage of students. Normatively, it has already been settled in a certain law, the current Law of Article 58, where there are 10% pre-graduate and graduate students and %% postgraduate students, means 15%. Also in college councils and professional councils are 15% students. So it's settled through other laws very clearly. If the question of academic freedoms and supervision is raised, the student associations have a more difficult situation because it is very clear by law if most students within that student association are subject to our supervision but the same under supervision under the Law on Associations. So there are two laws, not to run outside one law. And that's very clear, but it's about the law that exists now. The issue of surveillance is definitely not a matter of administrative procedure. And it's clear to everyone. And I think the administrative procedure as such can be eliminated. In addition, I would like to say very clearly that this law has been decided that, apart from the supervision given to high schools, there is still a point of law that says that supervision of all institutions, universities, higher universities continues to be done by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. But the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports according to the supervision of the entire high school, not directly the student choir. It was against all the democratic rules that existed in the world. That's why high school plays a key role, and high schools, if necessary, will be supervised by the ministries. It's the lawyer's question. You noticed that very well because you actually worked as one of the first counselors. He can also run administrative surveillance if necessary. He can run everything he can actually run and the dean and he can demand the responsibility of the Dean and the head of the high school institution. However, the ministry is therefore obliged to intervene and therefore the student lawyer has protection, because he cannot still be a target that cannot work and can be as we say in Dalmatia, as to makeup. I would also like to say that the decision on the availability of financial resources still makes a high school in the end and that is very clear in the law, not students, the point of the law says it explicitly. I also think that it is very important to highlight one in my opinion a very important fact, and it is contained in Article 4. The law on higher education and science that says that in addition to academic freedom guaranteed by the Constitution, there's another one I'd like to ask to take care of, it's kind of on the side, but it's not negligible. It's academic self-government at high schools. What's she got to do with it? It concerns all high schools and universities that have no autonomy. It's an extremely important setting. What does she say? That academic self-government at higher universities includes establishing rules of study and enrolment of students, selecting leaders and teachers and managing the resources with which high schools are located. So we can't go any further normatively, even though I am absolutely in favour of revising this law, the question of second reading in this session is only about normative, we don't know, help us do what needs to be done because there are very clear rules. And let me just give you a quick answer. We are told at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that according to the rules of the European Union, the moment when the Government adopts a proposal is considered a goal and therefore it is contained in this way and is not said anywhere that it is voted in the Croatian Parliament. These are one of the rules that we were told to show that the state is going in that direction. Here's a very short answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86185	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86186	So I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from Mr. Secretary. First thing about surveillance. Well, surveillance will always be an administrative act if the legality is monitored. How can you order something to be done if it's not an administrative act, if you order and determine that the law is violated, the law is legal, it's a broken regulation, then it's an administrative act, but you have to tell it here what it is, what legal situation. You can't have that to regulate the issue of supervision by general acts and then give such an explanation, Mr. Minister, it doesn't hold legal water for you. About this part of the relationship between the Association Act and this law on student associations. You have to distinguish that there is a lex prior, lex poster, lex specialis. Then you can tell exactly what this part applies to. So according to... Well, you don't know that, obviously you don't know that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President, I'm saying this well-meaningly, don't... Please, Mr. President, colleagues don't understand each other rightly, and you understand that part. So if you want to say and determine the rules of the game, then you're going to say that students' choirs can do so in relation to this law, and other relationships are subject to the Association Act, and then you're going to explain it further, these are the improvements. We've been giving improvements, not criticism for criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86187	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86188	Dear Mr. President, last night I was among the Dominicans and the Dominicans, so Frano Prcella pointed out to me one of Jesus' sayings that I didn't, which I missed, I was already in my age. It's from Matthew's Gospel, and the saying is this, and it should be written at the entrance to this assembly: "I tell you that for every useless word they say, people will answer on the day of judgment." A very wise saying, because the number of useless words in the Croatian public, as well as in this assembly, rises from day to day towards unprecedented heights. As far as the promoter is concerned, how do you see a team who has come to defend this law shows respect for this House of Commons. State Secretary, Minister and exhausted members of the ministry. The ministry is working hard from 7am to 10pm, and it is not an accident that the minister is my former student, which I am always proud to point out in the polling "Free Dalmatia" got 3.51 and the best pass. This best passage to work in the Croatian Government is worth it and in this sense I will speak out of tradition and if you won't believe the president of our House of Higher Education and I used to be students. It's a fact that can't be challenged. So I'm going to speak from a rich tradition of student leaders in the '70s, and I'd like to say here a sad fact that there are as many in this House as we have now listed, about 15 university professors. They are mostly regular, of which only the three of us came, Professor Sabati, Professor Kramarić and my little one, so that, Marco dear, forgive me, please to heaven. So Shemso showed up and left. So one form of respect for our students should have been the presence of this very important debate on this very important law. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will say what I would like to have in it, and let the Secretary of State and the Minister decide whether to amend it. First of all, I would be glad to see in the preamble of the law a historically indisputable history of student organisation in Croatia. Both before 1914 and 914 and 918, 940 and 952 when students rebelled because of the terrible food in the student centre and 68 and 71 and 90, students contributed to the development of Croatian society, with their rebellion, with their support and democracy. So I think this law is an important step forward in a rich Croatian university tradition of organization. If this were to happen, I would be free to help make it sound so that it is appreciated that university movement 71st of the Croatian Spring, but also earlier student movements where students died in 918s because they rebelled against practically past the decision of this High House to join Croatia's former, then the former dungeon of the Croatian people of the Kingdom, first Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. This law has many good elements and I will single out what are good elements and which direction would possibly need to be completed. The first good element is volunteering. Voluntary organisation should otherwise be taken as the starting point of future legislative changes. You today have mandatory memberships that travel hands to, say, Croatian entrepreneurs, as you Mr. Ministers and State Secretary have suggested that students have the right to freedom and volunteer association should abolish mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, one... the organisation that does, has mandatory membership, it gets its membership fees and therefore has nothing to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you don't have a mandatory membership, you have to do your best. Therefore, the provision to be a voluntary membership is a great achievement of this Law. As far as the title is concerned, it calls the law I'd be much happier if it was called the Law on Student Associations, that student associations were a generic term. As far as the idea of a choir is concerned, even though yesterday in a debate with the secretary of state, I showed a steady degree of understanding according to tradition, I think the concept of a choir points to extraordinary opportunities, meaning some kind of discipline, discipline. It should therefore, because it is essentially parliamentary democracy that calls it the Law on Student Assembly and other types of organisation or simply the Law on Student Associations where the association would be a generic concept and then different types of organisation and freedom of organisation at the university would be. It seems termologically irrelevant, however, I assure you that a useful tradition is being created which revives the tradition of gathering in Croats, because otherwise the institutions of this type like this one are usually called out here, the names of these institutions from the gift of speech are being derived, and it is talking about parliaments, but it was difficult for the Croats to gather themselves together in one place, so we revived the Parliament as an institution, so we had cultural, church assemblies, student assemblies, and this Parliament here, and in that sense, even the Russian concept of the spirit points to the opinion and to speaking as a starting point, and we were not able to freely add ourselves together in one place, even to think. In that sense, I'd like it to happen. It's a very good idea to make a negative provision on who can lead the students. There really are students professionals. At the time of communism they were, there was a common statement "we young", so we were young until '45. A year. Therefore, it is good to introduce that only regular and successful students must be or may be in the lead. Of course someone will come forward and say it's a restriction of freedom or constitutional right to choose, that a man is elected if he doesn't lose his student status. However, I would support you in that. There are very bad students who do some kind of dictatorship, mediocrity at universities. Of course, even the best students if they don't play sports, if they don't have a neat social life, if it won't help an old lady cross the road there won't be any good student leaders. I'd like that criterion introduced. And finally we have one wealth, the luxury of life, the talent of life. The other day I was at a magnificent concert on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the European Union, and you were there, and here's the daughter of our colleague Caparin, she belongs to a pianist, a brilliant pianist, but the other day I was at a debate club of Croatian young talent. In the final competition in English where the daughter of our distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic participated, who shows that future generations will be better than us and there were 8 people who have shown that they deserve to be invited to this High House, to hold one of the next speech contests in the presence of all of us Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament here to see how these young people brilliantly and essentially debate, unconsciously sticking to the sayings that "I tell you that people for every useless word they say will respond on the day of judgment". They don't say useless words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86189	Thank you very much. I can see from the counsel's smiles that this was an encouraging debate. Only maybe I wouldn't agree a little bit if the young were just 45 years old, I'd extend it a little bit. Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86190	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President, this is in a series of brilliant debates of fellow Slaven Letica. This isn't an exception, it's a rule with him, and I'm really surprised how brilliant the philosopher is. I knew he was a good sociologist, a good economist, but here I see he's also a great philologist. But what actually provoked me to report is exactly the idea that I was trying to spin here that really this law has to promote it to open, actually create an ambience at our universities for the culture of political dialogue, that there really is no need for such an important institution as the Croatian university and that nothing really happens there. Wise and smart people like Slaven Letica of me would say where freedom begins. Where fear ends, and we really need to enable young people to freely articulate, even those attitudes that we disagree with. I am afraid that so far the laws were just going to euthanize, to actually reduce that possibility, i.e. to increase the amount of fear, and it is no wonder then that these universities were almost in any way vegetative and were not in any dramatic way whatsoever, and as my colleague Letica managed to show, I was held back only in the 60s and 70s, and indeed this, Croatian potential, revolutionary potential, was present for the whole 20th century and has greatly helped to articulate an original Croatian, democratic, authentic political thought that we do not actually inherit at any time. So I would say, here's my replica going in that really in that, that law where you can strengthen it is exactly that possibility of it acting incentivising this critical dialogue and practicing democracy, because where it will start if not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86191	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86192	Thank you. He went too far in compliments, so I'm building on that part of his replica, but our ministry has also built very good network relations with universities around the world. We in Croatia have excellence almost at every university. It would be bad for those best to deal with politics. So they've got better things to do. But those mediocres, or as English say, mediocrity, better deal with politics and they'll be a little better than us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86193	Thank you very much. Even this statement could be viewed as self - criticism. We have another replica. Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate to an esteemed colleague, Professor Letica, who had one let's say, a very encouraging speech. But he would look back at three things he said. First, he rated the ministry's work. You're relying on the "Free Dalmatia" grade. So then you talked about the overspoken word, the same thing. And you were saying, in my opinion, a very important thing about professional students. Or we could say now about the professional presidents of student associations some, where last night we had the opportunity to watch on a local television one student who, would not want to sin on his soul, was corrosive, but so bad and so ugly we talked in general about student choirs, about rectors, insulting the minister, ministry, government and finally all of us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and we were chosen by the Croatian people to serve the people and those same students. Now these are professional presidents of various associations or what I did last night... with his wife said, these are the kamikazes of one political option in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[And we know which one it is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86195	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86196	Unfortunately, I didn't see the mentality of these fighters. They are often bad students, although you have bad students who are encyclopaedic. One of my colleagues, and he was called, he practically started studying all directions at the Faculty of Philosophy, didn't finish anything. But he's a wonderful man and he has a successful life. Therefore, it is not, the value of your remark is in the following, that only the last days have we come up with the thesis that I was talking about here, that we must demystify civil society. You can see that in the Council of Croatian Television, the representatives of civil society are physically accounted for. You now have a situation to say you have eclectic conflicts of interest, I think this team of Gazid. He's a civil servant, and he's in our Assembly Committee on Civil Control of the Intelligence Community. You have an advisor in the Office of the President of the Republic, my college colleague who's in the HO. You've got a member of the H.O. who's now an advocate of a brewery in the fight against a man who was killed as a victim of that brewery poisoning. I was told yesterday by my colleague Ivan Zvonimir Cicak, a student leader from '71. I have an obligation to say that you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86197	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Maria Byte's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86198	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen! Students are certainly an intellectual and creative foundation for the future of Croatian peoples and Croatian states. Therefore, I will support the proposal for a law on a student assembly that improves opportunities and facilitates their organisation. The role of the student assembly is to represent and represent students in the bodies of the University of University, University institutions, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and all state bodies in which students are discussed and issues important to students. The student assembly is a non-political and non-party organization and is completely independent in its activities. According to an existing law that has been in force for ten years and according to which students have been members of the student assembly, the purpose of the new bill is voluntary membership in the student assembly so as not to burden their right to free association of citizens. The student assembly is formed as a representative body of students at the level of components of the University, the University and the University of Higher Education but without legal personality. The conditions for members of the student assembly are prescribed and all students are available, including after a graduation study for running and for the election of their members. The Croatian Student Assembly is also established, which at the level of the Republic of Croatia as a coordinating body, coordinates the work of all student choirs, and takes care of the conditions and possibilities in which they operate. Student organisations and associations acquire their status by enrolling in student organisations at the University of Higher Education. Within the framework of student interests in the area of Higher Education of Science, Culture, Sports, Ecology and the like, they gather in student associations. Taking into account the autonomy of the University and the academic self-government of the Higher Schools, most of the student assembly's work issues will be regulated by general acts. The bill facilitates the possibility of student organisations and increases the quality of their representation and provides support for the integration of higher schools. The High School would oversee the legality of the work and general acts of student organisations. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the State budget for 2007 provided the necessary funds of 8 million and 100 thousand kuna for the regular activities of Veleučište, Higher Schools and University. And funding of student organisations is being implemented from the higher education budget. It is therefore necessary to spend the budget on purpose only. The bill establishes an institution of a student lawyer to care for students' rights. And as we have already heard, students, students' representatives and representatives of the High Schools participated in the draft law on the student assembly, and he also received support from the rectorial assembly, which is an additional recommendation to the bill. So I will support its adoption because every investment in students is, in fact, the creation of security and investment in the independence of the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86199	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Byte said that I don't think any of us are arguing that we should introduce an institution of the student attorney. However, if we look at what this Ombudsman is doing, then what he is doing, which are his rights, duties and opportunities to work within the University is really small. Article 17, which speaks of the student Ombudsman, speaks mainly of some kind of strict measures and procedures towards students. The round table held in Varazdin was held by the Forum of Young SDPs, where they were representatives and students' choirs from Varazdin, where two of the high institutions on which the student assembly exists and operates. They are dissatisfied with the responsibilities of the student attorney. So, however, the rights and opportunities should be extended by doing so and the influence of the student lawyer, because here if we say that the student lawyer receives complaints and that he can discuss with someone, for example, what is the possibility that the student lawyer should be present on some examination that in the right way from this text of the law it is not really seen. The sublegislative regulations may resolve this but most often students are embittered by the criteria in the exams that exams are not public and everything else in which the counsel or someone else will be present in the exams and indeed find that something is wrong. Therefore, I personally believe that it should extend the responsibilities of the student lawyer, not to let it be in some general act of the university or anything but if we trust him to extend his authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86201	Mrs. Maria Byte's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that we agree on the adoption of this law and that it is necessary and that we agree there. And that is what is really important and that we know that students are those who are the future, one sure future of the Croatian people in the intellectual sense. And as for the student lawyer, he really should worry about the rights of students and, as he says, receive complaints and discuss them. I'm going to say something now that may not come across your approval but personally, I accept this division of defenders that Croatia has and probably smarter than me and more capable of me in that section have determined to do so and I can accept those areas. I would personally like to have an attorney general and in his portfolio that everything that comes under it is. I think it would be more rational, but in this part of it, really, when we turned to the creation of all the institutions that cover lawyers from gender equality, I believe that in that part, and also for disabled people, I think that students should also have their own defender and that he will find his own part-time work and that he will help in that part of the students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86203	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86204	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. If the Croatian university is a place where knowledge and skills are acquired, then of course it is a place where the generators of Croatia's future are created from social, economic and in-house aspects. Of course, when we say that this is where the Croatian future is then created, we think of that good side of the future because history is also abundant in the facts they speak and that rightly suggest that the way to edit this aspect of social life such as student life, the regulation of relations in universities is almost crucial for every country. He's a generator so I can say possible good and possible what's a little less good. Still in, colleagues often returned and called on history as a witness to the facts they had spoken. I'm just going to say that even in the book of Mr. Araba "The Framework for Hate" is exactly the system of knowledge and education brought about by social problems that were crucial to the creation and not so narrow images of these times. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the student assembly is rightly causing a great deal of interest to anyone who wants to discuss it or who wants to get involved in this debate. Of course, the goal is that the basic purpose of this is for those who expect the most of it. For this reason, the debate should focus primarily on the problems that those students, all of them and all of us who were in those benches, on the reasons why these problems were created and on the reasons for the inability that some of the problems have not been resolved to this day. The challenges simply remained the same. Of course, society aims to increase the percentage of those who gain knowledge, skills, and then return to society by applying in everyday life. Of course, this law tries to correct those normative shortcomings that the previous law had in its form that it simply was without any selection and priori imperative for all students and all by the nature of the law were members. Of course, this solution that leaves space for forms of action and including students is far better. Well maybe it's not better because I think it's better than probably what students and those rights think, as well as other rights or other ways that they think they should come up with that part of their life that can be four years, five, six years depending on their references and those forms of studies that they opted for. I think those rights should be fully respected. What I would say in a practical way to look at this law, is that those doubts that can often be characterized as the material position of students often make up the most important segment of quality of relations and ultimately generates the largest number of problems around them. Namely, the material position of all students and the family of students is not the same. This results in different different different different differentiations which, of course, are negative for students. Therefore, the elitism and privilege that can in some ways be found in certain segments needs to be pointed out as little as possible not to say not to allow, although in elitism can exist when it comes to knowledge and skills and something positive. However, there is certainly no positive in privilege. And when it comes to the work and management of dorms as one material background of our students, I think it should really strengthen the system of justice, equality, a system of non-privilegedness and a system of social sensitivity, which is often especially for students who come from so-called. The province. And of course Zagreb as a headquarters or Split or any other city as the seat of certain positions is always in a way different from that and those who often have social reasons why they are in such a position. Therefore, the unification of standards and criteria that should be absolutely represented not only through the student lawyer but through the action of the overall student assembly from all segments of the choir should give a stronger mark to the interests of students especially those socially recognizable structures. The structures they simply have are the only way they can study. Because justice comes from this standard whether that child who has the potential, who has the will, who simply seeks to gain knowledge, whether this society will enable him to gain and gain that knowledge, or, unfortunately, at the very beginning, will cut him down and from it, instead of the one who will contribute to the development of society, create a man who will either become a problem or see society in the negative sense from which that targeted thought will not be born that everyone must contribute to the creation of higher values. I think that is precisely why and what my colleagues pointed out should strengthen the position of the Ombudsman whether this, strengthening the position of a student lawyer given his double role to say so and in a double role that the student assembly president will play in relation to his professors and the way they will interact with each other. Whether this relationship in that cultural sense will eventually be crystallized as a relationship between the two partners who defend the common goal or if you are too loud, you will feel it when you value your knowledge. Therefore, this one character must, of course, be normably difficult to control or set, but it must primarily find its place to protect the dignity and the student defender and president of the Student Assembly and all those who participate in the creation and exercise of their own right of students. Of course, this student's own right will often endanger those other institutions. But just one culture of reflection and culture dialogue cannot be replaced by dry expressions that need to find a normative place in the law. Therefore, the public, public voice and these discussions here and the seriousness to be approached by these topics should be an additional indication that the relationship between students and teachers with all the natural differences that exist must be achieved as a dialogue relationship. And I think we should consider the issue of surveillance, the question of the registration quota. Of course the registration quota, and we said it was a matter of wisdom, decisions and so on. However, that wisdom did not often show itself equally quality in the sense of wisdom at all universities. I know it's hard to get into registration quotas and standardize them. But that should be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86205	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragan Primorac is also on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only briefly explain one thing that I think is important. So from everything we discussed in the article of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, in Article 4 where autonomy is very clear about academic self-government, where they are defined to detail the responsibility of higher universities in the Republic of Croatia and therefore the reason why we cannot go into further normisation, allow me just a few words about the student attorney because we have dealt with this in particular and it was, and colleague Lugarić said very nicely about it because at one stage of life she was a student lawyer. The term of the student lawyer we took is about that tradition that exists at universities that are already 15 or 20 years old. What they call a "student ambustion". When we entered the debate with the students and you saw it lasted almost a year and a half then they insisted on these very articles of the law. Of course, it was clear to them that the latter is extremely important because it defines the specificity of every university that says that, in addition to receiving complaints from students concerning their rights and discussing them, the competent authorities of the University of Higher Education, to advise students on the exercise of their rights. So that he can participate in strict proceedings against students in the protection of their rights. It's this student responsibility. It also performs others after the General Act of the University of Higher Education, because it is precisely that diversity in higher universities that has given the academic community full support to this law. Today the question of exams and you know yourself as a teacher that they are absolutely public. It's a practice that today, you have a series today, at least I know in medicine that on exams that are public and open to the public can come but everyone can be in some cramp maybe they don't want to come. But what is extremely important to say is that a student lawyer can absolutely as such participate in any controversial exam, and what could the Ministry have done about it? The ministry has made it very clear in the drafting of this law that it will even review all the allowances to those high schools that do not allow the establishment of an institution of attorneys within the legal period. It shall provide them with the right space to work, co-finance their activities and administrative technical assistance in Article 17(4). Very clearly. And I'll tell you what we talked about earlier. It is that the student lawyer, in accordance with all possibilities at any time, can request both administrative supervision and review the function of the university's work, the higher institution and wherever it comes from. And it's actually I'd say one maximum capacity that a student attorney can get at this point. We when we talked to the students, Professor Taker, actually they said that's it. Anything else that would go... It entered this category which we definitely cannot distinguish because it says "it also does other tasks established by the General Act of the University of Higher Education that differ between the university and the university." Here is one short answer that I hope at least succeeded, that it has managed to meet this need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps here is the most important Mr. Vice President to point out this importance, which is the connection of certain acts, the connection of supervision remains very clear as supervision that it is not an administrative procedure, that supervision is still left to this Law on Higher Education, that the ministry is doing full supervision if necessary and therefore I would say even to introduce a strict procedure to those who say that we no longer respect the law we have no more space without jeopardising the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy of the university or academic self-government defined in Article 4(4) and paragraph 5. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86207	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here, after a whole series of discussions and after the inspired debate of our colleague Dr Letica, who pointed to some fundamental questions as to why the Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations should be supported, certainly because it is one of the segments in the reform of education and the regulation of student action. During this fourth year, high education reforms have been intensively created and created. Since 2004, I will recall all the legal, institutional assumptions for the implementation of the "Bolonja Process". Today, the minister also noted several colleagues. It should be recalled that in July 2004, it was adopted in this Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, that we established in the procedure Friday the re-amendments and additions of this law that will really improve the activities and work of scientific activities. After that, a national follow-up group was appointed "The Bologna Process". The National Council for Higher Education, the National Council for Science, was also appointed, and was eventually set up by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. In the middle of 2005, it also completed the reconstruction of existing and preparation of new study programmes. What is very important is what needs to be highlighted and we are grateful to this ministry that it started on the basis of the requirements of smaller environments to set up expert studies to encourage exactly employment and needed jobs in smaller areas. Here's why I said it in the introduction. First of all, because all these reforms must contribute to student action reforms. The student assembly was founded in late '96. the year the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Student Assembly. The first elections were held in 1996/'97. And since then nothing has changed in the work or decision-making of the student choir. We now have before us a bill that is in line with the new requirements of higher education. Very important, and almost all participants in today's debate stressed that they are also giving importance to the fact that this proposal, the proposal of this law, was made by representatives of the student assembly, representatives of higher schools, and is also supported by the rectorial assembly. The passing of this law should be supported because, as we have heard today, several times this 1997 law has not resolved any important issues. The proposed law, which is before us, provides, above all, the fundamental and significant for all students, which is free association with student organisations and associations that are formed and for the satisfaction of their cultural, sports and professional interests and voluntary association with the student assembly. The student assembly is the representative body of students. It allows students to organise a student assembly at their high school. So they were left with the full right to choose whether to organise themselves into a student assembly or not. The importance of the student assembly is unnecessary to point out that it is certainly an organization that monitors and promotes the interests of students. The Croatian student assembly is a roof body, a body that will care for the work of other student assemblies, coordinate joint programmes, manage activities in international co-operation, represent students in front of public authorities, state authorities. So, in front of the ministries, the bodies responsible for students, worry about the conditions in which student choirs operate and cooperate as I said with the restoring roof ministry – in this case the Ministry of Science. This bill also ensures better quality of representatives in the student assembly. Conditions for members of the student assembly are prescribed. Equal availability is guaranteed for all students. So they're involved in the work of the student choir and students after graduation studies. A candidate for members of the student assembly through the elections is being held through electoral lists, which has not been done so far. According to the bill, students can join and establish associations and other organisations because of their cultural, sports, professional and other interests. They get student enrolment status at the high school where they operate. This is very important and very important because in this way and supervision of the work and general acts and the student assembly and these other organisations will perform a high school on which they operate, and the higher school controls the dedicated spending of budgets as funding is implemented from the higher school budget. Today, the minister also explained the way in which this funding is financed, and it does not mean that only autonomously high universities will be able to oversee the work of both student associations and the student assembly. Taking into account the autonomy of universities and higher universities, the general instruments of the universities and the statutes of the student assembly have been left to further regulate the issues of how to conduct the elections, the bodies of the student assembly, the financing of work and programmes, and other important issues for their action. The news in the bill of law is here now the minister has just explained why and how the introduction of a student lawyer who cares about the rights of students. The novelty is also the draft law and election date for the student assembly, which from the beginning of November, so the winter semester, according to this proposal, moves the new one to the summer semester in March, in that second half of March, which would certainly include giving democratic rights to students of the first year to participate equally with other students in the student assembly elections. So, I think once again this law should be supported. We all agreed today in the debate. He's going to solve a lot of student issues. Perhaps they will also start those excellent, good ones, as fellow Letica of self-secret students said to engage in resolving student issues through a November choir or even through student organisations and associations that will operate at higher universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86209	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86210	I am correcting the alleged respected colleague Roksandic from the very beginning of her presentation when she said it was in this mandate that it all began, and she said among other things that the implementation of the Bologna Process began with the adoption of the law in 2004. That's incorrect, that's what the minister himself said in the opening statement. A law that allowed higher education reform was passed in 20003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86211	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Krono Peronja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86212	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is just another bill before us that tells us about one dynamic, dynamic work of the Croatian Parliament that harmonizes and prepares and adopts new laws in order to really facilitate any kind of work, action and in this November and scientific discipline. The proposal for a Law on the November choir and other November organisations is the right way to regulate and improve exactly the activity that can be arranged by nomotechnical action. Before this bill, a 10-year-old law had the time to change. He did not respond to those challenges, which is why it is the best way to fix issues that are currently current and that will guide the future of Croatian universities and Croatian studies. It is certain, among other things, that the lack of the current law still in force that the high school enrolment itself has become members of the student assembly, which is one restriction on the right to free citizens' decision. It's voluntary now. Elections are also being organised to enable, indeed, the most important right to be chosen and able to be elected in that part. Also, associations are not well-resolved because it is precisely difficult to establish and run a single and transparent development policy that has also appeared in terms of funding for students' associations. In particular, it was a problematic November presentation that was solved in a complicated way, through a multitude of different delegations, which time had run over long ago. A step forward has also been the presentation of the November choir of the 2003 Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. The approaches that clearly and unequivocally regulate this problem are complex in 21 articles, and for these very reasons it is necessary to support an emergency procedure because they are very precisely the nomotechnically modernized most important institutes. The principles of the student organisations are precisely voluntary and also enables the student organisations to make an autonomous availability of funds for their work on the accounts of the higher school. And high-school leaders are obliged to ensure the legality of the work of the November choir. And one of the most important tasks of the student choir, for example, are mentioned here, I will point out what I can, represent students in front of higher education bodies and public authorities, to elect student representatives to the Senate and other bodies of the university, and to the councils and other bodies of other higher universities, and which has increased the number of just such representatives. It is also possible to appoint a student lawyer on a normal deadline, which is a year to allow students to take responsibility for their own development into their own hands. They worry and participate in decision-making in the quality of the study process, the November standard. Of course the bodies of the November choir are very precise and consistent with other acts harmonize. The term of office of members of the student assembly takes two years and it is very clear that he will not be able to be a member if he repeats the year during the same level of study and if he has not collected a minimum of 60 points. Such a link was also made in the article 6 and 14 where it is said that a student can not be applied for another year during the same level of study, which is one of the most important incentives to study regularly, to complete his studies quickly so that the young man who was employed can be really emancipated as soon as possible. The very precise elections say they take place between March 15th and 13th, just at a time when at least despite the Bologna process of activity in the regular study. What would also be worth pointing out is exactly how the headquarters and mode of work of the November choir is defined, that it has a seat in a place where the seat of a higher school is located. And the Croatian student choir has its headquarters at the higher school whose student is president of the Croatian Student Assembly. Another step in decentralisation and such functions will indeed contribute that such seats in different cities depend on whose student is president of the Croatian Student Assembly. There's nothing left to do with the case. And if the president doesn't call for a session, he'll do it by 1/4 of the November choir so he doesn't obstruct the work of that body. And supervision of the work of students’ organizations in Article 13 has been arranged in the best possible way to enable the work of students’ organisations that are public to be and supervised in every respect. I particularly stress that you can finance yourself from trusts, foundations and donations, not all of them from budget funds. Of course, no emphasis on high school head's strict responsibility has been avoided, and just as nomotechnically well-organized according to the general act of the higher university. Of course, the transitional and final provisions have left long enough for all to prepare for the elections. And I'm just surprised what some previous speakers say is that the usual work of the administration is that it's taking longer. The clearly set deadlines here say that it is necessary to speed up the activities that should be met, and not maintaining the deadlines certainly if there is no sanctions then there is political sanctions of elections or misunderstandings in the bodies that provide for this law. This law could not have been better because it had just had a large number of students, especially the Split and Zagreb universities, showing one breadth and democracy to feel the very interest of those for whom this law is cited, and the seriousness of the approach speaks to the team who is here with Mr. Minister, who are consulting each other at any moment to give valid and concrete answers to the most important matter that we need to solve. That is why this law should be passed, but voted tomorrow, because let's not wait until the time and say why we didn't bring it in and constantly question the work of our excellent and good administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86213	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86214	Thank you very much. I must rephrase to Mr. Peronja, unlike him, who, explaining and supporting the passing of the law by emergency procedure,... how this modern and precisely nomotechnically regulated law is. Mr. Peronja, it's simply not true. If you read Article 18 for violation of the provisions of this law, the high school head shall be subject to strict responsibility in accordance with the general act of the higher school. Well, I guess some other responsibilities should be for breaking the law. So you tell me please tell me how well, if within 15 days, because you said there are precise deadlines. If within 15 days of the declaration of a valid student election, the high school head does not establish a student assembly, which is punishable for it. He directly violates the law, violates the rights of students. I'd like to hear what very strict measures these are. It doesn't get in the autonomy of the university if someone gets punished for not implementing the law. And you said the deadlines were clear. No, they're not. At the end of the great number of student choirs in Croatia, long ago, deadlines were due to be held and a new election should be selected. We can only ask the government why she didn't come before with a bill of this law, because if the deadlines are said to be by the end of March, we are now aware of it by the time we vote it, until it's published in "The People's Newspaper" it will all spread like gum and there is no choice before the beginning of September. And you're talking about the precise deadlines. It's just, unfortunately, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86215	Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86216	Just like this precise set of deadlines... So there is a school where you specify exactly what and how to react. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] This act cannot and should not be resolved but without touching the autonomy of the university that brings its own acts are also provided for sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86217	Replica Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86218	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I must replicate, because it seems to me that we do not have the same legal texts in front of us, that you have some other text from me and that we have discussed the problem of Article 13 of the student organisations' work and at the session of the Committee on Legislatives where you have been. And we all agreed that these provisions are not necessary and that the issue of supervision of labour law cannot be regulated as such by a general act. Controlling surveillance means having authority. If you have found that something is illegal, that it is not in accordance with the law and the following regulations, then there should be an opportunity to react, and the possibility of reacting which the minister probably misunderstood is making a solution. It's inspection, it's got administrative surveillance, it's got inspection. And the Ministry of Administrative Oversight then the solution is made by the Minister, if it is an inspectional supervision, the inspector is brought as an individual, and you have not resolved that, and I say only in this part of it, I propose this improvement as well as that this relationship of this law and the Law on Associations is precisely determined, and it is very easy to regulate it in view of Article 11 of the Student Association and of the other organisations, and it is precisely said to the student associations that the Law applies to this and that, and it is all clear then. So it's important for us to get a really good law where there won't be any dispute in the implementation. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86219	Answer, Mr. Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86220	I'll point out one more time, I believe we have the same bill. It is the supervision of the legality of the work and of the general acts of student organisations that performs high school according to its general act, which is then subject to and administrative supervision of either ministry, whether the inspectorate. It wouldn't hurt to explain it a little bit more, but this solution is actually modern, it tends to be concise and precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86221	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86222	So I'm kind of continuing on this discussion in the replicas that it was, because it seems to me that colleague Peronja in your presentation has a large number of illogicalities. On the one hand, you claim that everything is specified, determined and you are saying that this accuracy and accuracy within the deadlines are allowed to be held in this summer semester and you are talking about it affirmably. The deadlines are for the election for 120 days. From 1 April 120 days is the first of October, and the academic year in this regard ends until the test deadlines start on 15 June. According to where the deadlines are accurately determined there are responsibilities, but this does not allow what you said that precisely because of these and such deadlines the elections happen in this summer semester. I mean it's elementary math, six months from the third month is ten, not five or not know which.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86223	Answer, Mr. Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86224	It is of course necessary to read very carefully this text on deadlines, article 15 of the elections, and I will read it: Elections for high-school student choirs, members and deputies are held as a rule. This rule has one exception that speaks precisely in Article 19(5) where elections for student choirs under this law will be held within 120 days of the date of entry, because this deadline should be stated mainly because a new law is passed and the new law should specify exactly what it is said, ever since these first elections have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86225	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just two more brief comments. So, two months exist for harmonising the statutes, which means it could be a month. 120 days are 4 months, i.e. 2 months are foreseen by law, after that 2 months if necessary to conduct the elections. The theoretical thing that we've been stimulating to individual universities that show great interest in practically anything can be done, the whole process in two to three months. So today and in a situation practically that today is talking to rectors and deans. But let me just have one more thing that's about this basic law on high-school scientific activity, because it's not, we may have been wrong, we should have delivered it to everyone, so it would be easier for you to be held accountable. Some new moments that are extremely important as Mr. Peronja said concern the article 57th rector's responsibility, a completely new moment in Croatian higher education that says in accordance with the statutes of the university rector of the university may, in the statutes established cases of non-compliance with the law, other rules of status or upon them, even suspend the dean, which has never been in Croatian universities until the adoption of this Law. So you have three elements and a fourth element, which is also contained in Article 104 of that same Law, which say a step deeper teachers and co-workers are closely responsible for the violations of their work and other obligations in their work with him, as well as for the brutal violation of the reputation of high school according to the statute. It can only be held responsible for a work that, at the time, starts at the general act of the higher school, was intended as a stupendous work that we have just done. So you have three elements legal, from the basic law, from the new law, because it's practically those who don't respect them that have to fit both closely and in other processes. And this about the rector's responsibility in running the whole process absolutely needs to be taken into account because this has given the Croatian universities another vision within their autonomy and responsibility to the heads of the institute high, no matter how difficult it may seem at this time academic, but exactly the rector can suspend the high school dean under the new law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86227	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86228	Well, Mr. Secretary wrongly said it was the law. It's about the bill passed by a government that hasn't come to the Parliament yet, which hasn't come to the Parliament yet, and it's possible that it can be changed. So we can't talk about something that's just gonna happen, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86229	The existing law is done whether or not. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives, I would certainly like to help further improve this Bill proposal, especially with a reason why it will not go into the second reading, so allow me to mention a few more reasons that are very important to me. First, I must warn once again that these deadlines are quite awkward because a lot of things are being done, and it is very easy to see that much is being recorded as to how they will be resolved by a general act of higher education. A number of articles have established this. So all of this should be taken together as a need for very serious and studio-high universities to approach the change of their statutes, which is a process that lasts. I'm afraid it's not good already, if we've already found for this year that it's 120 days these 60 days seem a little short. But, well, let's leave it all together on the souls of high school leaders who'll have to spend it. I'd also like to, I'll go through these articles slowly. I would also like to mention that the high-school obligations are quite large. Article 3(3) states that it is necessary to make it possible for student organisations to make available autonomously the means for their work on the accounts of the higher school in accordance with the law and the general act of the higher school. Of course, for a student assembly, it is not at all questionable, but if it is a student association, I am still referring here to a debate under which those laws will be governed by whether the citizens' association can have its own jury budget. Because it can, in addition to, of course, get funds from the higher school budget from other sources, and now it turns out here that it will have to have its own resources as some subcalculation of a higher school. I just want us to be completely accurate here because of high schools first of all. I mean, I have to say here that we're all saying that with this bill, we've all agreed to a rectorate, rectorate, probably Senates of individual universities, etc., colleges and students. I had a lecture on Monday, I asked the students, about a hundred of them were at a lecture, what do you think of this bill, no one had a clue about the law. So it's the guilty representatives, I don't believe it's the guilty minister, it's understood, but I'm just saying that maybe if more of them were involved maybe they'd give some things different. I have here and remarks and students, we discussed at the university a little bit about this bill and we really want it to be as high-quality as possible. So one of the remarks is whether these student associations of citizens will definitely be exclusively... the general instruments of the higher education or, however, they will be able to be financed independently under the Association Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 6 where it speaks of the bodies of the student assembly, paragraph 2 says the student assembly may have the presidency and other bodies provided for by the statute of the student assembly. Well, that's understandable, given the maximum possibility of them getting organized, but I'm just repeating I wouldn't want us to have too much charm in all this together, or I'd like as many students as possible to be involved. At this point, if we do not have a student assembly, it is still a relatively small number of students who will be involved in solving these problems through their mandate, and how they will communicate with other students. Of course, that's where we as advocates find our own ways of communicating with voters, but it's not exactly the same. Students there, there are 2,000 of them in one college or 5, 6 thousand, depending on the size and how they will communicate if there is a relatively small number in that student choir. That's why I think more about the number of students, how to include them so that they can have a presidency here, that they can erase the word. Well, he's got to have a presidency. So as many of these students get involved. I repeat it once again, even though I said it on behalf of the club but I ask you to think carefully, so there won't be any problems. Paragraph 3 of that same article, therefore, when it comes to the bodies of the student assembly, where this repeat of the second year is repeated. I think that should be defined precisely after all. For me it would be more acceptable to standardize only by not acquiring a certain number of ECTS points through a certain period of time. Remembers 60 ECTS points. I also join those who feel that it should be regulated in some way or that those who are better students and are more interested in their rights and have greater advantages. But I repeat, is that exactly how it's supposed to be written? It is also a good thing that the paper is in this law, no one has spoken of it, where elections are said to be held for a new student assembly member. It wasn't a practice until now. I just wanted to say that the elected student representative has often failed to carry out their duties and could not be changed in some way. So this provision introduced these newspapers, so that they can be conducted in some way extraordinary elections, which would certainly be good. In the Statute of the Student Assembly, I think that it should, however, be written there in paragraph 2., subparagraph 2, 4, 5. How to elect a student representative in the bodies of the University of Higher Education. I might say regulate the way the mandate ends, let it say so in the Statute. I repeat the composition of the student choir, I think we should standardize this law, because everything is more or less left to the Statute, and that can cause great charm. And funding the work of the student assembly, student associations and other student organisations in Article 12. Although mentioned earlier, it is financed from the High School budget at which the student assembly operates. I repeat, however, it should be a little more precise here to determine how many, some colleges I would say more importantly, to single out that amount of funds is questionable, no. All he's saying is he's just co-financed. In what amount, what percentage to think about? Does that change something or not? So I'm not saying it has to be, but it might be useful, because some colleges will have maybe more understanding, it'll make it more possible for the student choir to work. I've got some knowledge, so I can maybe give you more, but I wouldn't talk here, think about it a little bit. And this. In Article 13, I repeat, when it comes to this surveillance. Less or less, only mention is the responsibility of the high school leader. All right. I don't think that's a bad deal. But I also think that we should consider how to introduce and standard the responsibility of members of the student assembly for failing to comply with their obligations. I will, of course, be pleased if some remarks from all the clubs will be respected, and of course by us individuals. Perhaps within the framework of the Ministry's amendment. Certainly, then, that would be accepted by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86231	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, one correction. The first replica is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86232	Well, just as you have said, an esteemed colleague, there has been a debate on the Committee on Legislatives, and it has been told to the motion that the amendment attempt to amend these individual provisions, because it is possible to really vary if the transitional and final provisions of Article 19 are seen where deadlines are prescribed when what is to be done for the adoption of these regulations are not to be passed. Or that the regulations as such do not comply with the legal provisions. Then what? Then what? There's no answer. The answer is that it remains an old part until all preparations are made so that new elections can be held. You also do not have an accurate view of Article 14 of this general act when it will be adopted? And in what time? What if it doesn't come within the right time? Then how will you act? We have a phenomenon in Croatia that most of the law goes after the adoption of sublegal regulations. Whether those are regulations, decisions or rules depends on who is authorised. But unfortunately, the situation is such that it is likely to be slightly less than 40% brought, not at all, that we are not talking about how much it is passed within the legal deadline that Parliament has set. So obviously, if this is what we are saying well-meaningly and we want to improve, the text that will be applicable, that it will have to react to the government's amendments or accept what our position is to do today's first reading, and that we have fourteen days of second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86233	Thank you. Mr. Sabati's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, I may have talked a little bit more about it on behalf of the club, but certainly there are several articles in this bill that mention that some details will be addressed by the General Acts of the University of Higher Education. But there's a lot of it. I mean, let's be objective. I wouldn't want it to be because the statutes have to be changed, and then the Senate's consent should be obtained, that if by any chance something goes wrong, so it comes back, then I'm afraid that there will be no deadlines for you to be respected. And because of that, I think, you should think about how you or your deadlines somehow adjust a little bit or definitely go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86235	Replica, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Sabati seems to have touched on me yet an extremely important issue, it's a matter of funding student choirs and associations. If we look at Article 11(5), it is said that student associations and other organisations will be financed according to the possibilities. It's a rather stretching term and I'd like to be explained and I think we should define more precisely what these possibilities are. In particular, since Article 12(2) speaks to a third country whose work I am told that the work of student associations and other organisations can also be financed from the share in the incomes of legal persons intervening in student employment. We need to be aware of the application of the Bologna Process, students will have fewer and fewer opportunities to work. They will be more engaged within their study. Therefore, if they want to score points or score points, there must be far more work to be done. In addition, we know that the student centres, except for the honorable exceptions such as the barbaric ones, are lost. From which source we think it will then be further stimulated and further rewarded. I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister and the team to tell us if they have any projections that are being presented in the frameworks of individual universities. Then we can talk seriously. This way, it should, it's nothing. And in the end, it seems to me that we are still on the right track. We have responsibility here only on paper, it is subject to some general regulations and it is necessary to prescribe responsibility under the law, then we will all probably and more seriously take into account the enforcement of the conditions or individual provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86237	... Sabati. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Every part of this law has its weight, and that's why he's so much I'd say and shortened that he might be more understandable. This part about funding the work of the student choir, associations and other student organisations is quite enough I would say let’s even say thoroughly written because it is mentioned that it can be financed from the budget of the university, university or higher schools, from foundations, foundations, donations, from the share in the income of legal persons who intercede in student employment and from other sources etc. And yet on the other hand we say that the student assembly and other student organisations without legal personality have the means for their work within the framework of... High school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So besides the high school budget, they will have other sources and in some ways they may not be able to use them at their own request. So that, in my opinion, might have something to do with this, for this relationship with the Association Law, too, to be more precise. I certainly wouldn't speak and comment further on these responsibilities that I've talked about before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86239	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In order for this debate to be complete, Mr. Sabati, who was of great quality, I'm just going to have one more fact. I personally found myself called that. When I spoke on behalf of the club, I didn't say that all the student associations, so I'll quote my words. The passing of this law by emergency procedure is supported by a student assembly, a number of student associations and a rectorial assembly. Just so it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86241	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just calling to prove that we've been working as a team for no other reason. Of course, Mr. Secretary could have said this. Two things. First, when it comes to funding a student choir, there is no uncertainty about it. The student assembly under this law must be financed from the level of university and the university is also governed by law but not by this bill but by the applicable Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education for months now acting according to the principle of "lanes". So there is no direct funding of the university or parts of the university from the ministry, but the university as a whole, and the student segments of the university, according to this principle, are all financing it. Student associations shall be financed in accordance with the possibility of a given higher education. And so there's this relativism, and that's the difference, regardless of whether it's a student association, so it's a legal person who's formed outside of high school, and who acts by the law by which it's established, by the law of associations or by the law of a student organisation within the college of a student club, an association, a sect or any other form that the head of a higher school has recognized as useful and considers it to be his own. Second, as regards the observations on the assets allegedly not secured for the implementation of this law, it explains that these funds are secured by an ongoing budget of the amount fully guaranteed that it can be implemented by the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86243	Thank you very much. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86244	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on the Student Assembly and other Student Organizations I see above all as a technical law on how to choose and represent students, who are the tasks of the Croatian student assembly or individual choir and certain deadlines, and more or less I do not have any objections in that sense. I think he's unambiguously even properly made. So the law in such a technical sense has nothing to object to. And even in substance what seems very important to me for the functioning of student life in Croatia is the question of whether any law can solve it at all. And that's important questions. Affirmations of students in our public life is something that we should all take care of together, for the simple reason that these are future holders of economic and general public life in our country. Students would by nature do things and, as in our rich Croatian history, even in a rich university life, students would always be students and then bearers of significant change, sometimes with greater and sometimes with less success. First of all, they are like young holders of new ideas that guarantee both better quality and better life. However, as we see the underlying problem happening and in choosing to affirm or interest young people in such a single participation, how to interest them in general in currents and social events to be active participants in these events, which through a formal way, which in some way inauguration and precision, but above all and in an informal way, is therefore to be interested in all that is happening around them. Why? So that tomorrow we can change it right in order to make a better and better life. In that sense, it seems to me to be an illustrative example of a candidate for admission to the Croatian university. The girl attended an elite college with the most excellent grades but was asked when she received the exam on quite another matter. About social events, about theater life, about cultural life in general, about sports life. She barely knew any answer to that. She was fired with an instruction: "Go girl, live and then go back to our university. We need creative people, not listeners." However, what is happening in our school is almost from early youth, which then escalates in college, at the University is precisely one of the concerns of silence. Eventually there's something louder, we heard them and it's true that they're not very good, regular students. And those who are good, who are excellent, can't be heard. It is a picture of society in general, and then such an image is reflected in the university itself. How do you change that? Certainly not in such a way as she illustrated from her own example, saying on behalf of the club, our representative, Marija Lugaric, who was warned as a student and now more in a joke, but there is probably something in every joke: "You will come to the exam". Well, even in our day, there's been more of that kind of behavior, maybe less of the courage to say it publicly. Today, you have no problem saying, "You or your colleagues will come to the exam." And that's how a young man breaks his spine. So bending the spine is something that works pretty well for us, and it's dangerous if it works in the school system so that one gymnastics is quite successful regardless of what our schools are disabled in school, forgive sports halls. Here you can see at a conference organised by the Ministry on February 22nd, 2007 so resolutely, the Ministry presented the law, announced changes that will happen on their own in terms of student representation. There was also a representative of the students. They complained precisely about the rector’s announcement of the introduction of tuition. As he will do so despite the opposition of the students and the voted student veto, it is one big announcement and one small but significant victory of the students. But the rector was deaf about it, about the express will of the students. The minister said he disagreed. And nothing else. What measures have been taken? But then the rector is justified: "We have to introduce this because of the unpaid Christmas card, and the unpaid unpaid unpaid electricity and other giving threatens to block 16 colleges." That's why the rector asked for a meeting with the minister. The public remained unknown whether it was such a meeting. So all of the reforms with us and high school and so on, and some kind of affirmation, at least the wishes for affirmation of student life begin simply by dragging their hands into the pocket of the users. Here we see it in the form of tuition. For God's sake, there's an excuse to stop eternal and long-term students. However, such a measure is quite inadequate in order to prevent such a phenomenon that has a date from long ago in our colleges. A girl just on the page of a student choir answered and said, "I can't pay, my parents can't pay 8 thousand kuna, and I can make only 5 thousand kuna over the summer." A student says, "The bill says that the student is a center of events, but living students can't secure living money," he said. "According to this," he says, "there is live money in the centre, not living students." It is now very important how the ministry will treat this problem in the first place. So unpaid bills, unpaid claims and obligations of the universities themselves and their intentions. Here are the media reports today that the rector remains unsuspecting, inexplicable in the introduction of scholarships. Here's just one example of how much the content is and how much the student's voice is heard. I like it very much, and our minister often repeats the principle of excellence, how we have extraordinary students, and that is indeed the case. But why those fives? Why these five if they compete as candidates in individual ministries or in the judiciary brilliant and excellent students are not accepted. They're being taken in by the snots. What made Amari Trgo and the Soviets Režić who were long ago decorated later by an extraordinary judge who cares? But students know that's how we behave. The students of the bologna who don't even have a chair, I'm sorry about the chair. That's something young people recognize. Maybe more than what's different between what's said and what's in life. They used to be students. This is where my colleague Letica used to say they were carriers. So it didn't matter how college choirs were formed, but they were holders of student movement. Their basic password was, "Let's be realistic, we're looking for the impossible." But today, students are impossible if they're looking for something quite real.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86245	Thank you. Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86246	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. With full awareness of the need to adopt this law and regulate this area, I regrettably must say that when I vote on this final proposal, I will be against it. Because I think he from the constitutional and legal aspect, even if you want to, and from the aspect of the development of democratic relations at the university, does not meet the minimum requirement needed. First, I object to the position this law has shown that there is actually not enough trust in students. It does not accept that student choirs have legal status, while at the same time prescribing to them the rights and obligations prescribed by this law actually means that they are placed under the constant supervision of university teachers which is seen, among other things, from the election to the issue of actually limiting part of their ha could be said business skills. I think it is totally unacceptable and from such a creation, firstly politically, secondly we must trust that population of our citizens, and thirdly we must ask them to comply with their legal rights, obligations or responsibilities and enforce the laws. Now allow me a little clarification on that. It is beautifully written, for example, in Article 12(7). I quote: “The student assembly and other student organizations have legal personality. Now I ask how it is possible to be without legal personality, if at the same time, for example, the student assembly appoints a student lawyer, represents the interests of students in front of, students or in front of the bodies of higher universities and elsewhere, cares and participates in the decision-making, etc., adopts the legal programme of the student assembly, selects student representatives in the Senate and elsewhere. So how can you represent someone, for example, and you have no legal personality as a choir? ... Oh, no, no, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There you are, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Parliament has legal personality and has the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the legislative authority. It is something else on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, and the student assembly is something else entirely. He adopts individual acts in such matters in which he has to take due account of their jurisdiction. The second thing I would like to point out in particular is that these tasks referred to in Article 5 need to be broken down into questions and where and where they appear as public powers of the student assembly and in which respect the documents that the student assembly will bring have a public right or does not have. If he doesn't have a legal personality, he doesn't have a public right, but then the question is, who's verifying it for the student choir? Otherwise someone will represent me who has less rights than I do. Which is why the student assembly should now represent student Peru if he does not have any legal personality and in fact all the acts he will do in relation to university bodies that are irrelevant. It just doesn't stand and it can't be. Third. The view cannot be allowed by students to adopt a plan and a work programme among other things, that they also lack legal personality, and then, of course, within the framework of the plan and the work programme, of course within the framework of the appropriations, they can spend these resources on their own. What's that for? How's it gonna be if they're not legal? Will the head of accounting for the spent money and the dean answer on behalf of them? I don't know. That question should certainly be considered. Fourth. The question of selecting students. It says, a special general act of the student assembly will be arranged, including an election procedure, especially. And now there's a whole series of things written amongst other things. The question arises, in fact, whether it is possible on the basis of these acts to initiate disputes for the protection of electoral rights. The truth of the will can now be done by any student. However, there are some restrictions in the law, but on that. If it can seek the protection of rights, then the question is whether the law can be established by a general act or by law. If you are reading the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, he specifically says: “The individual act of the state administration and of the public authorities must be based on the law. The judicial control of the legality and individual acts, administrative bodies and bodies having public authority shall be ensured. “ Look, we have been able to prescribe here that the commission will be able to object to five members who can protect each individual student’s electoral right. It does not have to be prescribed that they can lead and protect that right from court because it is an individual act. But the question arises is whether it is possible by this general act of the student assembly which has no legal personality to prescribe procedures and ways of holding elections for students. That's completely impossible. It's the opposite of the Constitution. It must be written and elaborated in this law. Therefore, it is simply a lack of law and should be done and arranged. Of course, I'm not going to talk about these nomo-technical cleanouts as among other things, which says the duration of the election that can't be shorter than 12 hours. It's not about the duration of the election, it's about the duration of the vote that can't be less than 12 hours. But that's different. Only on the way I mentioned it. Clearly, then, this question needs to be asked completely, quite differently, and resolved and, of course, regulated in the law on the matter. Furthermore, I would particularly like to answer as a question, this is Article 13(2), supervision of the legality of work and general acts of student organisations, performing a high school in accordance with its general act. First, whether something is legal from the point of view of the general acts is not carried out on the basis of a general act of the university or any general act of any legal person, but on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is clearly laid down as it is generally known that in the Republic of Croatia the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution and the other regulations with the Constitution and the law. Therefore, it is not possible to discuss the general act, but to discuss whether the general act is in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and then to exercise that control, the legality and the Constitutional Court, and the individual act whether the Administrative Court has been legally brought. What can do as not control the legality of the work of the shelter can do so. It's perfectly fine, and of course she can do some kind of control if it's consistent. But it can't just determine whether or not it's legal, whether it's constitutional or not an individual general act that will be passed by a student organisation. Therefore, this question must simply be asked in a different way, and in this context the question is raised, in fact, how and how these issues should be addressed in further accession. The third group of issues that need to be fully settled is the question of the statutes. What autonomy is it for university students and student choirs if their own statutes are not able to bring themselves. It says exactly in article 7. The student assembly has a statute. The Statute shall adopt a high school on the proposal of the student assembly and in the manner provided for by its general act. So why didn't you say that the students at the universities in Croatia have limited business skills and almost. They're not alike to arrange their own relationship. Well, for God's sakes, if we want some influence and university teachers and employees at colleges at the November choir, then let's sign that the November choir is making a statute with a previously obtained opinion or prior consent, whatever you want, to the universities. But it's the university that brings the statutes to the November choir. Well, if I was a student, I'd never accept it if I was working in a college choir like that. That doesn't make sense. And then here you write what it will, the general acts adopted by the November organization, and now it's still constitutionality and legality that controls universities. I think that these are things that just don't go and that can't happen, and it has to be, important, important to fix this bill or he'll fall in the Constitutional Court. Believe it will fall. It also raises a very interesting issue of these deadlines around the election. Of course, I know what the word "March 15th" means. So it usually means that whenever you can play, play. And you immediately offer in law an instrument as played. So it is said that within 60 days of the entry into force of this law, general acts will be passed, elections will be held within 120 days. It's certainly not March 15th and 20th next year. What's that for? What's that for? Come on, let's get these acts in line, get those dates in line. Let's make it exceptional if we want to, especially for this school year and for the start of the school year this time we won't be applying that deadline from March 15th to March 30th but elections will be made I don't know, in early September or the tenth month, I don't know, I don't care when and how. But don't do it like this because here you show that in fact in one law you prescribe an obligation, and in another norm, the East of the law you suggest how to play that obligation. There are still a whole series of these remarks that I could show, warn or that, for example, if we had the Bologna Process then we were talking about the November year, etc., etc. These are things that need to be resolved. As the question should be resolved whether a student who repeats the year loses his student rights or not. If he doesn't lose his student rights, you can take his political right to choose and be chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86247	Thank you very much. And finally, Secretary of State Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86248	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you once again for all the suggestions. When we hear today, and by tomorrow, we will really take a closer look at it, reviewing all suggestions and suggestions. We'd still stay on the emergency motion. We think that if we find out about any of this, we can put it into our own intervention proposals that we're going to do it. Allow several facilities, several comments regarding the discussion of Mr Arlovic's last respected representative. Studenski, the first of his remarks by the student assembly as a representative body, says he is not a legal person. And it's not and we don't think it should be. Just as it is not the Croatian Parliament, it is the Republic of Croatia, it is not the City of Zagreb Assembly, it is the City of Zagreb, it is not the City of Zagreb, it is also the City of Zagreb. I would say, if I may say freely that it is legitimacy, I say the legitimacy of the student choir to our idea, it extends our proposal to a legal aspect of its legal personality, that is, from the aspect of its legal personality alone. So the college choir is more than that, according to our concept. When it comes to the objection regarding the supervision of legality, we have received this remark on the Committee on Law, and we will, with special care during the day, take a look at it with respect indeed and the arguments that you have made. It seems to us that by formulating this, I repeat, if we need to improve it ourselves, the state has not avoided the obligation to control the legality by particularly pointing out here that the obligation to control the legality of the student organisation has a high school. Because it is a student organisation, a student assembly and other organizations and their acts are part of that system and when it controls the legality of the operation of the total higher education and the supervision of the legality of their acts, then, of course, that thing is not excluded from that obligation that the state has in this way. You're saying the November choir doesn't have autonomy, so you should have it. We think autonomy has a university and should have an autonomy university. And I'd say he can't have it, he can't consume it, he can't act, which is regulated by a whole series of laws without not only formal but also the actual participation of students, or exactly the student delegations, so those who in law delegates the November home, the student choir, forgive me. In this regard, and on the proposal of students, students are also the statutes of the student choir of an integrated higher school where I repeat once again the students are an integral part of us seem logical to be brought to the level of higher education, not the organisation itself. As for the deadlines for the adoption, or deadlines for the selection of the November choir under this law, we are also aware that it relativises the provision of the law, but on the other hand it is certainly introduced because it is the first election based on this law and we hope that there will be no reason why this law will not be passed only because of the first elections, but it is now before the first elections in the future we will be able to catch the rhythm, so the rule that indeed these elections from a whole series of reasons that we do not have to explain are the beginning of the summer semester which, unfortunately, we have not arrived this time. Thanks to you once again with the promise that we will look very carefully at all your remarks and suggestions, we ask that, therefore, we propose that the law go into emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86249	Thank you. There is one correction, Mr. Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86250	It's about whether or not there's a student choir autonomy. If it is said that you claim to have preserved the autonomy of the student assembly, then the question arises how is it possible to perform it at all when the internal structure and the way of work that you prescribe among other things is that it must be arranged by the statute, that association or the representative body should be brought by someone else, a university rather than that association itself can bring it. Be careful, take our Rules of Procedure, read article 1 but also any other representative body, then you will see in the first article that the internal structure and way of working of that body is being arranged with us in the rules of procedure, in some other statutes and you say that the way of work and the internal structure of the student assembly brings a university. That doesn't make sense. So let the students handle it for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86251	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, I hereby conclude the debate on this agenda item. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86252	The final proposal of the Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations in accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: On the Proposal for a Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations, a debate was held with the Final Proposal for the Law in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? We're going to need you now! With 97 votes for and one abstention, a proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86253	We're going to the fifth item of today's agenda. - The proposal for a decision to declare "National Day Against Breast Cancer" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Mr Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86254	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For more than 50 years in the world, the International Month has been marked in October in the fight against breast cancer. So last October 7th in Zagreb and in most cities across the Republic of Croatia in action "five to twelve" over a thousand women supported the initiative to declare the National Day for Combating Breast Cancer. The basic question is why. In the Republic of Croatia, about 2.5 thousand women have had breast cancer annually and 50% of them are between 50 and 60 years of age. As the most common form of cancer that occurs in women, every third woman is suffering from this disease and dies, so 922 women died in 2005. It was precisely with the aim of reducing the mortality of breast cancer in the Republic of Croatia that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 29 June 2006 at the initiative of the Ministry of Health and Social Care the National Programme for Early Investigation of Breast Cancer. This programme, among other things, invites all women between the ages of 50 and 69 of life, which in the Republic of Croatia is slightly less than 600 thousand once in two years, because, therefore, by investing in such an early cancer discovery, it is one of the most successful and profitable ways for early detection and for the start of treatment. Over 104 thousand calls for an annual review have been sent to the National Programme, and we can point out on this occasion that the response was slightly more than 50,000 women, which makes up about 46%, and that it was found somewhere around 460 and some suspicious findings and confirmed 74 breast cancers. 74 women, therefore, were given the opportunity not only to heal but also to cure this serious disease in a certain case. It is clear that there are certain difficulties in the first year of implementation of the programme. However, monitoring not only the results of the implementation of the programme but also how the programme is implemented will take place in parallel with certain amendments and additions to the programme. Therefore, according to all these activities and also in the memory of all those who failed to win this battle, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament on 7 October to declare the National Day of Combating Breast Cancer, to encourage women to care for their health and also to popularise early detection and prevention of breast cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86255	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the board want to? Mrs. Carmela Caparin on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86256	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 71st session of the Committee held on 27 March 2007 discussed the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day Against Breast Cancer" which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 28 February 2007. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. During the debate, the proposal was supported to declare the national day of the fight against breast cancer on 7 October. Breast cancer is the most common malignant disease and leading cause of cancer mortality in women. The Republic of Croatia also noted the increase in the number of newly ill and dead every year. In further discussion, the opinion was that primary and secondary prevention is still the most effective in the fight against this disease. The national early detection programme for breast cancer, adopted in June 2006, envisions a mammographic scan once every two years for all women between 50 and 69 years of age. Thus organized form of prevention is one of the most effective ways to detect early breast cancer that carries with it a high survival process. In addition to regular clinical examinations and ultrasound examination of the breast, this is the best way to save the lives of a large number of women. Announcing the National Day for Combating Breast Cancer, according to board members, will be an incentive to women in care for the preservation of health by early detection of disease and for greater safety of healing. During the debate, it was warned of a relatively poor response to mobile mammogram reviews especially in rural areas. As the main cause of this weak response, board members see the issue of transport costs to the place of inspection. It is therefore proposed to increase the participation of the media, the association of women volunteers operated on breast cancer and others who would warn of the importance of mammographic examination. In the opinion of the Committee members, it would also be useful to provide for the possibility of organised free transport from remote places to where a mobile mammographer is located and to carry out a review. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of a decision declaring the national day against breast cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86257	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And I'm announcing that we're going to break up now. And the first one to speak at 3:00 is on behalf of the IDS representative of Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Then Mrs. Jagoda Martic and so on. Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86258	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly, respected counterparts Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86259	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues at the IDS Club, we certainly support the proposal to declare a national day of fight against breast cancer. But we disagree with the proposed date. In the proposal itself, we see on the half page the data that was handled by the ministry when it proposed this date. We see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a national programme for early detection of breast cancer, which brings all women between 50 and 69 years of age, a preventive review of about 600,000 women, as it is certain that investment in prevention is the most effective and cheapest treatment. In the Republic of Croatia, we see 2,000 500 women suffer annually, and each third of them dies from breast cancer. So in 2005, about 922 women. Although on 7 October 2006 in Zagreb and 33 cities participated in the action "5 to 12" I do not think that this action itself is a strong enough event to be a date to mark the day of the fight against breast cancer. I would like to remind you here that, in some areas, a project of early breast cancer has been applied systematically since 2003. And now I'm going to give you a little bit of the same information, back up the data. The Primorje-Gorski Kotar County initiative and the agreement with the Ministry of Health in 27.7.2003 launched an action to adopt early breast cancer programmes as a pilot project for Croatia, which will be defined in the Primorje-Gorski County. The first working meeting under the project was held on 8 December 2003. Furthermore, the Committee of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia for the licensing procedure carried out an inspection and supervisory review on 18.3.2004 and established that all requirements for ensuring the quality of such a project were met. At the meeting of the Headship of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which was held on 30.9.2004, a pilot project was adopted to detect breast cancer early. The pilot project itself began to be tested in 1.10.2004 and ended on 1.4.2005. It means that from the local level, the importance of this prevention has been understood and that a concept-making initiative, the definition of the programme and the new IT application has started from the local level. So the early detection programme for breast cancer began to happen as the first in Croatia. Therefore, the proposal to declare either 18.3.2004 or 1.10.2004 on the day of obtaining a licence for the early detection of breast cancer programmes when a pilot project started in Croatia. Since the 10th month is a month of fighting breast cancer I think this shift from 7 days to 1.10 I think would be a very good solution. I'll give you just a few information that's in the pilot project itself. There were two thousand 500 calls. A thousand 360 exams have been carried out. So about 70% of women responded to this kind of examination. As I have already said, the pilot project ended on 1.4.2005, but the early detection programme of breast cancer continues with the joint signing of the Agreement between all members of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and all units of local self-government in this area and the School of Public Health and the House of Health. This shows the willingness to finance the programme in 2006 and 2007. The Institute of Public Health is further educated by an existing team participating in the programme. An improved and modified information program that supports the project entirely. The number of supported calls shall be identical to the number of all available terms and may be concluded that the task has been fully completed. The final evaluation includes women of the target age group, as well as the overall response to the reviews will be possible to see after the completion of the implementation of the programme under the contract signed, which is 31.3.2007. The National Programme predicted that the early breast detection work included hospitals, but as we know it is not in line with European guidelines and it can be seen that it can be seen from our example from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County that health homes can do so. So I suggest we change this date and make it 1.10 instead of 7.10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86260	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party club, respected counterpart Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning of the day, let me say that the SDP club will support a decision to declare a national day against breast cancer. On October 7th, the date proposed to declare the national day of the fight against breast cancer is a logical choice because October is a month that has been marked for more than 50 years worldwide as a month of fighting breast cancer, and on 7 October 2006, action "5 to 12" was carried out in which over a thousand women in the guard of Zagreb and 33 other cities supported the initiative to declare a national day for the fight against breast cancer. So in the selected date we have a united and national and international symbolism, but here we have now had the opportunity to hear from our colleague Dorothy that this date is certainly one of the dates that might be considered, maybe even has a better symbolism than what was proposed by the government so that we actually have two combinations of choice. On behalf of the SDP club, I'd like to highlight a few facts. Breast cancer is the most common malignant disease in women. Every year in Croatia, about two thousand women suffer from breast cancer, and about 850 die. An estimated 10,000 women live in Croatia with breast cancer, and a thousand women unfortunately start metastasizing, i.e. spread further to tissues and organs. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in Croatia, more than 2,000 600 new cases of breast cancer were reported during 2001. Approximately 50% of patients... a metastatic disease that is generally incurable. Breast cancer at the beginning of the stage of development and symptomatic disease is usually detected by accident in routine examination. Early detection of breast cancer is therefore significantly improved in all women over 50 years of age to regularly perform a mammographic examination of the breast in order to detect possible changes in breast tissue in time. What we need to worry about is that when it comes to breast cancer in Croatia, we have an upward trajectory unlike the rest of Europe where this path is downward. Tumors discovered in women in Croatia are on average about 2cm high, and the average of Western countries is about 1.5cm which increases five-year survival to as much as 93%. The number of female patients in Croatia began to grow when prevention stopped, and prevention stopped privatising primary health care, so patients were allowed to cope in various ways to undergo mammographic and ultrasound examinations. We know that prevention and early detection of breast cancer is the best way to fight this severe disease successfully, and then the chances of successful healing are far greater. Early detection of breast cancer reduces overall mortality by about 30%. This is just another proof that the privatisation process of primary health care for the overall health care of citizens was more harmful than anyone thought of. If we add long waiting lists to hospitals for mammographic ultrasounds, and on the other hand, the standard of average citizens is such that they can't afford to go to private institutions for examinations so easily, then we are not surprised that the whole situation results in an upward path of breast cancer in Croatia. It is obvious that these situations are aware of the real estate ministry, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a national early detection programme on 29 June 2006 to encourage the Ministry of Health and Social Care, a natural early breast cancer detection programme aimed at reducing breast cancer mortality. The national programme, among other things, will invite all women aged 50 to 59 to live once every two years for mammographic recording. It is certainly commendable to the action, because I stress once again, that early cancer detection is the most effective way to combat this malignant disease, and then the chances of successful healing are great. However, according to data on women's previous response to calls that have arrived at their home address, it can be concluded that the response is not exactly what was expected when this action began. There's more than one reason why it's like that. One reason is the failure of the record, so calls are sent to women who are already undergoing surgery and even those who unfortunately died and, of course, have an impact on the overall response data on the call, that is to say, spoil the overall statistical picture. Another reason was that this action was to be preceded by a much stronger and more comprehensive campaign to explain to women what the action meant for their health and how important prevention is in the fight against breast cancer. Then one part of women is not a problem to go to the review after they get a call because the institution in which they can carry out a review is relatively close, they are mostly women living in cities, but the problem arises in women in rural areas who have to lose and all day long to reach the nearest medical facility that has a mammographer to carry out an examination not to mention now and the travel expenses that are naturally related to it. In order for this action to be carried out more successfully, it is necessary to go to a patient, not that the patient needs to come to a medical facility. Let's remember how to handle the prevention of tuberculosis. I was a high school girl at the time, but I remember those buses with a moving X-ray machine coming into certain neighborhoods of the city, residents were informed of the times of their arrival, and it was neatly coming to check, and that's the best way to prevent, go to a patient and not the other way around. Thus, this action would have been much more successful if the funds had been invested in the purchase of mobile mammographs to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and then women would not have the problem of deciding to review it because they can paint it at home. I'll illustrate it for example in my city. Our home of health has a mammogram, it was obtained a few years ago. The funds for its acquisition were collected mostly by different humanitarian actions, and part of the funds were provided by the Ministry of Health. However, the staff working on the health care x-ray has not increased. We still have one X-ray doctor and one technician. They're simply not able to cover all the needs on the x-ray, mammogram and ultrasonic apparatus. Thus, four to five women are received daily on mammographic examinations and, of course, waiting lists for a mammography checkup are created for more than four months. We recently organized the arrival of a mobile mammogram, and the checks were conducted for two days. More than 80 women were examined, and unfortunately we were unable to please all those women who wanted to perform the examination. This is an example that says that coming to a patient is a much more effective means of prevention, and in addition to that, it also points to the fact that even in cases where a community has a mammography, the service is not well organized and then the apparatus cannot be used optimally and we have waiting lists again needlessly. There's something else when we talk about this topic, the SDP club, wants to warn. This action covers only women between 50 and 69 years of age. However, the latest data show an increase in the incidence of early age disease, so it is necessary to start the examination on time, from the age of 40. The first base mammography should be made around the 40th year of life. Therefore, the health ministry project should include women between 40 and 49 years of age. And what is very important is the implementation of a broad campaign in terms of education and awareness to the general public on the need and importance of preventive checks. It is necessary for women to develop awareness that it is the minimum that they must do with the aim of maintaining their health. Because when it comes to illness, it's not worth the philosophy of ugly things happening to someone else, and it's gonna get around me. The disease doesn't choose its victims. We're all equally vulnerable in front of her. In this sense, a good decision is to declare the “national day of fight against breast cancer” because it is a good opportunity to talk about the problem of this malignant disease and the need to prevent and detect disease at the very beginning of its efforts. However, it is only one small segment in the battle with breast cancer. It takes a lot more to succeed. It is necessary to develop infrastructure in order for preventive checks to be equally available to everyone, not for women to give up their examination because they cannot get in line for the review or because they cannot get in line for the review or because the nearest mammogram institution has to travel and thus lose almost all day. Only then will we achieve that desired goal, which is that the mortality rate resulting from this most common form of cancer in women takes a downward path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86262	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, respected counterpart Marko Turic. Here's your colleague, Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86263	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Let the distinguished representative, Doroteu Pesic, who spoke about the pilot program and the dates that were and perhaps conveniently say for history that Croatia is a league for fighting cancer that she had in her programme early detection and systematic examinations. It happened in 1966 last century. Therefore, if these are to be selected dates, systematic care has been carried out in Croatia since then on systematic examinations and on health insane against tumours. But, I know, I know that the Istrian region and the mountain region has more incidence than other parts of Croatia by the republican cancer register, so it is good to step up such programmes and projects as it spoke of. But now let me just say a few words about this disease. This disease is mentioned by medical historians 4000 years before Christ. So it's not today's disease. 40 years ago, then 45 more accurate worlds realized that they could stand up to it and stand up to it in an organized way since medical science had advanced and progressed forward, and the results were encouraging. Of course, there was an attitude that one multidisciplinary attitude toward that disease, one united. So, in one place, he's a sick person, and around him, all the professions. This is the most important and most important, and this is actually the attitude that is being promoted today in both Croatia and the world in terms of oncology. And now something that means a tumor in Croatia at all. We'll get very serious if I tell you one statistical number, and that's 25,000 per year. So the phenomenon is 25,000 per 4 and a half million people. If one family member is ill, then almost everyone is sick in the house, including friends. If five years of life is what it is today, and relatively well then we will come to this multiplication very quickly that in Croatia today is infected, better say suffers from this fear and this disease almost 350 to 400 000 people. Which is just a health problem, social, sociological, whatever, whatever you take. And then the question arises how do you even oppose all of this organized as I mentioned earlier, united, multidisciplinaryly to keep the patient in the center, teams all around. And so today, oncology departments, clinics that are being built, are being built on that model, so that doctors are particularly trained in this. And thanks to technology, it's been going a long way ahead of diagnostics. You recognize and know it yourself, both ultrasounds and mommies and electron producers, linear accelerators. Then, the health squares to be built on all oatmeals, so that in that sense we are not lagging behind at all. Therefore, I as a man who closely spent my working life there and I'm still relatively satisfied with it, but never enough. And as pleased as I am and as much as I should be, I will tell you a little anecdotic about Krsevic's monument in front of the tumour clinic. There's two fishermen out there pulling the net. The fishermen don't know what they're going to pull through the darkness and the infidelity, but they're making a lot of effort. Likewise, people who are involved in this disease and who have to invest tremendously much, and they are not sure what they will gain from it. So that's what I'm saying to all those people who live hard in their professional parts, invest a lot in the profession, and help a sick man from a doctor, academics who do this work up to, through the nurses we thank and we owe a great thank you to this burnout and a great sacrifice that they make for these patients. But now let me say a few words about this subject, which is breast cancer, which is the most common cancer in women. It affects 24% of all tumours. In Croatia, it means 2300 figures. 900 women die every year. Since '70. There was a 230% increase in incidence in Croatia by this year. It's almost worrying us. However, when you look at it analytically, scientifically, when you go to observe it then you see that we were not informically before the network, that in these years of war we had something that all oncologists noticed, which is that women came to us with very advanced stages of disease, with loco regional and distant metastases, and when you're adventurously asking these women why, then they answered that they were guarding the home and children as mothers. Of course, I may now mention that we are somewhere in the upper part of the scale as far as Europe is concerned by the number of dead. The Republic cancer register will again be mentioned within Croatia mentioning Istria, Gorski kotar, and then the City of Zagreb as areas with a higher incidence. I've already mentioned that in fact 50% of women when they come to the first exam already have a remote disease, somewhere nearby we call the loco regional, and 26% of them already have distant metastases and then, in themselves, imposes on us what we do. Just what the Croatian government wants with this national programme, and that women come on time, because 94% of women will be in five years of survival if they arrive on time. And what does that mean? This means that mammographic one video can detect a process that would not manifest in two years, and that's what's important to us and people who deal here think that the best drug is early detection and prevention. You see, before '93. A coalition against the deadline was established in Rome and it was called Europe Dona. That's what you've heard from it. A few months after that, Europe Dona was also established in Croatia. It is like a non-profit humanitarian association, voluntary, non-partisan and that promotes the quality of life and the treatment of this severe disease. It stands for several goals, promotes the wife's awareness of the breast, promotes improvement, exchanges facts of new breast cancer information. Its aim is to sensitize the Croatian public about breast cancer as the leading cause of death in women, to highlight the need for organised early detection review, to promote of course optimal treatment, psychosocial and professional rehabilitation, as well as the palitative care I would not like to talk about. Then, promote progress in cancer research with the participation of women in clinical trials, of course with their consent. Then, provide women with the right to know, understand their condition, all forms of treatment, care, the right to a second opinion, the right to a joint decision on treatment. Then, to participate in the proper form of healthcare professionals, professionals, to hear their voice and, of course, listen when speaking and seeking medical equipment. We will certainly hear from respected representatives fine examples such as throughout Croatia some smaller homes of health, but thanks to the wishes, wills and dedication, the occupancy of certain women has already been bought and carried out systematic checks for years. These are all objectives taken from this Europe done they are achieved through educational projects, so these are press materials, public manifestations, mentioned and recently held Narcissus Day, Pink strip Day, national, international professional gatherings and good co-operation with organisations, breast cancer institutions. With us is the Croatian Senological Society, Croatian Oncological Society, Croatian Cancer League, tumour clinic and other Croatian oncological institutions. The following, and taking into account the information from the Croatian Cancer Register that 2 thousand 300 newly ill women, that 900 are dying of breast cancer, that the increase is 200% in the last 30 years, that mammography is the method of choice in the early diagnosis of cancer, that 97% is a five-year survival when it is discovered early, that it is necessary to raise the awareness of our women. We suggest for these reasons, like everyone else, that the HDZ Club be declared the National Cancer Day on October 7th because it's all our mothers, our wives, our daughters, our sisters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86264	Thank you, dear fellow Turic. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86265	Just one little correction, maybe the doctor didn't think when he said the leading cause of death in women was breast cancer. However, the main cause of death in Croatia in men and women is cardiovascular disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86266	On behalf of the Croatian Party, it is the right of a respected colleague, Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club supports the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day Against Breast Cancer". I just don't know why you're just going to declare it, why you're just going to talk about it, when according to European health atlas, the uterus's carcinoma is the tenth, Croatia is the tenth in Europe by carcinoma of the uterus, and by cancer or breast cancer we're 18 in Europe. So this is much worse and women seem three times in a worse position. But I'm for anything that will prolong women's lives. I'm just suggesting that he return to his 40-year-old number because I believe we all have someone, I have friends three and those close friends who died in the mid-40s. I'd like the same thing to come back, because why would these women be sentenced to disease to wait until they're 50? Because we know well that there are many women who find it very difficult to get to, especially women on islands. I think this should come back, come back to 40, that all women are treated from 40. Because it says here that 50% of women between the ages of 50 and 69 are dead. So, the other 50%, where are they? And I believe that a large number, a large percentage is there between women in 40 and 50 years. So the HSP club suggests that the years be down to 40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86268	Thank you very much. The government's secret has come forward, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86269	Mr. Vice President! In fact, I'd just like two things to stay out of the way, 'cause it's being sent out of this press conference a little bit of a guilty message. Mammography as a screening method cannot be used at the age of 40 or cannot be used at a generic age. Then other methods can be used that are also prepared soon. These are the method of ultrasound detection. And the screenig method, meaning the method of frequent mammographic findings, is done only in women who are beyond generic age. So we absolutely support the idea and it goes in this direction to create preventive programs for that age of women, but not the mammographic method. According to the ministry, a large number of women were asked to work at that generational age mammography that we have to refuse, unfortunately, because it was then harmful to women. And there's also data and it's professional and scientific that proves that they could even be the cause of something like that. Therefore, responsible for this payphone, it should be said that in any case preventive tests and early detection tests as secondary prevention should also be expended at an earlier age. But then the scans that are for screening and that are harmless from that position. It should also be stated that this Croatian Parliament has adopted one National Strategy, therefore, the development of health care in which all preventive so-called “preventions” will be listed in one section. Scanning programs lead, so it's not just about uterus cervix tumors, it's also about prostate tumors. And what's in great reinforcement is colorectal cancer. Based on the action plan, the strategy started with early detection of breast cancers, and continues this year, early detection of some other cancers will be carried out. As far as the date itself is concerned, just as it is a general benefit for women, in some way to try that verse that occurs with such a severe disease towards women, it has not gone to any dates that would mark any political option or any other sense, but it is also with the Citizens' Associations on 7 October, which is also supported by them, a neutral date, because this topic is much higher and much more sensitive than politics, so as the Government would stay with the proposal to mark the 7th of October as National Day Against Breast Cancer Cancer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86270	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, respected colleague Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to fix what Mr. Secretary of State was talking about. With all due respect, he's an expert doctor, but I don't think this claim stands, that women between the ages of 40 and 50 are not recommended to perform mammography. However, there are some standards where it is said that women between 50 and 60 years of life once a year, or once every two years should undergo mammographic examinations. And women from 40 to 50 every three years have one mammographic exam. Of course mammography isn't the only method. Mammography, ultrasound and manual examination are, that set is the one that actually gives one certainty that the state is okay. But I cannot accept this claim that women between 40 and 50 should not be subjected to mammographic examinations. After all, the waist itself denies it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86272	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, a respected colleague, Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian People's Party club will in any case support the decision to declare "National Day Against Breast Cancer" with the hope that it will contribute to a rather bad situation in Croatia. If we know that, and my colleague Letica was correcting because I heard the same thing, and my colleague seems to have said the right thing, breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor of women. And also what he said, it is known that breast cancer is the leading cause of women's death due to cancer. And if we know that breast cancer is on the rise anyway, because when we look at breast cancer diagnosis in 1990 in Croatia, a thousand 461 have been diagnosed. '98. We're talking about 2,000 300 this year, and even some data say 2,000 500. It's a huge increase and you can see that this trend is on the rise. And when we tie it to mortality, it's the '90s. 800 women died of breast cancer in 2005 to talk about 922 women who died of breast cancer. And if we compare that to developed countries in the world and when we compare it to, say, America and their data that they had back in '99. And then this is quite alarming for us because in America a thousand, 700, 178 thousand breast cancers are discovered annually, while the mortality of 43,000 is 500 women, which is 25%. That's '99. In Croatia, a thousand 900 breast cancers with the mortality of 850 women were discovered, which is 45%, which is practically twice as much as in America. The average size of cancer detected in Croatia is greater than 3 cm in '99. Was. And discovered by cancer up to 1 centimetres of size practically guarantees five-year survival with a probability of 80%. carcinomas greater than 2 centimeters say five years of survival is only 20%. These larger cancers normally create metastases in lymph nodes, leading to 40% higher mortality than in those when these are not normal. And in America, thanks to mammography in five years, the average size of diagnosed cancer is from 2 to 1.5 centimeters and with a reduction in metastases of 35%. The fact is that women who are over 50 years of age are also sick and younger than 50 years of age and the doctor can probably confirm that men are also sick, and that it is even more difficult and far more deadly then women. Those countries that started with organized early detection programs, meaning either palpation at the beginning and then mammography have an imminent drop in mortality. So Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland managed to stop the increase in mortality, which is not the case with us. In fact, we see that this increase is practically 100 women in five years. On October 18, 2006, we started the National Programme for the Prevention of Breast Cancer where women from 50 to 69 years of age refer to preventive checks one over two years, and in any case it is good and it should continue but not only continue but in any case more work to be taken as a fact, to be aware of diseases that can happen if they do not go to those checks because we know that the response to these checks is weak, that information is particularly in rural areas, and that I am not talking about all those problems that affect women especially in rural areas, and this is a lack of financial resources to go to that review at all. This is what we should work on and in any case allow all women of that age to go to mammographic exams. The HNS Club will support this, and we hope that at least one day a year in that month where we should fight breast cancer, that this day will also contribute to the first information and awareness, as well as the media and all the rest of that day at least try to contribute to making as many women as possible into mammographic examinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86274	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It is on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Pavlic. Here you go, colleague Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86275	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So let me put out on behalf of the regional party club our position on the proposal to declare October 7th the Day of Fight Against Breast Cancer. We certainly like all clubs support this law. And now that we do not repeat those figures or attitudes, perhaps just to point out, we agree with all those who think that this law will achieve what is most important, that the overall Croatian public will be sensitised on the one hand in the fight against breast cancer. On the other hand, the need to respond to regular breast examinations involving clinical examination, ultrasound and mammography. It has been warned here that for various reasons this response is very low, so I think that the entire government would have to influence it through medical or social or any other programmes, so that each woman has the right to go to a certain age for such a review regardless of her social status. It was said here that it was cancer, i.e. that breast cancer has become unfortunately the first leading cause of female mortality in the Republic of Croatia. That's unfortunate, especially if we compare it to the previous years when it was cardiovascular disease. So the 2004 data tells us that the cancer caused by breast cancer was the most common cause of women’s death between 39 and 59 years of age. Now, unfortunately, this has increased to the overall female population, but nevertheless, this data tells us that we need to lower the entire prevention system by ten, at least ten years lower, so that women of 40, especially those in risk groups and below, with a smaller number of years, may be subjected to thus preventive checks. Here we have heard the fact that in this action, the national action against breast cancer so far, women's response has been about 50 to 69 years old, around 50%. Here, there's a middle where that response is bigger. So I have information that in this program so far in Međimurje County, 200 women have been examined. So the response was extremely good, which means that over 70% of women responded to the call. We therefore think that we must all strive for the response to be much higher throughout Croatia. We hope, then, that this law will contribute to that too. This law speaks of the day of combating this vicious disease that is in the 10th month, and last week, another action, which is being held in the spring, ended. An action that is linked to a flower so narcissistic. That's how in Čakovec last week, the same day was marked on Saturday, Narcissus Day. These flowers were sold narcissists and some money was collected which was used or will be used to detect breast cancer early. From the money collected in the previous actions of Narcissus Day in Međimurje it has already been purchased a lymphatic drainage apparatus important for the rehabilitation of operated women, UZV apparatus and digital phosphorus tapes for mammography that are necessary for the early detection of this, this form of cancer. What does that tell us? It tells us that in fact our entire system is not financially or materially qualified to function 100%. So when such different actions we have to raise extra money to make this system more functional. So it reveals many cracks throughout the entire system. So here were the questions about the availability of mammographs, the issue of disorganization, the issues of waiting lists that still exist, the question of equipment and unequippedness, and so on and so on. We think that we need to round up this whole system of detecting this severe disease in such a way as to lower the obligation to review. Also in such a way that the whole system is materially, financially equipped so as not to fall on the burden of those who would use this system. Maybe there's just some information about the need to expand the review as well with the use of nuclear magnetic resonance. Here's a case of the American Cancer Society that says that a million and a half women in America should necessarily build a nuclear magnetic resonance per year, not just a mammogram in the fight against breast cancer. So the American Cancer Society recommends scans and mammograms once a year for women over 30 years of age but therefore belonging to a high-risk disease group. We therefore think that we should do so in Croatia and that we should not save money in this direction. There's still so much in the end that we support this action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86276	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, respected colleague Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club will absolutely support the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day Against Breast Cancer. So it's absolutely one moral support to fight breast cancer and it itself here has remained ineffective unless you follow other actions. And therefore, the encouraging action of the Ministry of Health, which is ongoing and which contributes to early detection because, as has been said during today's debates in this vicious disease, is indeed the most important early discovery of cancer. But worrying about the action is the weak response. We have different percentages in response. It's even 30% somewhere. And it seems to me that we've heard on the boards that the average female response in this action is only 30%. So absolutely if we were to go by name and last name, if we were to go to the residence of those women who responded to this preventive examination then we would find that these are mostly women who are in the place where the mammogram is located. It is a worrying problem for those who do not respond, and of course we have to ask ourselves a question and what are the reasons? Why does a woman invited to such a preventive examination not respond? Well, the reasons are mostly financial. It's about women who are away from where the mammographer is. And another reason is the question of education. That is why, if we want to make this programme more successful, the Ministry of Health absolutely needs to find methods or mobile or mobile mammogram that will come closer to a woman or a transport organisation and bring a woman. However, this should be preceded by a systematic education of women in rural areas because it is somehow in the mentality of a woman in the rural area that it is more and more important than herself. So we really need to educate that human life, that the life of that woman above all else is secondary, and that is why, with the organisation or transport or mobile mammograms, it really takes the education of women to respond to this good action and to reduce women's mortality by early detection of breast cancer. It is really worrying that in Croatia, unlike European countries where women's mortality is recorded in us, there is still an increase in women's mortality, which is not good. Of course, a change in that direction would in any case result in preventive examinations and early detection of breast cancer. So the Croatian Peasant Party's Club absolutely supports this decision proposal by appealing to the Ministry of Health for the possibility of reviewing and responding to this call to women first and foremost in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86278	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a respected colleague of Lelic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86279	.../The speaker was subsequently included./...President. I certainly support this proposal to declare October 7th the National Day of Combating Breast Cancer. I consider it a single incentive and a contribution actually to encourage and responsible behaviour of women themselves towards their own health, which includes from self-examination to regular examinations, as we have heard from UVV and mammography. Of course I would consider it one and an incentive, to sensitize the public that this and pointing to this really important and public-health, public-health problem. I think that this public-health problem should be dealt with by all local communities and companies that see that this happens more and more often. Now that organized women refer to such examinations, because many of them actually find it hard to decide for themselves and I believe in both part of it and because of lack of education, but one part of it is afraid of what is revealed to us in each examination. I would say here that certainly World Cancer Day already exists and that we have so far been involved in this action and that this is certainly a day of narcissism, a good incentive in that direction. So we would also have heard here several times already what the number of new patients is, that this is about 2300, that we have a significant mortality of about 900 women a year and certainly that ministry recognized it as a really public-health problem. As I said in the budget for this year 2007, we have 20 million kunas for the early detection of malignant diseases and another million and 300 more for the prevention of malignant diseases, while let's say in 2005, it was only 196,000. Certainly here I would like to say Professor Turic said that sometimes small institutions, small homes of health were getting mammographs and starting such activities, so I also want to say that a small home of health has been since '99. The year deals with continuous early detection and prevention when it comes to malignancies of the breast. As we can see, they are when it comes to malignant women's diseases in the first place. Well, sometimes even one of these activities can be used in pre-election programs, so we had a case in Babina Gredi that pre-elections were recorded and entered in fact and then they were found without any faxy and no anything, so it created a lot of anxiety among the women who then frequently appeared to us in the institution for further treatment. It just shows that with such programs they really need to be systematically well-planned and really have to serve their purpose. Because when you give someone a worm a doubt about something that they're suffering, and especially this serious condition, then it's very difficult to convince them afterwards that it's not like that. It certainly means that this will be one incentive for our responsible behaviour both as an individual and as a society. Because here I'd like to say that actually when it comes to the health system itself, then he's responsible for health indicators about 20%, and that our lifestyle is as much as 70%. Therefore, this too will move us to act more responsibly in every way, to detect all these serious diseases in time, and in fact this is the only way that we can both successfully and successfully treat them and to some way and to extend and survive. I would certainly like to point out here and it is certainly commendable that this Perceptine is now available to our women. Those who don't have metastases and certainly should be because it's too late to intervene already in a detached stage. We should intervene as soon as possible and I would like to point out once again for these preventive measures with increased resources in the state budget, with available medicines available in other countries and with all kinds of treatment that we will achieve a positive shift along with all of this and in this area, and we are expected to see this preventive programme of detecting malignant colon diseases, which is also a significant public-health problem, and we have seen that important shifts have been made in terms of cardio vascular diseases which are nevertheless the biggest cause of mortality, and that there are therefore trained cardio surgery in both Osijek and Split, Zagreb and so on. So, there is a continuous, comprehensive and planned action that ultimately needs to be done to reduce mortality both from cardiovascular diseases and from malignant diseases that are the two most important and the two most common causes of mortality in us. That is why I support this declaration of National Day Against Breast Cancer as one contribution in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86280	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure provides for a time to report an individual debate of 10 minutes. We're crossing, we're continuing the debate. It's my friend Mlinarić's turn. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Dear colleague Caparin. She's not here either. He's losing his voice on this subject. Dear fellow Letica is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86281	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, of course I will support the initiative but I will say why I am in principle skeptical of this new medically-medicated rhetoric because I may have read a small study of Susan Sontag almost a long time ago as a metaphor. This is a historical socio-psychological analysis of two major health problems of tuberculosis and stereotypes related to tuberculosis of art, which was built on tuberculosis with a peak in “The Magic Hill” by Thomas Mann and cancer. The history of the human race has a positive attitude towards the breast. So all poetry, painting, literature, human dreams, poetry, eroticism are about breast. So, in human history, the breast was a symbol of harmony, beauty, fertility, desire. We today and it has been a trend for many years to use militant and medicalized metaphors, which on the one hand is not bad. We should not be ashamed to use the concept of cancer or metastases or amputations or implants or chemotherapy. But I think the effect is counterproductive, a civilizational effect, an effect on the perception of breast culture, especially in cultures that are fixed on the breast, such as American culture that has a breast cult and actually determines an entire American popular culture. In that sense, I would be much happier if the day, that day is the day of a healthy breast, first of all because breast cancer is not the basic problem. With modern doctrine forced young people into aesthetic interventions. We have plastic operations that will bring new health problems. Nothing would have been lost if it had been called "The Day of Healthy Breasts" or "The Day of Perunics", let's just say it's not an accident that the narcissist is tied to the female breast. That's what I'm telling you because we're trying to look at it from a woman's perspective. If we had declared today Prostate Cancer Day, then there would have been one anxiety even though there is a much greater percentage of men over 50 who have different cannons of prostate problems. The prostate, however, violates the sexual identity and sexual self - consciousness of men and thus does not even intend to talk about it in the area. I stayed here, in fact, because I would like to revive an idea that was fragmented by my colleague, Ruža Tomasic, to devote one day, at least one day to another's health. One cult book in the beginnings of feminism, the book Simoma Debuolar was called "The Other Sex". Other health or women's health could be one convenient metaphor that would say what the health problems of women in Croatia are today, therefore. She mentioned the cancer of the uterus that makes us at least twice the least in a more unfavourable position than we are with breast cancer. Another problem, we have completely false ideas about the sexual distribution of the disease. If you take a test, and I often do that to students even at a postgraduate study of general practice or family medicine and if you ask them who dies more often of heart attacks, journalists and writers and parliamentary representatives or peasants. 90% will make the wrong judgment. They'll say poets die more often. And the writers, because all of this is being sung and the Croatian television is being reported. This also applies to women who suffer more often from a heart attack and some other cardiovascular disease. In this sense, if you want to talk seriously about health in general in Croatia, you should consult public health experts, medical sociologists, psychologists and other people who, in cooperation with brilliant clinicians and institutions such as the institution of Marko Turic, whom no one will ever know how to thank for the last 5 days of human life. And in that sense, I would like to get on this subject, to sort of demedicate the breast, because it has counter effects, I assure you. And in this respect, talking about breast health is much more rational because it then points not only to mammography and medicalization of treatments but also to the old doctrine that has been said about it by Professor Turic when only the breast examination was treated as an equally legitimate method. All in all I'm saying is I'm going to support this idea, but I'd also like to appeal to the secretary of state that when determining brands of such public action, something needs to be done. And the last sentence is about the old subject, which is absolute and unequivocal and the priority of the Croatian people is related to the disease of smoking. However, no one wants to take this seriously, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In view of both indicators of incidence and cancer mortality caused by smoking, we are in second place among 52 countries in Europe. I, from day to day, apply from week to week to ban smoking in this House of Commons. However, the tobacco lobby seems to be so powerful that no one has the guts to do so. And besides, everyone's afraid because 80% of journalists smoke so they think they're this nervous and negative about this Parliament if they're banned from smoking, then maybe they'll declare us werewolves or I don't know what else. I ask you once again, especially my fellow doctors and doctors, some of whom are my brilliant students to support me in this activity, because the next thing I can do after 10 public appeals – and 5.6 files to sue the President and Parliament Presidency Mladen Bajic, who loves such bans on smoking in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86282	The problem will be on a legal basis because you say it's up to you to pass a smoking ban law. But in closed spaces. ... [[Intruder: Well he's already brought Vice President.]] All right, well, we're not gonna run this controversy now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is next to the respected colleague Zdenka Babić Petričević, who does not have the right to speak on the subject. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović is next. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here with this proposal, the government proposes to declare October 7th the National Day Against Breast Cancer, so just on the day, so October 7th, and to remind myself of '91. The years when the Ban Courts were rocketed. Gratitude is a valuable initiative, therefore, in any of the first popularization and awareness of this problem as a woman, because the only regular examinations, i.e. prevention is a guarantee of healing, if there is a disease. And this programme, implemented by the government called "Mom" is unfortunately not celebrated. First of all, the government and openly, through the resolution ministry admits that unfortunately it is an unsatisfactory number of women who have responded to such a single programme. The reasons are different. They were also spoken of by our colleague Martic on behalf of the SDP club. However, problems in general due to low response could be classified as those of organisational nature, just as the programme is not popularised enough, and what is most important, what HZZO was late on payment. Only recently on a major emergency and initiative, therefore, is the disclosure of the problem that Rebro Hospitals did not pay for this program where women appeared, these costs are as peaceful as they are. But precisely because of the lack of funds or late payments so that one hospital in Dubrovnik has interrupted this programme of government precisely because HZZO refused to pay for the checks of these women under this National Programme. It seems to me, therefore, that by declaring this day itself, we will not compensate for the content that we have declared in this National Strategy for Combating Cancer. It seems to me, then, that we prefer to figure this manifesto rather than what it really is. So these are praises worth programmes, but which require money and should not, therefore, require hospitals to urinate to raise the public in order for HZZO to settle this cost especially when in this way trying to popularise which many women saved their lives. Something on the trail of what a fellow Letica was saying is often about protecting the health of a woman only through her reproductive organs as if she were a woman, only so much if she protected her reproductive organs. Here I am correcting Dr. Turic to this year, but we still don't know how this year will end, but last year and all these years the first cause of death and women have cardiovascular disease, and then only in the second place cancer, and that's what my colleague Ruža was talking about, uterine cancer. About the cancer of the cervix code of women who's problem number one. Who carry men who don't even know they're infected. The main cause of uterus cancer and mortality in women. Unfortunately, Croatia is the tenth in Europe to have this type of disease. One good part of the cause is also in inadequate education. This is why the SDP constantly advocates and speaks about the necessity of introducing a sex program in our schools. Our young men and girls have almost not heard that exactly, that these are not just traditional sexual diseases being treated with penicillin, but that they can lose because of some irresponsible behavior, they don't know the dangers, they can lose their heads, and most often they suffer here again the woman. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86284	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption, my colleague said the Croatian Health Insurance Service refused to pay for mammography services. That's not true. All the programs are paid especially preventive and it just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86286	Dear Representative Andrija Hebrang, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86287	Thank you very much. Correction of the same incorrect allegation, but another new explanation. Namely, a colleague said that the response is very low on mammography below 40% because HZZO is late for payment. That's not true, of course. Because the office I run gets HZZO all paid up, and my response is 33%. So that's proof that the cause of the delay is not HZZO. Because the suits are paid in gross sums and it's the head of the department that's going to deploy that money to. The reason for the delay is the second. The reason for lateness is that women are not informed of this, they do not know about the danger of breast cancer, they do not know about early detection, and as evidence of this, the fact that in Scandinavian countries where screening or breaking the program for decades has achieved a maximum response of 70%. So our goal is also to achieve 70%, and we're going to achieve it by sending mammographs to where the woman lives so that she doesn't have to travel by train, bus or plane, and another thing to do through the media is to give women a medical enlightenment so they know what's saving their lives. Therefore, the HDZ is not truly guilty but should point out that it pays for the first time preventive programmes, not only of these, but also of those over 40 years of age and for a whole series of other preventive programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86288	And the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86289	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague said in her presentation that she's not actually here or figure out anymore than she's actually trying to do something that's not true. I've written it correctly, rather likes to figure out, which is not true, and it's a really designed and continuous process that has been allocated and significant means as I pointed out in my presentation of around 20 million kuna, and surely a weak response can't possibly be what HZZO how, and if conditionally he didn't pay the bills in time, it really has nothing to do with response. With response, she has self-awareness and awareness of women who need to report to an ina review.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86290	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86291	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will be very brief but I considered it appropriate to answer and try and underline some of the things that should certainly be sent here as messages to our citizens and to all the institutions that will clearly implement this programme that we talked about today. In fact, the greatest wealth in one country, we will all agree, is basically the health of the people of that country, and this one in itself, what we heard, and from those of you who spoke earlier, the initiative itself will not solve all of our problems. I'm sorry that fellow Letica left, but I disagree with him that we should call this day a day of healthy breast. I don't think even the name we left behind is going to encourage some to radically change their behavior, let alone call it something different. I would also like to warn here, the stories we've heard today that practically every municipality, every city wants to buy its mammographer, that there's no way out. I'm sure if there's no mammogram that needs to be obtained. However, the optimal and correct use of existing mammographs, that they need qualified personnel, should clearly participate in the diagnostic process, is what is more important at this point. I would especially like to warn you of what I keep saying, and that is a lack of coordination in us. And here we have to try to connect three things. Try to connect expertise, systematicity and practicality. The system, it'd just be a few words about her. We will declare October 7th the day of the fight against breast cancer, but I would like to say that we have to do much more than that, 365 days a year and in a preventive procedure both in the diagnostic process and in the therapeutic procedure. We have to do a lot more colleagues. I tried to talk to a larger number of boys and girls in the neighborhood where I live to see how many people through their personal school and through high school education know exactly about cancer problems, and I could even connect some details, so I asked them if they thought alcoholism had anything to do with cancer. Alcoholism causes cirrhosis, and a large percentage of these patients with cirrhosis will definitely cross over, heading towards primary liver cancer. The kids don't know anything about it. I ask them if they know anything about viral diseases and cancer. What viral diseases can lead to cancer? They don't know anything about it again. Look, I'm talking about diseases that are therefore being prevented. And alcoholism can be declared and fought against both viral diseases and prevention. Then about lung cancer. We've been through this before today, but I don't think we've made enough effort. So we have a smoking prevention law, a smoking ban, but we're not doing anything at all. A fellow Letica has every right to insist on that subject. In my environment, many will say so why stop smoking and then give me an example of an 80-year-old who's healthy and say his whole life sucks, so it's an example to him, but it's not the data we have to go out with. The epidemiological data we have to go out with is such that we have to say that out of the 100,000 smokers and 100,000 non-smoking citizens... cancer is 15 times bigger, so not 15%, but a thousand 500 percent higher in people who smoke. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point. In America, they do this to make the ugliest movies, the death videos of these patients show children in primary school. Why? To impress them, to come home, to argue with their parents, to influence them to quit smoking. We also need to use such methods, almost intimidation, in some situations because there are some forms of work that are very, very bad in us. We have already heard today that we are at the top of the European scales by the incidence of some forms of cancer. That's certainly not good. Something's not worth it, something's wrong with what we're doing so far in preventive and diagnostic procedures. The message we're sending and the message we're about to announce this day has to be reached by colleagues and colleagues to every family, to every citizen. If we don't make it, then we haven't done anything. So here I call on the media and television as the most powerful medium and radio and our daily newspaper to engage in this battle against breast cancer. They have to help us. If the message doesn't get to the last citizen, we haven't done the job properly. This is where the hat should be removed to Andrija Stampar and his methods of work when every citizen was priorityd and he had to get a message, he was interested in what this institution or that institution thought, but the message had to come to the last citizen of our country. Further messages must be, and we haven’t heard enough about it to prevent the work from happening often. That's what I was talking about earlier, and that cancer is given very often as well. And it has to be messages. So, prevention, diagnostics and therapy that we need to improve, we need to work on 365 days a year. This day must symbolically crown our activities, this work that must certainly be much, much more effective. I don't think I should repeat things from what my colleagues said. So, support certainly to declare October 7th the National Day against Breast Cancer, but with all of us colleagues and colleagues waiting for a big job and I think we need to be very concerned about why we haven't been successful so far and how we're essentially radically changing our behavior to be much more successful from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86292	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm using a replica of my clubmates so that it doesn't turn out to be a different kind of political competition and the presence of the secretary of state what does it really look like in practice and in Croatia this day? Three days ago, a woman from my family was born in 1984 because of early medical... The reason she was instructed to make an ultrasound of the breast and regular control every 6 months is because the specialist doctor identified the need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She checked in and was ordered to record September 19th this year. It was on the counter on March 20th and was ordered for September 19th this year. What does it mean to declare the Day of Fight Against Breast Cancer, if not to mammography, but to wait for an ultrasound for six months? Young women are not regularly examined or out of spite, but according to a specialist who said we recommend making an ultrasound every 6 months. Does anyone really believe that by declaring the Day of Fight Against Breast Cancer, we're doing something while the state of the health system is such that we've been waiting for a simple ultrasound for six months, and the mammographer we're dreaming about unsatisfactory dreams, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86294	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86295	Thank you. So actually agreeing with most of what counterpart Miljenko Doric said, I also listened carefully to the replica of my colleague Lesar who actually relied on yours. We all have such examples in the family where for several months you wait for the ultrasound of the breast, or mammography, with of course you can't, it may still be missed if you call Monday, but you have to call certain days a month to naturally order for months ahead. However, I would like to in fact in particular to encourage and problem this part that concerns how much we actually work and work on the education of our young people, so all together I remind you of the famous health education that should be somewhere said from the autumn of our primary, or secondary schools, so let me remind you of what kind of debates we have in the public and what we have brought down the problem of health education, including the Minister of Health himself and how many hours are planned at all, it seems to me 12 hours a year that will be spent and still not known how and how in health education. Still, I'd like to say something to this occasion. Someone mentioned here, I think she was a colleague of Ruža Lelic, who said here this year in the budget, projected a million 670,000 years for the programme, a national programme in the prevention of breast cancer. Look at the structure of what that million and 670 thousand apply to. A million and 400 thousand refers to promotion and information. And today here, speaking of the proposal of this date, we're talking about a little response and that women didn't know they weren't informed. And please, how and in what way is electronic or written through the media at all? So I'm wondering what it's going to look like in the end to carry out the state budget according to this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86296	Replica reply, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86297	Namely, I thank you, here, for this replica. In fact, she just wants to underline the importance of education. And I really think that's something we've been talking about so far. Our youngsters don't know enough the fact that a sexually transmitted disease can finally end up with uterus cancer. From a viral disease transmitted precisely in this young population, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, can finally end up with liver cancer again, etc. Therefore, these preventive programmes must be based primarily on the good education of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86298	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86299	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course I support making a decision to determine October 7th as the National Day for Combating Breast Cancer. I also support all manifesto other forms that remind us of this vicious disease. And usually not just breast cancer, but cancers that are very present. What concerns us today is the fact that in Croatia, this disease increases the number of dying women, that there is a growing number of them in time or that 50% are just over 50 years and between 50 and 69 years, respectively. And to actually increase the number of those who are either getting this disease at a much earlier age. And it is known that this disease is more destructive and more rapid in younger people than it is in older people. And for this reason, I, of course, also support the national early detection programme for breast cancer, which the government brought in in the 6th month of 2006, by actually supporting the idea, would like to highlight one important thing. It won't matter much if we stay on national programmes if we stay on days of fighting breast cancer or if I don't know tomorrow the arms of the uterus, the day after tomorrow the prostate, the lungs of this or that part. ... They'll remind us of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think the time has come for the Republic of Croatia to, in the context of any other law that regulates special taxes, be allocated part of those taxes in advance to the Cancer Fund as such, and, in particular, in the context of this distribution especially for breast cancer, the fight against breast cancer, the fight against other forms of malignant disease. Why am I talking about this? Because there are a large number of causes that can directly and even more help this disease indirectly. That's number one. Number two. The fact that real knowledge in a large part of the population is not about how dangerous it is, but how to recognize it, how early it is to expose, at least symptoms, etc. It's very low. And in this respect it is quite clear that there is a need to invest additional resources for education. That additional means for early detection should be invested, for natural diagnosis, for the determination of a possible form of treatment, therapy. And of course, any post-operative treatment etc. Such funds are increasingly demanding not only the good will and education of professionals who will deal with it, our doctors, etc., but also the purchase of very expensive funds that are needed in Croatia. That's why I think that when we talk about tobacco tax or cigarettes, when we talk about some other opiates, etc., we should start thinking about rerouting a certain percentage of that tax to these things. There's not only breast cancer, there's lung cancer, there's another form of disease, because it's quite clear that actually this limit of age has to be done when it comes to breast cancer again much more lower on our occasions. And one more thing we didn't say today. Unfortunately, in the past 17 years, the Republic of Croatia has experienced aggression and any destruction resulting from war and war. This extremely affects the psychophysical structure of man and, of course, such forms of stress as they once did, and most often indirectly support different forms of illness, and unfortunately these too. It shows at least statistics that the number of patients with different types and forms of cancer has increased in our last 17 years. And not only has it increased, the number of deaths has increased with the efficiency of our medical teams in providing medical services and treating individual species. Now, for this reason, it would be very good to ensure and consider the possibility of actually providing additional funds, direct funds as we have in some cases, such as insurance from a car accident, etc., that a certain part of the funds is allocated to a specific transport security fund. So why not also for health, to prevent the provision of additional funds that are not only the regular contributions paid and from which certain means of education, prevention, treatment, etc. should be provided. That is why I propose to consider, that a part of these funds should be handled in those who are engaged in activities that can be either a direct or indirect stimulator or an incentive for these diseases. First of all, I say again about the tobacco industry. But you wouldn't be here to argue and about... oil and oil products processors, which are also concerned with their consumption and their use from the automotive to chemical industries, can, in any event, affect and affect the spread of these serious diseases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let me finally say that I support this motion for a decision, that I will certainly vote for it. But I think that it should be a reason for all of us to be concerned and to see how and how to provide additional resources, that, in fact, to our experts, we should, above all, make available to the medical staff the necessary means for a better and more preventive and diagnostic and of course, a therapeutic obligation or a role that I can play. No, there is no shortage of will, there is far more lack of opportunity due to lack of resources compared to the needs we unfortunately have and therefore I think we have to take measures to try to reduce it to a minimum level as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86300	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Zvonimir Golem Ante final review would you like? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to declare National Day Against Breast Cancer. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 94 votes, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So before you, I would like to say a simplified half of the members of the National Council for Higher Education now and in accordance with Article 11. Law on scientific activity and higher education. I remind this House of higher education that it is about the body appointed by the Croatian Parliament just over two years ago, the National Council for Higher Education, the body whose work you adopted by adopting his work report several months ago rated it extremely successful. Eleven members of this body have therefore been appointed two years ago. Meanwhile, a tragic and certainly unpleasant situation occurred. The member of that council, Professor Vera Gamulin, unfortunately, died but also the president of the body, Professor Dulcic, had to ask for his release because of the illness, so by force of these opportunities, there were certain changes during the two-year period. Article 11 of the Law reminds you that 6 out of 12 council members are elected after two years of work. What kind of members are these? These are the members who, after you appointed them two years ago, were chosen by lot. It was decided by the lot that their mandate would only last two years and the mandate of the others would last four years. Of course, it has been achieved that there are no major changes in the shifts in the body’s membership, but that we always have at least 50% continuity. And we're right now, or you're in a position to appoint these six new members today, actually seven, given that one of the members of the former in this period for the reason I said because of the president's illness, and that's why Professor Parac became president, so I say seven. Let me also remind you that the law also sets out the structure of this body, so twelve members plus the president, seven of them must be university professors, one from the field of teacher education, two high school teachers, two scientists employed in the scientific institute and two persons above the science system and higher education. Given all these circumstances that I have told us, three university professors and one high school professor and one scientist employed by a scientific institute and two persons outside the higher education system should be appointed today. Their predecessors had a two-year term. Of course, by preparing this point and yet according to the law, the Ministry announced an invitation to tender, or on two occasions, it did so in order to get as high quality as possible, as fully as possible, which spreads the circle of quality candidates. About 60 proposals submitted by the law of the prescribed broad circle of possible applicants have arrived. I assume you have the documentation I'm talking about, and by proposing the names of people among those who have been proposed except for this law established criteria of the council's structure, we've also taken care of additional elements, about scientific areas, we've taken care of the regions, so where the potential candidates come from. We took care first of all of the quality of course but if possible, we think it was possible to make and meet this requirement. So, to resolve because their term of office has expired, Professor Dr Amir Hamzic, who was a member of the Council, Professor of the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics of the University of Zagreb, is proposed. Next, professor Dr. Ivica Klapan professor of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb, Mr. Ivan Lasić, a member from Split, he is outside the system of higher education and science, Professor Branko Rafajac, a member of the Faculty of Philosophy, Master Niko Vidović, also outside the education and science system and professor Dr. Ivan Prskalo, a member who was elected on the basis of a professor of higher school. In fact, he was a high-ranking professor at the time, no longer exists, the High School of Teachers in Petrinja. Notably, one of these members became president in the meantime. Here's the solution. Mr. President, should I go right now with the new proposals? Thank you very much. So, taking into account the criteria and the legal and these additional ones that we're taking care of ourselves, we're proposing a total of seven new members instead of these. Here, let me tell you who these are. Sinisa Volarević, professor Dr. Sinisa Volarevic, professor at the University of Rijeka, Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka. It's proposed by the University. It was a scientific field of medicine and health care. The scientific field of medicine. So he's a university professor. The second proposal is Professor Branko Rafajac, formerly a member of the National Council for Higher Education. So the one that would have been resolved is whether the rating is the National Council and if you would allow me to tell myself personally to one of the people who carried a particularly large burden in that Council, the burden of social science. So Professor Branko Rafajac, University of Rijeka. Proposer is the University of Rijeka. The scientific field is social. Scientific fields are educational sciences and of course he's a university professor. The third name we propose is Professor Doctor of Science Vedran Sailor. Vedran Mornar is employed at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in Zagreb. It is proposed by the University of Zagreb. The area is of course technically. Scientific field of electrical engineering. He's a professor. From the high school system, we suggest Mr. Antu Babic. He works at the Zagreb School of Economics and Management. It is proposed by the council of higher education and higher schools. He's a Zagreber, the scientific field is social. The scientific field is economics. By teaching, teaching, not science-teaching, he's a high school teacher. He further suggests Professor Dr. Mladen Zimic. It's less important here that he's a professor but it's important that he's a scientist. He is employed at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. He's the director of that institution. He's proposed by the Institute of Molecular Medicine of the Institute. A Zagreber, then. The scientific field is natural. The scientific field is chemistry. And I said "employee" at the science institute. The last proposal is, last and last proposals for people outside the system of science and higher education. The first proposal is for Mr Ivan Misetic. He's employed in Croatia Airlines. It's proposed by one person, and it's legally possible. It is proposed by the doctor of science Mirko Talovic. He lives in Zagreb. So activity is social. The scientific field is an economy, and the person I repeat is outside the system of science and higher education. And finally another person outside the system of science and higher education is Mr. Ivica Mudrinic. The employment facility is the Croatian Telecom. It is proposed by the University of Zagreb, more specifically the Rector of the University of Zagreb. In Zagreb he is also, the scientific field is technically the field of electrical engineering. A person outside this system. Mr. President, I hope I've said everything I intended. If there's anything left I stand at your disposal... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86304	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. PGS representative club, SBH, NDS respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86305	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So let's say on behalf of the Regional Party Club that we won't support these changes. And we also do not support the work itself of the entire National Council. And so I'm asking the Secretary of State to answer some questions. So we'll take this opportunity. Last week in Vesnik we read the news that the National Council for Higher Education brings new criteria for the establishment of higher universities in Croatia. It is a study called a network of higher universities in Croatia that defines the criteria for the opening of new private and state higher education institutions and study programmes. So some new criteria are introduced so that if local communities want to encourage the establishment of a university out of their plan there will be nothing if, therefore, by that network if, for example, there are at least 100,000 inhabitants in the geographical area covered by the new university. The high school, however, could not open in an area of less than 30,000 inhabitants while a new university requires at least 650 thousand inhabitants. It also introduces a criterion of distance between two universities that will have to be at least 200 kilometers away. The distance between the university should be at least 100 kilometers and the high schools 50 kilometers. There I can only remind myself that this is what we could say in the conflict with both the Ministry's plan and all those initiatives of the Ministry itself that go towards it and that it plans to open universities and high schools. For example in Čakovec, Obuzen, Osijek, Sisak and Virovitica. The Ministry of Science notes that Croatia does not need new universities but plans to encourage the establishment of public and private universities and higher schools. We are therefore as regional parties against these criteria that promotes or announces this Council because of therefore logical developments because we advocate politic development, politicnitric schedule of universities, universities, higher schools as a condition of faster and better quality development throughout, the whole, the whole of Croatia. We also think that in this way we would solve the problems of certain environments, certain regions of our region that are currently struggling, for example the County of Međimurje is at the very bottom of Croatia as regards highly educated personnel. There are 7 and a half people in Croatia and 3 and a half people in Međimurje. Now we wouldn't have a chance to start a university, for example, because the town of Varazdin already has a university and it's 15 miles away from them, 20 kilometers away. And also by developing and setting up higher schools, universities, universities throughout Croatia would reduce the cost of studying because many students would not pay for accommodation as much as transport themselves, and we see that, therefore, we have announcements that there will be a tax on scholarships that will affect the increase in costs and therefore our studies and education. And on the other hand, we have big problems and a low level of education for our people. There. I'd like to ask if we can get an answer from the Ministry to see what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86306	Now, that will be the final review of Secretary of State Free Taker. Here you go. Because there's no one left to discuss Where did you sign up? [[I'm on my way!]] Who did you sign up for? To me? ... [[/Intruder: To you!]] The National Council of Science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, just say yes, yes, yes. No, I didn't. This one didn't come to me from this part of the table. That's what we're gonna do now. This is for higher education, this is for science. It's also for higher education. Yes, it is. It's not. Here's your esteemed representative. It's not. Yes, you signed up. ... It is for both high and second. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] For science. ... You don't want to get high? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It means high. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm afraid maybe Mr. Pavlic and I didn't understand each other very well. The theme that the gentleman is running is a little out of context, but praise is worth it anyway, so let me put in a few words. The National Council shall have a legally established obligation to keep an eye on a network of higher universities, a legal obligation, and not just a law, a obligation. Under this obligation, the National Council is working on a proposal for a network of higher universities and a proposal for a network of study programmes carried out by those higher schools. And indeed, in this proposal there are also criteria that should be adopted if such a proposal is adopted in the opening of particularly public, state, high schools, and that this is more necessary than clear because today's network that we have is quite irrational and is precisely this proposal for the benefit of politic development. It suggests a kind of demographicization of higher education. So, that these higher schools be more, not less, outside Zagreb, outside other university and other urban centres. In that sense, I'm afraid that's how we didn't understand each other, and I hope, almost to say that I am convinced that when you see the final proposal of that network that you will advocate the need to open higher schools and in Čakovec we have discussed this using this network as a document that will be attached to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86308	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of part of the so far and the appointment of part of the new members of the National Council for Higher Education. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes for, 7 abstentions and one against, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Secretary of State Prof. The recipient has already explained the principle of fulfillment which is very similar for both the National Council and the Science. After two years, half the council members change. Of course, not all of them are changed to maintain continuity and you have proposed decisions in addition to the amendment of 6 members and the motion to resolve the president so far since Professor Ivezić has been at his own request for health for a long time and has not been able to work effectively and has submitted a request to Mr. Minister and this body high to replace her. Now there are suggestions, I'm not going to read you as much in detail as Professor Taker. I will now only tell you what proposals are for new members and there is a full law in Articles 9 and 11. there is a principle of how this is being filled out. So, the new members will be Professor Jurković Drazenka from Osijek, professor Hrvoje Sikirić from Zagreb, academician Kršenić Frano from Dubrovnik, scientific adviser Đuro Miljanić from Zagreb, Drevenkar Vlasta scientific advisor from Zagreb, Pavelić Krešimir scientific consultant from Zagreb and Bago Darinko graduated engineer from Zagreb. As in the National Council for Higher Education, there is a small difference between 6 regular professors, 4 scientific advisors and 3 economic members and now de facto changing the president, 4 scientific advisors and one member from the economy. So here I would ask you then if there were 52 proposals, and that was 17 from natural sciences, 11 from technical, 9 from social, 6 from biotechnical, bioscience, and 2 from humanistic. Here, Mr. President, I wouldn't last any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86312	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go. Is that an individual or a club? All right, now. If you want, as you wish. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86313	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I only appeared once under this second point wanting to listen to one and the other introductions because our comments by the HNS Club are about the same and under one and the other subject, i.e. point. I would not be spreading the debate here on what counterpart Pavlic mentioned regarding the criteria for the establishment of a university, a university under the previous point, nor would I talk about the evaluation of scientific projects and the major failings that were made there. No doubt a few months ago about this second point, I would have stuck to something our club pointed out two years ago when we elected members of the National Council both for science and for higher education, which is next. My colleagues and colleagues, if the Croatian state has a development strategy, it is quite logical that we put everything on this development strategy and the clear work of these national councils, and that when we appoint members of the council, we choose people of those profiles and those scientific areas that are of primary interest to the development of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I was very pleased to hear you say that you respected the additional criteria you mentioned, you talked about scientific areas and the regions from which you chose, or proposed proposals. We agree, we respect. I personally know a part of the proposal. I have to say, they're great people, and there's no objection. However, we still believe that if we look at the profile of all the proposals and those now sitting in these bodies, the areas of exceptional importance for the development of Croatia such as tourism, agriculture, transport, foreign languages, information and communication sciences and technology are not sufficiently represented. And our proposal is that the government must be much braver to say this is our goal, this is the direction we're going in, we're going to primarily propose those proposals from these and those areas, very bravely. Because who will draw up the programmes to realize these goals if not people who know the content of direction and calling and professions in which we want to develop both education and scientific projects in this direction, etc. Therefore, here is our brief objection that we have not heard of this two years ago, nor today a single word because it would be extremely important to base the work of these national councils on Croatia's development strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86314	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86315	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, Mr. President. It is good for the government to take into account in general when it comes to state structures or certain bodies, bodies or organisations and minority representations. Today we have heard from the secretary of state that even regional representation has been taken into account. So I'm curious about how there are no women in all of this. I guess that's where women are found in these regions, I guess. You see here, in this proposal for a decision to appoint a president and part of a member of the National Science Council, however, there are two women, out of six candidates, even two women. A little and not enough. In the case of a proposal to appoint, therefore, part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education, not a single woman, inadmissible and discriminatory. If we look only to see women almost in primary school dominate, high school also as teachers, teachers, teachers, in colleges are mostly students who have previously graduated. Among the total population, the higher percentage of college-educated women. Women are the majority of our population. And where it's decided there are no women. And that's the thing that keeps repeating itself. And as much as we sometimes boast of some successes where women have prevailed in certain professions, that's why, it's just obvious. The reason is that suddenly there are fewer salaries, that men have found some better sources of profit and abandon such occupations. But here are these two government proposals showing the state of true equality of men and women in Croatia. And it's a clear delusion that women are discriminated against at some lower level. So it's one, it's one stereotype, and it's a completely incorrect fact, but it's often in public. Unfortunately, women are climbing in this larger social scale and at a higher level of education discrimination is greater. Therefore, it is also one of the delusions to exploit and discriminate on primitive, semi-primitative. That's not true. One of the greatest inventions of the last century, the structure of DNA, 90% were able to detect women, but they figure out those two colleagues who received the Nobel Prize and didn't even remember them mentioning them. But we should not have such practice in Croatia. We have valuable women scientists who deserve to be represented to a greater extent in the National Council for Science, and it is unacceptable not to find them in the National Council for Higher Education. ... [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86316	... I don't think so. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go, yeah. State Secretary Drazen Vicic Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86317	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86318	What about Mirogoya?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86319	Dear Madam MPs, I quickly calculated out of 52 people who applied for the National Science Council, 10 women were reported and 42 men. Of those 10 women are two chosen, so 20%. Of the men was selected 5, so 12&% rough. ... And listen, people answer themselves, you can't force them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86320	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the current president and part of the members and the appointment of a new president and part of members of the National Science Council. Please vote. I am voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes in favour and 8 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86323	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament. One of the basic principles on which the state administration is working is transparency and the adoption of the Law on the right of citizens to access information is one positive fact that this government respects and has made great efforts to apply this law as it is imagined in its spirit. The central state administration office was obliged to collect information from all public authorities, prepare a report the Croatian government adopted and sent to this esteemed House within the prescribed time limit. In the application of the Law on the right to access information, we have adopted all sublaws, all authorities have appointed responsible persons to exercise the right to access information. We have published the list of public authorities in accordance with the law in January this year as well as every year for this current year, and we are filing this report within the legal deadline. In addition to our year of supervision of the application of this law, we have also taken broad measures with regard to the education of civil servants who are obliged to implement this law so that at the Central State Administration Office in the organization of the office, the HHO and the Administrative Court, a consultation was held for civil servants, and our Academy of Local Democracy also in cooperation with the Administrative Court and the Personal Data Protection Agency began the process of education of local officials in charge of exercising the right to access to information. We intend to continue this process, educate as many people as possible in order to make the law applied as best as possible. The law was, in the first year, applied in 2004 and that year 19 thousand and 600 requests were received for access to information. We submitted our first report in the spring of 2005 and every year I believe that the report is getting better and better because we also respect the debate that is going to take place here. In 2005, 4000 and 499 applications were received and 4000 357 applications were submitted in 2006. The report shall state to the extent that the requirements have been met, as far as they have been granted to other bodies, because they have been submitted to bodies which did not possess that information and which remain unresolved at the end of the reporting period, only 93 requests, so a very small number. We can open a discussion of why the number has fallen rapidly and in the government we believe that this has occurred because of the transparency of the body of the state administration, because of the introduction of the institute of the car's website there are a large number of information and we believe that citizens can come, of course and with the help of the media, with the help of journalists who write about everything they are interested in and what the citizens are interested in, here we have come to the conclusion that the number of requests has been continued year after year and that something under 4.5 thousand requests has been stabilised somewhere. It's our duty and we'll do it, we'll continue the education process. In particular, we will put emphasis on the education of employees in local self-government units, because this is the weakest link and we will insist that this law is applied as best as possible and that each year the Croatian Parliament is presented with a better quality report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86324	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure, the political system? No, I don't. The Committee on Information, Information and Media? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86325	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2006. We need to know that the Law on the right to access information was passed at the end of 2003 and regulates therefore one issue of openness to the public and transparency of our public authorities' systems. This is one relatively new law and one relatively new area and so far we have only three reports for 2004, 2005 and this year for 2006. The law stipulates that public authorities are obliged to provide and ensure access to information by means of openness and public action of the public authority. The basic principle of action is the principle of the public. All information that our public authorities possess, which they have or which they supervise must be made available to interested authorities. So that's the basic principle. However, we must also say that there are also certain exceptions to this basic principle in the law and that this right to obtain information can be denied only in accordance with the law and that if it is a particular business, military, state-owned, professional secret. It can also be denied if any information would be made public, if it would lead to difficulties in any procedure, investigation or any other administrative procedure conducted before the state authorities, if it would also be disabled in such a way as to make certain information impossible for certain information to be published, that certain procedures led by public authorities to end in one way provided for by law. How does this right to information come true? It's accomplished in two ways. First, it means that natural and legal persons submit a request to receive specific information, to obtain an insight into a particular document, to present it to them, to provide them with documentation, to enable them to be consulted, but if there is a lack of information for these reasons which I have told them about, then the national authority is obliged to make a decision on the shortfall of information, this solution of authorised rights to the information shall have the right to appeal to the Head of Public Authority within 8 days. If the complaint is rejected, the authority shall have the right to appeal to the Administrative Court. So it's very clear both by law and precisely the prescribed path. The principle of the availability of information is also realized by the way that public authorities publish information in one appropriate way, whether in official messengers, whether through the media, through the press, through the web site, and as we see it quite well, and we agree with this finding by the secretary of state because we see that the number of requests in 2004 was 19 thousand, almost 20,000 requests, that in 2005 and 2006 it fell to a little less than 4 and a half thousand. So our public authorities are working in an open and transparent way where information is also available through these general methods, meaning not in one way where they individually seek some kind of information. What about this report? The report is very correct, very transparent. We have, in particular, public authorities from competent ministries, from the Government, from the Parliament, from the Administrative Court, from the Constitutional Court, from commercial courts, from lawyers, we have precisely written down how many requests have been received, how many requests have been solved, how many cases have been rejected by the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court has refused the suit, so that even the individual descriptions of certain requests are listed so that this is indeed one very, very reviewed document from which questions are seen and on which questions arise and who is responding and who is seeking some information from our bodies of public authorities. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report and we can only conclude that the system must not only be efficient, but it must be both transparent and open because transparency and openness is actually in itself an anti-corruption one measure. It actually defends, makes it impossible for certain abuses to occur, certain violations of the law to occur. The Croatian Democratic Community Club therefore supports this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86326	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86327	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The area of access to information was regulated by the same law in 2003, at the end of 2003, and at the time was an exceptional progress in the relations between citizens and state institutions. The citizen, therefore, was no longer a small object in front of a large state apparatus, without any rights, but was able to ask questions about it, and this state apparatus, bodies with public authority had to answer questions, provide him with the requested information no matter how uncomfortable it was at some point for those bodies. It was an important initial step. The time has come, however, after years of critical assessment of this Law, its effects, its achievements, and together we all try to find ways to improve this relationship between citizens and bodies with public authority. The law has been faced with certain restrictions since the beginning. Two basic restrictions in the application of this Act are two other laws. In order to protect national security and to protect basic data, natural persons are required to access information by two laws, the Data Protection Act and the Data Protection Act. By reading this report, we see that by calling for Article 8. The laws of bodies with public powers do not usually satisfy citizens' demands precisely because they find the reason for this in these two laws. Something means a state secret or something protected personal information so a citizen can't get the information he wants. It will be unusually important that in this first law, the Data Protection Act whose changes are in the process, the first reading has passed, we are not restrictive, we see the danger that if we extend the possible application of this law then we will significantly narrow down citizens' right to access information. The second major obstacle to the application of this Act is that the bodies of the public authorities which are obliged to act under this Act have not achieved sufficient level of education in order to implement it properly. It's not weird at the beginning years, but it takes time for people to get fit, to understand the law, but now, after all these years, it would be time to critically analyze the situation and see if we've done enough as a community in this regard. Here, and the secretary of state said that the most difficulties lie in the bodies of the local self-government unit. Probably because of the needyness. A large number of public authorities did not comply with this law because they did not form information services, did not form a catalogue of information, did not make available data which they were obliged to publish. ... There's a lot of examples, we're not gonna bring them up here right now, but let's just say the Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the letter of this law, the ministry is obliged to publish draft laws. It is an unusually important thing in the legislative process. She's not just a formal nature. Why are they publishing the bill? So, why publish the law when it's still in the design phase and it hasn't even come to the government yet, it hasn't become a bill, it doesn't even know if it's going to become a bill? And even when it does, there's no telling how it's going to go in the Parliament or if it's going to become the law at all. Well, why is it important to publish it, make it available to the public at that earliest stage? To allow some kind of public debate. So that we can enable the citizens to get involved best. That's precisely because it's an early phase of the law, because there's no politics there. There's still no politics playing, politics only comes in line when the bill comes to Parliament. This can include the professional public, the interested public, the widest form of the public. And yet here, fly over the web. Ministry pages, they are rare, they are rarely listed on their fingers as examples when the ministries respected this unusually useful request. Not only the manual, but also the request under this law. Furthermore, the definition of public authorities is unclear. It's a further obstacle to the implementation of this law. And the list of bodies of public authorities has not been published anywhere. I tried to get a list of the bodies of the public authorities. It's not there. There's no such document. Well, then we don't even have a specific application of this law, we don't know who he's dealing with individually. There are sometimes silences from the administration, i.e. deaf public authorities at the request of citizens for information. And then, what can the citizens do? Nothing. Then they start administrative disputes. The example is known when an example of a journalist, Radio 101, denied such information or denied it, but simply disobeyed its request. She started the administrative dispute and won the administrative dispute. And then the prime minister only after the administrative court's ruling delivered the information, right? It is not good when we have such a useful law that then bodies with public authority don't particularly know, state bodies, ministries, and especially the prime minister, don't respect such a law. So that citizens have to influence the Administrative Court. It's a shame for the whole country, it's a shame for whoever you let act like that. But it's not even good for the democratisation of our entire society. There's a paradox in the law. This is that the second-degree body, or body which decides on the complaints of the applicant, is, in fact, the same body that denied the information. The head of that body. We don't actually have a second-degree procedure here. There's a two-stage procedure here. So some body deny information, a citizen complains. Who decides on that appeal? The head of that same body. Ha, he also made a decision to deny information. So we don't have a two-stage procedure here. And that's one of the illogicalities of that law that the paradox should actually correct. Why are all these difficulties coming up now? And how could they be overcome in the simplest way at the benefit of the entire community? So, not to the benefit of this or that party, one or that government, for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of the entire community. The problem seems to be that there is no independent and independent body that will oversee law enforcement. The state administration office certainly isn't. Why? For two reasons. First, he himself is one of the bodies that is obliged to provide information. It's just a liability to that law. Secondly, the State Administration Office is the government's body. The head is appointed by the Government. It's not an independent body. By definition, it is not an independent body in relation to the government and the ministry, so it is not the most appropriate to control the application of this law. There is no meaning of an independent and independent body which would further assess the public interest of publishing data in the event that some competent authorities refuse to give an insight into data for, say, data protection. So, I can apologize, we don't give that information now because it's some kind of secret, right, and we can't give it to you. The state's office can't or can't, he doesn't even have the authority to do it, to judge whether it's a secret or not, and to deny the information. We need an independent body that would judge whether public interest is stronger than interest to protect some data because someone put some kind of a stamp up there that it's some kind of secret, maybe not because it's a secret there, but to protect their own private interest so that some things don't come out in public. So that's where we'd need an ombudsman. There is therefore no independent and independent body which would decide to appeal against a solution of the public authority when it refuses to provide information to the applicant because, as we have said, there is the absurdity. This condition I would dare call it bad this report confirms, implicate he confirms it. ... Report yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Report, let me explain how it confirms this poor condition. The report confirms this because it is not a critical analysis of law enforcement. He's not or can be. He just can't be. He does not mention all these shortcomings and limitations that are objective in nature. There's little subjective here, but most of it's objective. And he's not offering any solutions. It offers no solutions, does not analyse the problem and does not offer Parliament a solution. What is this report? He's the sum of the reports that the bodies themselves gave. And by the statistics of the number of requests received, solved, rejected. On the other hand, I agree he's correct. You can't say there's some fake data in there. He's correct. But he's not a report. He shouldn't actually wear that name that bears the law enforcement report. This is some statistics on the number of requests received and the answers submitted. The problems are so far wider. All these problems should also be discussed if a real report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is to be written. As a result, they do not show an objective state in the application of the law, and it actually creates an illusion of how the law is implemented in the best possible way and how it is all ideal. And everything is, reality is far from ideal, very far away. This report has not even been passed by the parent board. He fell on the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Perhaps the plenary session will take care of the fact when it decides. In June of last year, the SDP sent a proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information. This body, the Commissioner for Information, would remove all these ambiguities that I spoke about and improve the relationship between citizens and state bodies. Unfortunately, HDZ is the parliamentary majority, they rejected the proposal, rejected the idea of an information commissioner. What can we read from that now? The problems exist, they are evident. They're impossible to hide. We've written them down, we've established them, we've offered a solution, a relatively simple solution, let's make it, we've established the Commissioner who's going to make all these... But then that offered solution is rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? What's the reason to say no? And obviously we have to conclude that most people don't care about strengthening citizens' right to access information, they don't just care. He doesn't want to. Most people don't want to. If he doesn't want to, then we need to take this report as one that's not an objective view of the situation. It is only statistics not and objective representation of the situation and SDP compared to this report and remains neutral in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86328	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86329	Yes, Mr. Vice President, one correction. A colleague said, unfortunately, the majority of the HDZ is parliamentary. He is fortunate to the Croatian people most fortunately, not unfortunately. It's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86330	I understand. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86331	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If it's to judge by the will of this government, this is the last time we're discussing a report like this. There won't be any more need. In fact, there's a code of confidentiality in the procedure. Under the law, every official, every officer, every department chief, every municipality chief, every mayor, every department chief in the ministry, every assistant minister, or as they will now be named under the new system, will have the right to declare the information he produces with secrets. The citizens here have nothing more to ask. And why should they ask? Ask what? It's all secret. So this report will be unnecessary, and we'll have one less point next year, of course, if it's how this government wants it to be. If that's the case, then the data will be classified, and the others will be very secret, the third one will be very secret, the fourth one will be secret. This report is statistics. In that sense, it is, of course, true. There's no reason not to be true, but there's no attitude in it, there's no suggestion, there's no attitudes, there's nothing about what the rapporteur reports, the reporter actually thinks about the whole situation. However, those views were given by the citizens and this is a fine view of the report in this chart. The first year of law enforcement has brought 20 thousand questions for data insight. Then the citizens figured out what it was, that they weren't getting any information that they were interested in and they stopped doing the job. In the second year, it's 4.5 thousand, so it fell to 4 grand, and that's how it's going this year. If this were the result of better information and better data-received opportunities through web sites, I don't know what, through the media, then that fall would be gradual. So in the first year it would be 20, in the second 18, third 16 etc. until there are some small numbers that should actually stand by the logic of things. But it's not like that. The first year is 20 and the second year is 4.5. It seems that all data can be obtained in Croatia except for those that should be reached by those who are interested in them. What's the result? As a result, every week and now the day-to-day scandals with state officials, officials, firms, these, the ones that arise from the fact that the public had no insight into the data before that scandal, didn't know what was going on. The scandals were so common that they grabbed each other by the tail and none ended but began next. Apparently, no one has any intention of solving scandals and they pop up like mineral water bubbles, they're potentially here because things are covered up. This report if we accept it as it is, so according to that data, and that this data is all that needs to be said and everything that needs to be said about the right of citizens to access data. We live in the best possible world, we have the best possible power and it is in the best possible way completely open to the citizens. The Croatian People's Party club really doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86332	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86333	You tell your colleague that soon everything in this country will be a secret. He won't. It won't be a secret. Whether the fact that citizens will no longer be able to ask any more questions for them will be a source of happiness or not. For his colleague Peronja, it is already clear that he is already happy about this moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86334	This isn't a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86335	He said it would be a secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86336	Well, you have no right to answer to Mr. Peronja. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86337	Well, a respected colleague, Vuljanic, said in his statement that the citizens realized that no one was giving them information, so they actually stopped reporting. So in 2004, we have 19 and some thousand demands, and now just over 4 grand. I do not think that reduction is due to citizens being discouraged by the fact that they are not being contacted by those who need information, but simply because of the transparency and openness of the work of our public authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86338	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86339	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, not for this point, but otherwise, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information can, of course, be interpreted according to its own opinion, be given these and those preferences when it comes to feeling or when it comes to statistics and showing citizens' interest from the beginning of the application of the law from 2004 to 2006. Like any report, it's clearly subject to different grades. What is extremely important to us at the HSS Club and what is, in some way, a priority that should be expressed in these interests, which is how citizens know that they can consume these rights that we have today. So since 2003, when the law was passed, the key question is how did we educate or create such an ambience among citizens that they have a sense or know or know that in certain issues that they are interested in and that do not necessarily imply that their rights are injured, but simply want to know something about some information. You see, when, seven, eight years ago, the tax administration felt that it was necessary to affirm citizens not to leave any consumer facility without an account, then they introduced a massive aggressive campaign to tell citizens that taking an account was not only their right but also their obligation. We have reached one level today when we talk about this, about that level of consumer society that almost without exception where the code in Croatia was found, drank coffee, bought anything you will get an account for it. I'm sorry, '93. This was not the case for years, regardless of the condition that was in Croatia. I think I'm going to say that one elaborate action of the Ministry of Finance that has been permanently implemented has brought about this résumé of quality. It's the same case in a whole series of other areas. Consciousness, informing citizens is something that is the primary prerequisite for something to be implemented. So you can't fully implement this law on access to information if I say, I don't know what statistical analysis it is if, say, 50% of citizens don't even know that they can use the law. Second, he disagreed with Mr. Palaric when he said the biggest problems were local self-government and lower levels. It may be so in terms of the preference of citizens in the number that they read. This year 4000 507. However, I believe that local self-government has one other institute and instrument of action in which citizens can participate in the search for information, especially in small units of local self-government. Because elections are the best measure of whether the government that works is right or wrong. And every four years there will be punishment, or rewarding the facts. Therefore, these citizens, I would disagree if they had been denied information. They can obtain their information through authorised representatives, through their councilors, through their parties, over thousands of ways at the end and through direct search for information. I don't know how it would be now that I would be better positioned if I asked the central office to explain to me what's going on in the Kieva Municipality, living alone in the Kieva Municipality and to explain to me what the decision is. I don't know what the quality of this information from Zagreb would be transferred through the central office. So I don't think the main problem is the local and the lower so-called. The level of traffic. I don't think it is, that she has her own outcome that is far easier and far more efficient to solve. The elections are the best indication, the standard and he, we don't need to measure citizens' feelings, they know very well how they will level it and show it in local elections. When it comes to central public authority, then there are somewhat different parameters, criteria. Why? Because you don't have a choice to carry out such relationships, but you have each other's national elections. In these national elections, you do not evaluate public administration officials at any headquarters, but you have your own preferences. And that is where the task of accessing information is now to be shown in the form in which it satisfies you. And by the way, we in Croatia know that we want to get ahead of everything that actually isn't the kind of interest of our citizens, so we're trying to make a big deal out of a little thing, and we're not ready to discuss big things. Furthermore, what would be the priorities when it comes to further developing citizens' right to access information? In what way do you come up with it in some way? I don't know how to comment in 2004 with about 20,000 demands and 2006 with 4 thousand and 300. It can be interpreted one way or another. It's completely irrelevant to me because it can be interpreted one way or another. But in any case, it is necessary to try to create what are the priorities in order to improve the situation in that area that we keep particularly sensitive. In my view, it is necessary to discuss this report with a dose of caution until the Data Protection Act is passed is which will definitely direct those structures in which data are simply protected and see if it is the the thesis that I return to the units of local self-government whether they should have a system of possible protection of certain data? Whether they should be in this order of protection to say so, as well as the state authorities, or those structures that really have one aspect that can be called a national sensitive framework in which there must be certain things that are under the protection of the state. Who are under protection so as not to cause damage that will ultimately be exposed to the public but also to which citizens will be affected. Therefore, it is necessary to see, in the objectives that we wish to set in further implementation of this law, how exactly the Data Protection Act will reflect, and the Law itself on the right to access information whether it is necessary to build on certain measures that would encourage citizens more strongly to show them exactly which rights they have opportunities or more precisely which rights they can use even in case they are denied better said. But I really don't think that's priority at the level of local self-government and regional and regional, because I think there are other frameworks but the main rights that citizens can't have and can be abolished is in the bodies of the state administration. In central government. Local self-government says it has its own natural institutions or tools to which all those who do not behave as citizens would like to sanction. Far easier and far away, I'd say more principled than real central government can. So that these changes, both in terms of the objectives that we are planning to achieve and the goal really is not for us any politics but for the reality that citizens who have been denied, who believe that they cannot get certain information which they have been interested in in terms of private information, either in terms of interest for their own needs. Whether in terms of the exercise of the rights they have under the law or cannot reach them, in any way they come. They should be simplified, and they should be considered normally in institutionalised form in which citizens could knock more easily, ring that door and come up with information that they need and separate and the two levels of relations mean local self-government for us at the HSS Club should be put on one side. And the tools that will be used at this level of demand for information put into a single order of size and the central state authority that is yet separate, which still generates something special exposes it to a more restrictive view, a more restrictive way of setting up the one that will provide information when citizens ask for it. That's why I think we're going to be far smarter and we're going to know far more in which direction the law on access to information goes in the first place when we get the Final Proposal for a law on the protection of the confidentiality of information to see if everything is really protected. So that actually this bill will no longer and will not be so right and full of function or we will create a truly frame of what I was talking about that we at the HSS Club would like those two things to be shared so that we have that level of information that citizens can influence and where they have their ability to give an assessment of it and of this central state government where citizens need to create very clear opportunities not only to seek information but to be given exactly timely information and that they know that they can get it and where they can get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86340	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, distinguished representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86341	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the right to access information provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report by 30 March at the latest on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information to the Croatian Parliament and for the previous year. The Act of Government shall bear the date of 9 March. So not only did the government stick to the deadline but more than that. The deadlines are laid down by law. It must also be admitted that they are very tight. By 31 January, public authorities shall submit a report to the Central State Administration Office and this shall submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 28 February. Reports contain a large number of data. You and the data obtained were processed and we got a very interesting statistic. The reporting year is therefore the third year of application of this Act in 2006. The law was passed in 2003 before the end. And what goes right into your eyes? This is the number of requests received for access to information. In 2004, 19 thousand 600, in 2005 4000 499 and 2006 4000 357. Obviously, there is a small difference in 2005 compared to 2006 but compared to 2004 and 19 thousand 600 requests. The difference is obviously huge. But I think and I'm sure that's why there's a completely acceptable explanation. The first year of law enforcement was certainly a test. The expectations of some authorities have gone too far. They were well-moved from the framework of this law, and then this resulted in such a large number of requests mostly unwarranted and, unwarranted and unfounded. And that this is how it shows and proves exactly the 2006 data compared to 2005. It's almost even. That's the difference between maybe 3%. It also proves that the whole system works. Of course, not everything and everywhere is ideal, but it cannot be denied that everything has happened and settled in relatively short time since the application of this law began. I was at the beginning of the application of this law on local self-government, and I know what it looked like, what all the demands were, what absurd limits that went down to. I think that we can be satisfied and welcome this report as evidence of the democratisation of society, as evidence of the permanent democratisation of society, unfortunately those who persistently dispute these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86342	The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86343	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am just sorry that my colleague Stazic came out because it would be useful to put the best emphasis on this particular report which confirmed that the adoption of the law on access to information was actually one big newspaper, a big newspaper for those who deal in practice law whether they were lawyers, whether they were lawyers in companies different, whether they were also persons who were interested in any way and in what way these laws and regulations apply. Because freedom of information, as mentioned in this report, is a fundamental human right protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the Convention on Access to Information, International Contracts and Provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And all of this is important to emphasize by keeping in mind today's technological possibilities for all of this information. The law on the right to access information obliges all public authorities to publish information both state and local, i.e. all legal persons entrusted with public authority in the Republic of Croatia as well as other persons to whom public powers have been transferred. It's very important to have the right to access information. Therefore, for every commendation that a seminar for Information Officers was held in the Central State Office at the Centre for Professional Training and Training of Officials in the first quarter of 2006 and I stress this in cooperation with the Croatian Helsinki Committee on Human Rights. So, one permanent education for officials, for the information that this job is done in the bodies of the units of local self-government and regionally I would stress, because it is a growing practice that in the counties that want to be truly a real waste of good projects, entrepreneurial approaches, but also democratic principles set up information services and special persons dealing with speaking. Which should in particular still be highlighted and reiterated that, nevertheless, from this report, if this is in one clear way supported by all the numbers and allegations that all bodies of the public authorities that were obliged to provide organisational, material, technical and other conditions for the implementation of the provisions of the law have many not done so. We often forget that working conditions are a prerequisite for the service, especially the state administration. He's here for every commendation just respecting the deadlines. This morning, we had the opportunity to highlight this in the Law on Student Assembly, and here we repeat exactly what colleague Štengl said that the legal obligation was to submit the reports of all bodies of public authority on the implementation of the law for the previous year until 31 January, with the fact that the office submitted a complete report to the Government by 28 February for the previous year, and the Government was obliged to submit a report by 31 March at the latest on the implementation of the law to the Croatian Parliament, and today it is 29 March, which shows that if the deadlines set by law should be respected in spite of all and any obstacles and that there is no excuse. Statistics say which items have been positively solved, how many are negative, how many have been unsolved, which has been rejected, and which has been deviated from the competent authorities. Starting with the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court, where it is said that all questions have been fully answered, which strengthens us in the desire that the right to oversee the work of the public authority must continue to be strengthened and that there is no reason for any different deviation, regardless of the possible law, it is known what is the official secret of the ZPP, it is known by the Law of Military Obligation which is a military secret. These are only exceptions to this rule and should therefore be commended once again by this report almost mathematical precision, because this approach contributes to a greater professionalisation of the work and procedures of state employees, which increases citizens' trust and better work and evaluation of the work of the public administration, and certainly that the dam is of any kind of corruption, bribe because everyone's interested will get a valid and real answer almost in the summary of the document that they are looking for. That's why this report should be fully supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86344	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86345	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, I'll join this commendation a little bit, but I've agreed with Mr. Secretary of State that there's no need to exaggerate. This is how the right to access information has great importance because the demystification of the work of the public authorities reduces the possibility of politicisation, abuse, speculation and constraint of corruption into real frameworks. For information to be timely and effective, the Central Management Office organizes seminars we read for information officers. She participates in round tables, consultations and scientific conferences on information and data confidentiality protection. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2006 already shows significant results of the operation of the office as the number of requests received for access to information has fallen to slightly more than 20% compared to 2004. Unsettled requirements were only 2% and around 4% were granted to other competent authorities and all about 1% were rejected somewhere. It is normal to draw the most attention to exactly this rejected request, so the example in the report shows that this is about searching for information that is protected by the secrecy of data and data that penetrates personality and privacy. Here is an interesting example where the Agency for Local Economic Development, the business centre Sisak requests from the Croatian Employment Service to supply a list of unemployed persons, let's say, up to 35 years old with their home addresses and other data. Now the normal requirement would not be rejected if the number of unemployed persons with qualifications were sought, I say it from my own experience because we often asked for some data from the office and that collaboration with the office was really good. The fact is, there is a huge disproportionateity between the number of unemployed and employability. In addition to the unemployed, which are older age, the abuse of the use of benefits given by the Institute and normal work on black, possibly from there and the demand for complete data. So I'm not surprised at the request because I've often come up with such a request, but I still don't wonder if it's been rejected or just can't go public in private. Unfortunately, many employers can't hire workers from the Bureau because they don't want to. From the available examples of rejected applications, the justification of the rejection decisions is visible. A less convincing response to the lack of data. I see in a few, it was there, we have no data, because the requested data could be found from other sources. It's easier, for example. to local self-government to get some data than to data seekers. That the Government is working transparently is of only 12 requests for access to information, and I see that the Croatian Parliament all requests, so after it is clear these are the wave phonograms of the debate as far as I have seen, the motions of the act, etc. So he solved all the demands. It is known that when the media lack information, they reach out to semi-information, which often causes a lot of damage. And I must say that the report on the implementation of this Law on the right to access information for 2006 has been made quality and that it should normally be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86346	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Didovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86347	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report as well as similar others should show whether and to what extent the laws adopted are implemented. This is particularly important when it comes to laws that have been passed in Croatia for the first time in the last few, five or six years, and one of these laws is this law on the right to access information that was passed in October 2003 in the Croatian Parliament. What is very significant to me, and colleagues have mentioned only from another opposite point of view, these are precisely these indicators of an annual comparison of the requirements received per year by the authorities addressed by the citizens. It is equally indicative of the assessment itself in this report, the assessment of the supervision and implementation of the Law on Access to Information by the Central State Administration Office. So this report on page 5 through this chart clearly shows that the number of requests from citizens addressed by public authorities in 2004, which was precisely the first year of application of the Law on the right to access information, compared to the next two years. So the number of nearly 20,000 citizens' requests for access to information sent to public authorities in 2004 fell sharply in 2005 and 2006. In 2006, the number was 4000 and 350 applications. The opinion of the offices listed in this report is that the reasons for the reduced number of requests received are in the fact that I quote: Authors of access to information are familiar with the information owned by public authorities and in the fact that public authorities regularly publish information on their websites, info-telephones, in the media, in official newspapers. It would certainly be very good if such a high degree of openness were achieved by the public authority and that there is such a degree of availability of information that citizens in this situation do not need to further demand for rights and access to information at all. Despite these reasons, the office remains a key issue. Are citizens in general satisfied with the right to access information. And it would be good to hear here from the office representatives the answer to that question, because representatives of the office besides having in mind the number of requests themselves probably also have insight into the content and quality of the response to these requests of citizens, and above all the insight into the number of outstanding questions and in cases so-called. The silence of the administration. There's something I'd like to say about that right now. Namely, the Law on the right to access information provides for the openness and public action of the public authority and the right to access information to natural and legal persons. Therefore, as long as there is an assessment of the so-called so-called. The silence of the administration, and what we find in this report, cannot be talked about the particularly effective implementation of this Law on the right to access information. According to the data and analysis of the office in this 2006 report, it is therefore apparent that in 80% of the cases of units of local and regional (regional) self-government do not comply with the legal deadlines for the resolution of citizens' performances and that so-called The silence of the administration. So that's what's exactly the opposite of the purpose of passing one of these laws. This is contrary to all those initiatives that lasted during the adoption of the law in 2003 when a number of public debates were held, more than 17 NGOs who even published a joint public statement titled "publicity has the right to know". It was a long-standing campaign that warned about the importance of passing such a law in Croatia. Therefore, the law sought to enable public authorities to make available wide access to official documents and any information useful for the development of society. This regulates society, promotes the effectiveness of the administration, and what is particularly important is the reduction of corruption, as the public participates in matters of public interest. It is therefore important in the future that the body is currently working here to monitor this implementation of the Law. It is very important that the body or any other office or office, in future, publish in its reports as much as possible the data on the structure and number of requests received from public authorities by citizens as possible, as well as the assessment of the quality and content of the response to those requests. This is the key to what is missing in this report, and only then do I actually consider myself able to see the degree of openness of the body of the public authority, and then, of course, the implementation of the very spirit of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86348	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86349	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Realising the right to access information is actually a very important assumption for several important segments of social, democratic life, so if you want a personal position of citizens. First, it is very much to obtain information and, on the basis of it, to exercise its own rights and freedoms established by the Constitution and the law or to protect possible injured rights and freedoms by public information holders and public authorities. Secondly, it enables a citizen or anyone seeking information on the monitoring and information of work, including direct control of the work of public authorities, state institutions, local and regional self-government bodies, state administrations, administrative organisations and, of course, public authorities. Third, access to information or the possibility to come based on access to information enables information from citizens and all stakeholders of social relations in the fight against possible abuse of rights, bribes and corruption. Of course, it is, therefore, the right to access information can be achieved, it must be present in daily work, not only in the performance of functions and tasks of public duties, but also in public authorities and organisations with public authority. Of course, the right to access information must provide such information as is prescribed by the law itself, and it says that such information must be as is generally known based on principles relating to accuracy, completeness, equality, the public, the right to have information and then, of course, such principles as it says in this report must provide information that they possess, monitor and make available to them by the public authorities in order to make them available to the interested authorities of that right. Now, when this aspect is viewed, it is then necessary to see that the reduction in the number of requests that certain information is sought from individual authorities is actually a kind of positive figure in this report. Why? Because it points out that the law in that second segment has begun to be far more effective where virtually bound by the provision of information, in fact, according to the law, they start to regularly publish themselves information that is important for the exercise of these rights and the protection of rights by citizens and legal persons themselves and whether they give that information to official newspapers, media, I don't know by info phone or if you want on their websites. What I want to point out here is the fact that for me, too many of the requests that have remained unresolved, even 93, that as many as 49 requests have been rejected, because you know if it is one of the requests that has been rejected, which have been violated by the Constitution guaranteeed the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, then it is a serious question where 49, and with that 73 requests have been made to the competent authorities. In fact, it should be recalled once again that the Law on Access to Right Information is actually developing a guaranteed right of information, and in this respect it is very, very important to see some of these issues that are important. The second thing that is important is the question that the right to access information is only created properly if you want court practice and that in this respect we will have more to say. The third thing that arises is possible dualism between individual laws that open up the possibility, the truth by the Constitution it is only possible by law to limit the right to access information, but if such a trend is continued that is offered in the Data Secrecy Act, among other things and that discussed somewhere almost in the Assembly then it is possible to actually open a new... an inappropriate and incomplete restriction on the right to access information which can actually lead to the fact that the right to access information becomes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or naked right, and that basically this lex specialis we actually allow under the company or under the protection of classified information to occur a practical exemption from the application of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the last thing I wanted to say was the fact that I expected this report to be also based on the principles and obligations arising from the Information Law. This will say that it is true, understandable, that you understand, that it must be as it says, among other things, available, etc., so we are not clear why it is possible, for example, on page 7, that it is written at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 2 the natural persons submitted 27 requests, one application was submitted by a legal person, and 9 requests for access to information were submitted by different associations. And what are associations but legal persons? Well, I guess those who put these reports together must know that. Secondly, the fact is that there should be more participation of workers in decision-making and management of companies and public affairs in the Republic of Croatia where they appear, especially as small directors and employees, but it is also a fact that whether we regret it or praise it, however, it is a fact that we do not have more work advice in Croatia. But if you look at this report on page 37 under paragraph 6 of one case, I quote among other things: "It is necessary to consult with the working advice and the competent employment service.", etc., etc. Therefore, it is obvious that this report is also written if I may say so, you know, to do the job, to be informed because the deadlines took place, first at the end of February to deliver the report to the competent office of the state administration, and then by the end of March, the Government should submit that report to the Parliament. And what surprised me, you know, everyone expects Parliamentarians to read any material they're discussing. And that's kind of logical. But MPs can help volunteers, citizens, voters, etc., who will inform them about this material... What is expected, however, is not expected to be sent or sent by the legislator to a congregation procedure that has not been read. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I'm sure if anyone had read this, at first it would be clear to him that associations are also legal persons. And secondly, it would be clear to him that the working council is no longer in Croatia and such mistakes would not be made by pardon, such misinformation would be offered to the Croatian Parliament, as it is a report on access to the right information. I've cited these few examples, I might have a few more but there's no need. I'm just saying that the report on the right to information wasn't done as required by the Access Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86350	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, we got something to be honest with, I don't even know what it's supposed to be. It is mostly, these things are obtained in such a way that Mr. Palaric sends the district to all those who should report something. And then whoever sends what he sends, and then it's added up to some kind of house, and there's something that we should have as a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Beautiful. In this report, there is no word of who violated the Law on the right to access information, how he violated it, why he violated it at all, did everyone respect the Law on the right to access information? Not a word. But we just got so many demands. We solved them like this, anyway. And it comes down to pure, ordinary statistics. But that's still good. We got at least something this year. We won't get anything for a year. Because it's very likely this kind of sum, this kind of statistics won't be, because in the meantime we've passed the law, we actually had in the first reading of the Censorship Act. It's the confidentiality law I've been calling the Censorship Act for miles. There, we've allowed all kinds of characters to have and to have any data in this country to declare that information to be classified and that no one can get to it. This means that the Data Securitisation Act simply agreed the Law on Access to Information, and this report will probably contain not 19,000 as the first year, not 4000 as the second year or third year, but next year will be zero, because no more information will be public. Because every local fairy tale will determine that some of the data is strictly p.p., p.r. or p.m. Not to say what. And gentlemen, I think this is the last time we have to discuss any report. And about this, what is this and where is the assessment of the situation and what and what are the activities of the office and where is the supervision of law enforcement, where is it well stated what should be done not a word about what is done? And it is well established that the right to inform the defenses against corruption and abuse. If this is how we protect information, it means we protect corruption. If we have passed such a law on the secrecy of information, that is why we have declared it a secret, we have also passed a law on the protection of those who steal, on the protection of those who engage in corrupt activities and on the protection of all those who work against the law. And then this is our report here, today let's look at it, let's read it, because it's very likely that if we adopt a code of secrecy like this, this must be the last report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86352	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86353	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I just can't agree with my colleague, and I have to correct his claim that the confidentiality law is the Censorship Act. Buddy, that's a little different. According to him, it would certainly be a ban on information like "Conning" and similar things there, and thank God we investigated it while there was no law yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86354	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86355	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2006. I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2006 is adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour and 17 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86356	Let's move on to the next one. - Final draft law confirming the Rotterdam Convention on the procedure of prior consent for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade - emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 650 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86357	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Rotterdam Convention in the procedure of prior consent for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 94 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86358	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final draft law confirming the European Convention on the Legal Protection of Services based on conditional access and services provided by conditional access – emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 646 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. There's no record of the hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing today's session. Tomorrow is the sequel at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Encouragement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-29-0.u86359	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Legal Protection of Services based on conditional access and services provided by conditional access. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 91 votes for and one abstention passed Law. ... Resume session. [[Home is not saved.]] Discussion on : - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, first reading of P.Z. No. 647 Proposer is Government, first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Environment, spatial planning and construction minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
