ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84713	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the SDP Club proposes a vote of mistrust by Minister Vukelic for his political responsibility and roles as chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board. About the affair, I wouldn't, for a long, long time, for over a year. There's been a lot of talk here. Just some objective facts. In line with the declared government policy at the head of companies of particular social interest, ministers are placed and this is fine with the level of the fact that the state is the owner of these companies and wants to take care of them. The fact is that Minister Vukelic has approved disputed contracts that come after police investigations today, Interpol investigations and all that has happened to have been harmful to "Brodosplit" or that there are strong doubts that they are harmful to the "Brodosplit" with Mr Vukelic being warned at meetings of the supervisory board about the harmfulness of these contracts. That's where he showed what we can call irresponsibleness in view of the function he was acting at the time. I would point out that today when it is said that there were more favourable offers that in 19.7.2005 "Marin Fest", "Marin West" is the second company to offer the construction of 4 "panamex" tankers at a lower price today than it was accepted in the contract. So "Marin West" e-mailed him to inform both the administration and Mr. Vukelic of the offer. The fact for Minister Vukelic meant nothing, so I can conclude, and that is how we conclude, given that he went all the way to supporting the conclusion of contracts from which they are now harmful under "Brodosplit". So for taxpayers, for Croatian citizens whose interests he as a member of the government and minister, I would say one of the most important ministries would be in charge of protecting. Moreover, the fact is that those who pointed out the harmfulness of such contracts went badly. Thus, the Supervisory Board, led by Mr. Vukelic, replaced a member of the Board who was in charge of finance because he refused to sign those suspicious transactions. That fact I don't think it can be ignored in all of this because if you replace a man who is in charge of the administration to deal with finances because he warned you of the potential damage to the contract and do so by the power of the Supervisory Board decision headed by a minister who supports such a decision, then we can talk about a poorly done job and about the poor protection of the interests of Croatian citizens whose money appears to have been spent in some suspicious transactions in this case. The fact is that HABOR refused to carry out contractual transactions arising from the so-called ‘HABOR’. "above" letters on the basis of which Brodosplit paid 6 million US dollars on October 12th 2005. HABOR only agreed to issue an advance guarantee that the job did not fail but did not want to hear about "resulting" letters. It is also a fact that Minister Vukelic as chairman of the Supervisory Board after the affair occurred and after he intervened with the FBI, Interpol and the entire public, doubting that it was money laundering he did nothing to determine the truth. And he had instruments at his disposal as chairman of the Supervisory Board. He had responsibility as Minister of the Croatian Government. He had responsibility as the owner's representative, which is the Croatian state to do so. Not only did he have those instruments, but he had to put them in motion to say so. He didn't start internal surveillance, he didn't run an internal audit, even though he had to do it for one reason. To protect the interests of Croatian citizens, for which the minister is also. I was personally surprised by the SDP Club, and we were constantly surprised by the tenacity with which Minister Vukelić was on a series of occasions, I will not list public performances in which we were together in some shows, in some media, but I will only mention his latest performance on Croatian television 13.2., 10 days ago this year on "Contra Plan" Croatian Radio-Television. We were surprised by the tenacity with which he ended up behind the acceptance of such contracts, the signing of such contracts, defences and administrations and defences with the confidence of the citizens of Croatia. I quote 10 days ago on the "Contra Plan", the minister said, "This contract is not harmful to the Split shipyard." That was 10 days ago. However, the minister may have had a blanket in the quotes of that written response I received from the government, signed by Vice-President Jadranka Kosor in which the Croatian government responded to me also that there is nothing suspicious about it, that everything is in accordance with normal norms and that these lateral letters do not in any way differ from the usual way in which such contracts are concluded. Keep going. At the fifth session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board of 21.7.2005, Minister Vukelic did not give the debate or the obvious proposal to exclude the disputed, auxiliary letters from the contract with the client Resers, and such a proposal existed at the session. At no time did Mr. Minister allow the Supervisory Board to discuss this at any time, so the contracts were accepted along with the auxiliary letters. At the sixth session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board on 14 November 2005, Minister Vukelic failed to discuss or show the administration's statement that there was an unwarranted difference in ship calculations for Wessers and previous identical ships and that difference was about $4 million per ship. In fact, while a contract with Wesser was concluded simultaneously in Split’s “Skver” ships were made for the second “Marin West” orderr who made a better offer than that offered by Wesers, he made a better offer for four panamex tankers and I have to say something else. The Supervisory Board approved Mr. Dear Macchek as an intermediary role in making a worse contract with a worse bidder, with a worse firm that comes out today, gave him a 2% commission. That's $4 million that nobody's questioning, and no one's questioning them because it's been going on, that's the decision that's been made. That's plus this, those $4 million are not mentioned because they're in line with the board's decision. For a worse job, the middleman wonders why the middleman would make bad business? Well, it can be done by anyone on the street. You have a middleman you pay to give you a better contract, a better bidder to find. Listen and it's good to hear! Listen, keep your ears tight! You're the only one who listens! So, in this way it was possible for the Supervisory Board to decide the truth for the sake of telling you, and Mr. Vukelic himself said it was a large commission. But they agreed to accept it, and that's the last time they'll accept it, so we'll give it a second time less. The truth of both the Lord and him was suspicious, but he took responsibility to accept it and that's why we're talking about political responsibility by not entering into the investigation, or what's going to end up being of this. We are talking about the political responsibility of the one who represented politics there – the Croatian state and the citizens of Croatia. At the 8th session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board of 11 April 2006, a shipbuilding plan was adopted despite the observation that the work plan was based on the falsified calculation of the shipbuilding captainship. The affair pops out in public, the affair pops out in public, attracts media attention, attracts international attention from money launderers. I, then, in the SDP's Parliament, am asking questions from the prime minister, starting to ask questions from the prime minister in continuance for almost a year. I get what I get - insults, low blows, destroying the dignity of this Parliament, regardless of our differences politically. I try to be, I think I am correct with everyone outside the political arena. When we're in the political arena, we defend our political views. But I don't want to offend you humanly, and I expect you to not insult me. I was offended when I was talking about this affair in this hall from the first man of the Croatian government, because I asked about this which is no longer questionable, that I had to ask on behalf of those who voted for me. Then comes that famous letter from the Austrian interior ministry, coming the government's response of twenty-six thousand and six years old to me a written reply saying everything's okay. I'm not talking about the Split police today is not about the subject. But they say "all is well" before the investigation is over. The attorney's office is working today without the police finishing their investigation, because there's no more time to wait indefinitely for a delay, so I can say responsible and obstructing the investigation. So the public's interest is great. The parliamentary representative warns the minister and prime minister. A member of the Supervisory Board warns the minister. At no time does the minister feel that the Brodosplita Supervisory Board should discuss this and he does not discuss it. That's why we're looking for his political responsibility as chairman of the Supervisory Board. We're talking about it here today and that's all we're talking about. At the ninth session of the Brodoplita Supervisory Board since 25 July 2006, Minister Vukelic does not adopt and reject the proposal of a member of the Supervisory Board. That's after all the noise came up, a member of Mr. Ilija Martinovic's supervisory board to discuss a disputed contract with Vese. After all, he refuses. In addition, Minister Vukelic failed to seek a professional explanation from the HBOR regarding their refusal to pay the disputed auxiliary letters. Because of this behaviour, due to this behaviour, Minister Vukelic brought the Split Shipyard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pay even the six million dollars that Split has already paid for, based on the guarantees that Veselj could be charged. It's a very bad, irresponsible behavior of the entire supervisory board, as well as of the chairman of the Supervisory Board. With such behaviour, Mr. Minister and the Supervisory Board, except for those who were trying to do something there, have shown extreme irresponsibility, extreme negligence and disrespect to Croatian citizens who pay for all this and will pay for it. And they'll pay! At the same time in Split’s Square, some workers were fired the other day. For a reason. Because they stole copper. Now I ask you, are we going to introduce in Croatia the principles that are said in the quotes of the "two arches" that when you steal 10 kilos of copper or 100 kilos, it doesn't matter that you answer when you get caught, and that no one even politically responds when you're working on such a harmful irresponsible I don't know what I'd call a way. And when the citizens of Croatia pay millions of dollars, millions of dollars, their dollars are the dollars of Croatian citizens. These are Croatian citizens' money, neither government nor state. On February 7th this year, Mr. Vukelic, on all charges, said it was nonsense, insinuations of the SDP, etc. He said I don't feel responsible because I don't follow the daily course of work that people do in Brodosplit. In my opinion, Mr. Minister has resigned as chairman of the Supervisory Board, so we support him in that. If I say and my people say here I am a good man, all of it, all of it, well done, but I can't, I can't follow it, it's a lot to me. Well, well done, it's nice to admit. Here, we can accept that. I think it's an implicit day of resignation. If someone says I can't operate because my hands are shaking, I'm old or what I know, then he won't operate, he'll kill a man. If someone can't drive a bus because they don't see well, I can't possibly get a license to drive a bus. I can't see, plus six, I can't. Here, a gynecologist couldn't be a gynecologist if he wasn't fit. Well, it can't be the chairman of the Supervisory Board who can't do it and admits he can't. And he's still surprised what we say, so we respect it, go, we support you to leave. It's the least you can do. It's become a matter of decency. It's not politics anymore. At the same time because of my performances like this, I am accused of nothing less of a press in Split on a few occasions, here is Zivko, but he did not say it, for political terrorism. Look, I'm a political terrorist for asking this question for what I've been asking for a year and what my friends are slapping me about, my dear or my colleagues, but let them slap this is an invitation I've chosen just like all of us. Okay, we're on a public stage, figuratively, figuratively, Mr. Kramaric. ... No, I just want to say one thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As it is only in quotes of "ordinary citizens" who have the desire and the will to respond to the invitation of Mr. Prime Minister and to report some kind of corruption. What happens to them when I didn't go through with it myself? So let the families tell them, come on, let it go now. Are we creating such an atmosphere in our society? Is that our goal? If we admit it to ourselves, then we're all doing our job badly together. I believe in saying so, and I don't question the honor of anyone here. At this point, we are talking about a poor job that is harmful to Croatia and to the citizens of Croatia. I think that if the minister does not carry a consensus on his behavior, I still hope that he will say so himself no, as he said he does not want to be the chairman of the Supervisory Board because it is a lot and cannot follow his course of affairs, I think if it does not happen that it will be quite a cynicism in relation to our relationship with the citizens of Croatia that we ask them to do their jobs responsibly, so be it the work of the cleaning woman, the driver or the pilot of the aircraft or the teacher or the chimney. We ask them to do their job responsibly. All we're asking right now is for everyone else to do it, including politicians in this case, Minister Vukelic, who is the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board. Because of what I have stated, we propose a vote of mistrust to Minister Vukelić because there is no justification for his behaviour, even though the government said in its opinion the work of the Supervisory Board was in accordance with the powers defined by the legal regulations. I'm asking you, I'm asking all of us rhetorically, and I'm asking myself, if we're going to, what are we going to do about politics in this society, what kind of message are we sending these people? These people are equating us all even though I will never agree to it so that we can all be even. I agree with you all who don't want to agree. I agree with everyone. Since yesterday afternoon, we've been listening all the time that the minister and the entire supervisory board have been cheated by the administration who kept lying to them that this is better, that it's good, and it was bad, it seemed criminal. Well, that's offensive to the minister and to the board members. Well, we have a far greater view of the minister's abilities than those who say something like this. I think he's a working man. I think he's workable. And he's not capable of performing this function. And don't tell me they didn't warn me. Well, I've been fighting with you here all the time, with the Prime Minister, on shows and here and there, please nice, you've told me what, to talk nonsense, fiction, etc. Today we let some independent bodies determine what's true, they'll be determined in the end, don't be afraid. The story's only on its way. Let it be determined, it's true. But the question is, but it's a matter of legitimacy, and it's a question of legitimacy that you're doing some function that you're responsible for when it's determined that you've done it all wrong, not to say a more difficult word that's said... So the question is personal responsibilities and self-respect to say no, I don't want to do it any further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, these are the reasons why we are asking to declare the mistrust of Minister Vukelic, because we believe that his political responsibility is as great as all those who protect him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84714	Thank you. We only have 13 corrections of incorrect allegations, so we're going in a row. First respected representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84715	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'll make it quick, because there are a lot of them. counterpart Jurjevic says the affair lasts for over a year. That's her exactly. It takes his and his party creating an affair for over a year. Secondly, he says the supervisory board and Mr. Vukelic have replaced a member of the finance administration because he did not want to sign some as controversial accounts. That's not true. Because a member of the Finance Authority doesn't sign such accounts at all, based on the decision of the former administration. Based on the decisions of the former administration. And of the intercessor when he speaks, the mediator is chosen by the buyer, not by the seller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84716	Second Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84717	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is incorrect that those contracts are harmful to the shipyard, however they are very favourable at the price, built-in safeguard clauses, the way of financing, and are more favourable for the shipyard than any one signed by then. It is also incorrect with regard to HABOR. It is common for advance payments on the basis of a guarantee issued by HABOR to be transferred to one of the commercial banks and to perform all needs for transactions. It is also incorrect that there were more favourable offers, because "Marin West" showed readiness and e-mail to talk about two ships, but without safeguard clauses there were no price in euros but were in dollars which was much more unfavourable to see by some already delivered ships due to a lack of mixed price in dollars and euros and so it is easy to conclude that they were just the most favourable offers that were accepted and based on which ships... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84718	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84719	I am correcting one of the incorrect allegations of MP Jurjevic, who said the chairman of the supervisory board had knowledge of the existence of more favourable offers. At the time of the debate, the chairman of the Supervisory Board had no knowledge of the existence of a more favourable offer to consider the contract for several reasons. At the very meeting of the Supervisory Board, the issue of favourable offers was denied by the President of the Shipbuilding Administration by reason of the subsequent interest of the other shipowner through e-mail and in which he spoke of the deadlines that were seized by the truth for two ships at the price of 51 million dollars, but without a safeguard clause for... the price she paid in euro with unfavourable funding conditions, which would increase the cost of an additional $5 million. [[You don't understand.]] And we are also so attached to this discussion of the Act on the supply of goods and services, so whether the offer with e-mail is a valid offer, why you didn't say it yesterday in the debate, during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84720	Fourth Amendment, Honored Vice-President of the House Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84721	So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations and Mr. Jurjevic's claim that the government, and he's totally claiming to have sabotaged the investigation, prevented an investigation showing that it's been slightly more than half a year since the spring of last year and that the investigation has been completed, and the application against the former administration came to the state's attorney's office on 10.10.2003, and it's been 4.5 years to date. Which is why you didn't ask a question about why there's a complaint against the former administration that you've set up and set up a supervisory board. So you've also claimed that the money that went missing here in HDZ, that's what you've been saying here in front of the entire Parliament, as if I'm asking the question now, and I'm saying where's that $100 million Bank of Rijeka, that they didn't end up in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84722	Fifth Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrnag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84723	Thank you very much. From a series of incorrect allegations, I'm correcting two. He mentioned Minister Vukelic's fault several times. It is not Minister Vukelic's fault, because no guilt has been proven, and Jurjevic and SDP no longer find guilt in this country. Another incorrect allegation was that a lower price was agreed, more unfavourable which is not true, because the price is more favourable for 5 million kuna and because it has a favourable clause, for increasing the price of steel, for the currency clause, for the euro instead of the dollar, for the larger advance payment, etc. I guess he wanted to say that the unfavourable contract was concluded by the management with the Technical Centre Split, because the management had concluded contracts for which more than a million kuna had paid more than the agreed sum, so Mr Jurjevic is probably guilty because he is the director of the Technological Centre, his best man and friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84724	Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84725	Your Honor, Mr. President. It is an incorrect statement by Marina Jurjevic that there will be cynicism against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if Minister Vukelic is not removed. It means pre-scheduled, pre-convicted and pre-executed execution, it reminds of some other times when it might have happened. And by the way, the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration on 10 October 2003 filed a criminal complaint against the then Commercial Society "Brodosplit – Shipyard" with the aim of obtaining evidence and submitting an investigation centre to the County Court in Split a proposal to conduct investigations against several persons. However, since these investigations have not been carried out, these investigations have not been carried out at all because someone has prevented investigations from taking place, police have continued criminal proceedings and have now re-applyed criminal charges. Gentlemen of the investigation has not been conducted because someone has stopped it. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84726	Next correction, honourable representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84727	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Jurjevic incorrectly claimed that the government had stalled the investigation. In fact, this government has called on competent state institutions to conduct an investigation until the end. That's the facts. If, at the time of your authority, your government conducted investigations, it speaks enough of the way your government then functioned. The other thing is, you said it was cynicism, that it would be cynicism if Mr. Vukelic didn't smile and get rid of it today. You know what cynicism is? Cinism is when you in the SDP after the court's final judgment, after a final judgment by a court of law, a person who sold illegal state land and over a million, over a million square meters of state land... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84728	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84729	Thank you, Mr. President. That the politically based indictment of Mr Jurjevic is also evidence of his completely incomprehensible and incorrect claim that the statement by Minister Vukelic is that he does not follow the daily course of work is actually proof of his incompetence and in fact his resignation. Well, my colleague Jurjevic, Minister Vukelic, is not a worker in Brodosplit, nor is he an employee, but his statement was actually a message of his role. He led the strategic management, and he wasn't someone who sat on a daily basis in Brodosplit, like the Croatian Parliament of the Central Committee that we condemn, judge and judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84730	Next correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84731	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. counterpart Jurjevic incorrectly claimed that this government and this minister did nothing on purpose to expose the affair as early as possible. That's not true. Both the Prime Minister and the government's representatives insisted that the institutions of this state must carry out their job both the police and the State's Attorney's office. Within six months, they have led to the prosecution of certain people in the shipyard. Unlike your government, which has done nothing for four years on an indictment that also existed. That's when the system didn't work. It's just a different set of opinions. It is known that the committee has charged and sentenced and replaced its man and appointed him as director at another factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84732	Next correction, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84733	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations that we all do wrong together. It's not true, colleague Jurjevic, because we work with results, and you work with cynicism and double morality. I ask you why, at the time of your party's reign, you did not have the same responsibility for your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Slavko Linic, who has very good guesses in Rijeka, and many have stayed then and hungry and reluctant, but you have kept silent, even though you have defended him, and such double morality today is no longer passing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84734	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84735	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of all the incorrect political qualifications I think the top list is cynicism, I see we all mention it. And in my opinion, cynicism is something else. Cinism is, for example, forgotten. When SDP's elite led supervisory committees, for example in INA, Rijeka Bank, Lenca and where law enforcement was a daily phenomenon. It is also only cynicism that, in fact, the future joint candidate for prime minister is the most problematic, determined most problematic member of the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84736	Dear Representative Marko Širac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84737	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Jurjevic incorrectly stated: "Minister Vukelic is unable to act as minister." That's an incorrect claim. So far, Minister Vukelic's work suggests the opposite is that it is a very capable and conscientious man who acts with honor on his duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84738	And respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84739	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The whole speech of Mr. Jurjevic is incorrect and should be corrected because in him the SDP accuses, judges and makes judgments, but I would like to correct a statement. I quote: "We are talking about a poorly done job that is harmful to the shipyard and Croatia." The truth is different, because the approval of the contracts in question has not done any damage to the shipyard, they are better agreed than previously agreed, or those contracted by the previous administration, and whether someone has possibly used the contracts in question in an uninstitutional manner or an illegal manner will show an ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84740	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84741	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm going to be pretty brief in my opening statement. At the beginning, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely rejects the SDP Representatives' Club's allegations of the illegal and harmful activities of Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic as chairman of the Supervisory Board of Brodosplit Shipyards d.o.o. I would like to say at the beginning that at the very moment when there were doubts about the possible illegal activity of individuals in the shipyard itself or the possible illegality of the operations of the Supervisory Board of the "Brodosplita" that at the same time very clear signals and activities were launched by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government requested that the competent authorities, and that was primarily the State Attorney's Office's examination of what was going on at Brodosplit, in which decisions were made, primarily by the Supervisory Board and whether the Supervisory Board had absolutely all relevant facts on the table and information when it made certain decisions. At this stage, this phase of the state's attorney's investigation ended and yesterday we had the opportunity to read all together on the websites what the State's Attorney's Office says about it. I'm sorry if someone hasn't read it, so I'll quote only part of what can be read on the website of the State's Attorney's Office on this case. Of course, an investigative request has been filed against several persons in the shipyard itself. Suspects. Second and third suspects are two members of the shipbuilding administration. Suspects have asked the Supervisory Board not only to decide on the approval of four shipbuilding contracts, but also on-the-spot letters. This was falsely presented to the members of the Supervisory Board that the offer for the construction of the Vese Group was the only serious offer. In doing so, they have consciously denied that two more and more favourable offers have arrived, and they have also incorrectly stated that the lateral letters are two and three at this stage, although they knew that they were being exported etc., etc., etc. We're not here to investigate. Investigations can only be done by the police and the State's Attorney's Office, and the State's Attorney's Office has been clearly manifested. Suspects, members of the Brodoplita Shipyard administration, have deceived and falsely informed the Supervisory Board on the basis of which the Supervisory Board has made certain decisions. And that's true in this case. Therefore, is there a responsibility of the Supervisory Board under the Company Act? In the opinion of the State Attorney's Office, investigations are conducted. Therefore, against certain members of the Board, not members of the Supervisory Board or of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Since Mr Jurjevic has also presented a number of new facts that have not been known to me so far, I really hope that these facts are known to the State's Attorney's Office and I will actually say that I am convinced that they are known to the State's Attorney's Office which has been manifested in this way. But I expected if we were already discussing whether and in any way the harmful contracts signed by this administration with the orderer, Wessels, that we would at least one sentence by the SDP Representatives' Club show whether the harmful contracts signed by the former management with the other ship-owner were. We haven't heard a single sentence about it. And I'm going to tell you that the State's Attorney's Office on its site is talking about the possible damage caused by the signing of these contracts for "Vessels", $4 million, $760. But it's also irrefutable that the former administration damaged the shipyard for $11 million, 750 that you didn't say a single sentence, which is unacceptable. And if we are fighting, and if we are really fighting for the exorcism of justice, then we really need to talk about each other. From all the above-mentioned ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say just two, three details about what kind of contracts were signed during this administration with our client, Wessels, what is the quality of those contracts, and what are the contracts I was talking about before, which were signed at the time of the former administration in 2002-2003? Just a few of the most important items that I ask you to remember nicely. The price reached per ship under these contracts that are controversial, $50 million, according to former contracts, from 2002-2003, 42 million dollars for the exact same type of ship. When we talk about paying until delivery, then according to these new contracts 50% of the contracted amount, the client pays in advance. According to old contracts, only 35%. When we talk about currency, and we all know that in shipbuilding there is a huge risk of currency exchange rates and of moving steel prices. 20% of the agreed price of the ship under new contracts is paid in euro, thus reducing currency risk. There were no such clauses in the old contracts. In addition, I must tell you that the new contracts contain clauses that are safeguard clauses on the change in prices of steel on the world market. There was no such thing in the old contracts. Therefore, if we are talking and we really want to analyse this situation in the right way and if we are talking about someone's responsibility then we should talk about the responsibility of the current and former administration, and the State's Attorney's Office has been clearly shown whether or not there is no responsibility of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board. The current contracts signed with Wessels are better for the shipyard than contracts signed during the former administration. The administration made certain mistakes and did certain illegal activities. That's what the State's Attorney's office has made its opinion clear. A defrauded Supervisory Board and the responsibility of the Supervisory Board for this fact and, in particular, the responsibility of the chairman of the Supervisory Board does not exist. And for this reason, the government of the Republic of Croatia rejects the absolute allegations of SDP's club's responsibility for Minister Vukelic. So we reject these allegations as absolutely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84742	Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84743	It is completely incorrect that Minister Vukelic was not familiar with the harmful actions of the administration against which the State's attorney is now initiating the investigation and seeking detention. Minister Vukelic denied it himself in a statement in April 2006 when he said, this administration signed all contracts with the consent of the Supervisory Board. I'm familiar with all the elements of the contract. Contracts are good and there's nothing harmful about them. Therefore, Minister Vukelic did not act in ignorance or in extreme negligence. He replaced Srdjan Kovac, a member of the Finance Authority who refused to execute a warrant that would cause damage to the shipyard. Therefore, he showed tenacity in the protection of those who commit a crime. He insisted that this crime be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84744	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84745	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Vice President Polancec when he says that this government has taken everything in its power to eventually expose possible means a dispute over these funds that are at stake today. More than that, it is true that this government has in every way protected the unconscious conduct of the Supervisory Board, led by Minister Vukelic, and I will quote once again the statement Mr Vukelic made in April 2006. "This administration signed all contracts with the consent of the Supervisory Board. I'm familiar with all the elements of the contract. Contracts have been made good, and there is nothing harmful in them." It is now evident that there is harmful because some have ended up behind the lock and Mr. Vukelic has taken responsibility for their actions and I am against voting confidence. I am in favour of the resignation of Minister Vukelic for moral reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84746	Thank you. Next correction, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84747	It's incorrect, Mr. Polancec's inaccuracy that I've never said this to you before. There's nothing I haven't said in some of the shows you've been sitting next to me on. So, about the Supervisory Board, about the record, it's all already said. You're plimising with the State's Attorney's Office and not with Marina Jurjevic. It says there, you have in your hands what I have, that there were two better offers. That's what you gentlemen read, take it off the Internet. That came out yesterday. This is not said by Marin Jurjevic, and it is said by the State's Attorney's Office to pollemize with them. And second, ships and prices. First of all, we're asking, we're asking a question of trust to Mr. Vukelic's political responsibility and you're talking about something else. We're talking about this minister and this Supervisory Board. Otherwise, the prices of ships used to be $42 million, today they're the same boat as $58 million. So let's do these what they said about 51 or 50. You know better than me what about prices of steel, oil, repro material, etc. and the exchange rate of dollars.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84748	Dear Representative Slavko Linic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84749	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from the vice president saying the former government wasn't dealing with former members of the administration. A criminal application against former members of the administration was filed by the coalition government's competent ministry and then members of the Supervisory Board. But you seem to be forgetting something. Police find was completed on the 10th month of 2003, police findings then concluded on the 10th month of 2003. Who are you calling "unhappily"? What are you saying, that the 4th and 5th is the SDP at the head of the government? Well, it's not. The 10th month of 2003 was a commitment to Sanader's government. Therefore, the findings for the investigation were submitted precisely by the people responsible for the cases in the shipbuilding sector. The police have only expanded the investigation to Mr. Wonderin, but all that is based on the criminal report filed is what the former government and former members of the Supervisory Board did. Therefore, gentlemen of the unhappiness charge your government if you think it's someone's fault that you didn't take action on investigations that the police finished in October 2003, a month before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84750	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84751	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Polancec who said that the contracts signed by this administration are not harmful. It's simply not true because for these members of the administration, the state's attorney has launched an investigation and requested detention. Does that mean you don't believe in the Croatian judicial system? That's what's coming out of that claim of yours. So you don't trust the justice system or the state's attorney's office, but you give arbitrary findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84752	Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84753	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Representatives! First of all, I want to say one more time here in front of all of you as I have often said to the public so far that the Supervisory Board has not acted against the law, that the Supervisory Board has not worked on the damage of the shipyard. This was confirmed by an investigation almost a year of the state's attorney and police, and I expected Mr. Jurjevic, who has called a lot in public, to apologize today for being found in the interpretation and we have the impellation and you have all the conclusions suggested that Minister Vukelic, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, worked against the law. I therefore continue to argue there was no work of the anti-legal supervisory board and that is what the investigation confirmed in this section, the investigation will continue in its part being carried out and which will be carried out by the court further but the fact is absolutely clear. And there's also one more thing to say. From the very first moment that it was suspected of some kind of dishonest activity both the government and the prime minister and I were looking for, we insisted that the services responsible for this, the police, the attorneys do their job and conduct an investigation. For both these and any other irregularities that were suspected or suspected to exist, so it happened, and that's why the fact and the truth that this particular government is very persistent in detecting crime or illegal work of anyone, it doesn't matter who it is. And that's why it got to this point that what the former government started in 2003, and now it's on the agenda. Why didn't it come? Why Mr. Jurjevic did not shout out loud all those years about the miracle of a former member of the administration who was accused of it should be honored and his name, but the fact is that these jobs were previously harmful, such indications, this will be determined in the court's procedure and everything that is but the fact that this government has insisted that all these cases be enlightened. Minister Vukelic did not approve, Minister Vukelic did not replace. This is neither in office nor in the power of the chairman of the Supervisory Board nor of the Minister. The decisions were taken by the Supervisory Board in accordance with the law, regulations, statutes. There has never been a discussion prevented on any board of directors. The management submitted reports for which the Commercial Society Act has jurisdiction and responsibility for what it presents and on this basis decisions have been taken. In the case of this administration against which it is now being launched and the investigation is apparent so that they have misused, such are the indications and findings of the attorney's office, the police of their authority and their position and that they therefore worked on the basis of the contract for their own benefit. The fact is that the former management that was during the SDP and the transactions were carried out during the SDP authorities concluded harmful contracts below the market price and that the damage also occurred in tens of millions of dollars in direct damage. When I speak and when I say that I cannot and cannot chair a supervisory board of any company nor sits in a company, neither sits next to the director of the administration nor negotiates business, deals. It is not and under the law must not and cannot be transferred to the supervisory board. The management of a company is a business of management, the supervisory board has its role, its responsibilities and is engaged in this. So I was talking about not sitting in a shipyard, and no chairman of the Supervisory Board can do or can do or can sit. Also, when I was talking about contracts, about the damage to the contract I was always talking about, you're pulling out of context now all these stories about the amount of financial contract for these ships because this very supervisory board prevented the former administration, three times Predrag Marvel came to the Supervisory Board asking for the signature of a contract for the same ships for 42 million dollars. We didn't accept it because they were by calculations below $50 million is $8 million higher, and that's why the Supervisory Board took part in the adoption of quality contracts when it comes to the financial amount. Also, the former administration, the former Supervisory Board did not prevent and neither did the state bodies, so neither do the ministries that always control all other institutions that contracts are below market prices and therefore hundreds of millions of kunas of former contracts in 2003, 2002, went to someone who was obviously buying cheap ships in their pockets. So that's one truth, and that's why I absolutely can't accept what I'm doing here as well as the man and the minister who's called me illegal, that it was done to damage the shipyard. Did someone manipulate her wrong? Has anyone under some contracts been doing dishonest jobs that investigation has established and is being carried out further. And I will always support that these things are cleared all the way to the end and that it's simply the one who works dishonestly and criminally that is responsible for it. So if we're all honest about fighting crime, then we're not going to politicize, and they're not going to be as politically muddy as they are right now, but they're going to fight crime of any kind, crime doesn't have a strong political premise, but it has a moral premise. So there's an ethical omen, and if we're all up to it then we'll say some institutions work, let them investigate, let them take the blame, we won't judge, we won't now listen to the investigation after the investigation. Mr. Jurevic was now conducting a new investigation. New investigation. Well, then he obviously knows better than a lawyer. I believe in law enforcement and the police, let them do the investigation. Let them do whatever they have to do to determine the investigation. And also if we talk about the context of responsibility as well as the member of the Supervisory Board and as a member of the Government. So everything that's been done in the Supervisory Board and what's done is done to control the contract in financial... Are they, can the shipyard build without loss? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Could productivity be produced with hours, hours in the construction of the ship produced that number without loss. And that's what the Supervisory Board was doing, doing, overseeing, doing, and there it saved quite a bit of money unlike the former Supervisory Board. That should be said, which was therefore a bit easy to miss ships to sell 10 million dollars cheaper than the market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84754	Thank you. 12 corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84755	Mr. Secretary is trying to say that he worked well as chairman of the Supervisory Board. That's not true. As chairman of the Supervisory Board, he was obliged to first learn about possible harmful contracts to be included in the work of internal supervision. He didn't do it. He hasn't done it in a year. In addition, its obligations as chairman of the Supervisory Board are to use an existing auditor in a company that protects the interests of the owner. In addition, try to find an independent auditor and all to try to reach business decisions as chairman of the Supervisory Board regardless of the persecution of Croatian institutions. The minister didn't do it, and that's why he didn't do it well. And one more thing. As a result, he has caused adverse consequences for Croatia because it is not a question of harmful contracts but of money laundering in international circles and the issue of personal benefit that individuals have done thanks to their dislikability. That's the damage to his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84756	Second correction by respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84757	Mr. Minister said the Supervisory Board has not been working on the damage of Brodosplit, and it is also polymising with the State Attorney's Office, which says in this paper that has been issued by Deputy Prime Minister Polancec that there have been two better offers. Not to mention any criminal acts that have been caused and personal benefits, money laundering and so on by you accepting those contracts, those side letters, even though you were warned about it. So work, the Supervisory Board has been working on the damages of Brodosplit and the citizens of Croatia. You're in charge of him. That's why we're looking for political responsibility. It's not about opening any new investigation. She's being run by a lawyer. As far as the police are concerned, I said what I thought about it. As far as Mr. Wonderin is concerned, he's been raised against him now. He's in the game now. In that, in that previous report you were talking about, he wasn't there. That's one news. These were people who were before 2000 if you were interested in the Squire Administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84758	Third correction, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84759	It is an incorrect statement that the government has insisted that the signing of harmful contracts be enlightened. In a written response to the parliamentary question, the government says: "These contracts are not worse than similar previous contracts, so such a Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot characterise them as harmful." So the government does not insist that harmfulness is investigated rather than claims in advance that contracts are not harmful. Secondly, it is incorrect that only the Administration is responsible for the damage to the contract. You said: "The agreements are legal and positive. But it obviously bothers someone that they are made up according to the Ministry's instructions." They are made up according to your instructions according to your own recognition. Therefore, for them it is not and cannot be solely responsible for the management when this administration has acted on your order to prove that your replacement of Mr. Srdjan Kovac, a member of the Finance Authority, has refused to execute the warrant because it is harmful. You've replaced him. You insisted that a harmful warrant be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84760	Next correction by the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84761	I'm correcting an incorrect allegation that says the Supervisory Board didn't work illegally. I'd like to remind you of article 250. The Act on Commercial Companies under which the Supervisory Board may at any time ask the Administration to report on matters relating to the operation of the company and so on. Article 263 A law which states that the Supervisory Board may convene the General Assembly and must do so where necessary for the sake of the company’s well-being and in order to apply Article 273a so that a company or assembly may raise the question of liability of compensation from members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board which caused damage to that company. The chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board didn't do it. Even so, they made it possible for the congregation represented by the owner, which is the Republic of Croatia, or the Croatian Privatisation Fund, to accept these illegalities that took place in a commercial society by the administration and by the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84762	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84763	Two incorrect allegations from Mr. Secretary. The first is, this government is persistent in disclosing illegality, I quote. Yeah. Then when public affairs explode. Remember "Bechtel", remember "Brodosplit". It was only when it exploded that the government became persistent. Secondly, the Supervisory Board is not involved in business. That's right. The Board of Supervisors is watching. If he fails to monitor the illegality of business, he is at least guilty of incompetence if not of bad intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84764	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go. Correction of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84765	.../The speaker is subsequently included./...two incorrect allegations. First of all, that the Supervisory Board has made decisions in accordance with the regulations and that it has worked according to the powers of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall oversee the conduct of the company’s activities in accordance with the decisions of the Assembly, the company’s acts and the regulations. He is authorised to review the accounts and annual accounts and is obliged to submit regular and extraordinary reports to the Assembly. So not only the current business but also the entire business and this, this defense done by the former Management Board, or the former Supervisory Board, will not release the guilt of the existing Supervisory Board because it had the right and obligation to oversee the entire business. This only seeks to carry out a certain balance of guilt and another technical correction. It's not about interpretation and illegality. It's about the vote of mistrust to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84766	The next correction by the respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Anton Perushko. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84767	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Vukelic who says there was no illegal work of the supervisory board. It is simply not true because the minister himself took responsibility, which is also normal for the administration's actions because he himself said that the management signed all contracts with the consent of the Supervisory Board. With all the elements of the contract and personal knowledge and good contracts have been concluded and there is nothing harmful in them. Unfortunately, the application of the State's Attorney's Office and the request for the detention of a part of the board's members arises quite the opposite. Therefore, your claim is incorrect but unfortunately we do not live in Kosovo where the minister resigns for moral reasons. In Croatia, the current concept of moral or potential political responsibility is completely foreign to this government, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84768	Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here's the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84769	Mr. President, I don't know if I'm going to properly interpret the minister who said they couldn't be as a supervisory board responsible for current affairs or such a contract. However, you have the monitoring board's record. You have a page and a half of that new boat construction point. From that page and half, 90% of the warnings are that harmful contracts are Christmas contracts 2 and 3 and after all you have the conclusion. It is said: “After the debate, the vote was taken, and it is determined that the board of directors with five votes in favour and one abstention gave a positive opinion on the contracts in question. The signator is Mr. Minister Vukelic, chairman of the Supervisory Board. So, if “he lies to the goat he does not lie to the horn”!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84770	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84771	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Minister Vukelic, who said the supervisory board is not responsible for anything. The Supervisory Board didn't do anything illegal. So what's the point of that surveillance board anyway, he didn't even do anything? So what is the purpose and purpose of the supervisory boards where ministers disrupt the laws of physics and are at the same time on several supervisory boards and they are innocent. And let's say General Gotovina is innocent and he's in a dungeon, and unlike them, they're not responsible for anything. What kind of message is that? How? Who's under investigation? Are they under investigation by the people appointed by the Supervisory Board? It is. Well, they have a few political responsibilities!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84772	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84773	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that Mr. Vukelic is responsible for the operations of the former Administration of Brodosplit, as his presentation would actually make him feel responsible for the business. It is also an incorrect assumption that there is no criminal responsibility for this or that or that. Let's just let the investigation find out anyway, because in the first part of it, you're up for it. But is there political responsibility? I think it's clear to everyone that there is and that's what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84774	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84775	Mr. Minister said the Supervisory Board was working according to the law, which is a completely incorrect allegation. In accordance with the law, the Supervisory Board oversees the conduct of the company, oversees management. Even more so, he is obliged to submit a report to the congregation on the legality of the activities of society. However, how the minister will submit a report on the legality of the company's business when he says that they have given guidance on how these contracts will be concluded. It is therefore evident that Mr. Minister has not only failed to perform his responsible work as chairman of the Supervisory Board, but has even done his suggestions harm for which at least a political response is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84776	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84777	One of the incorrect allegations said by Minister Vukelic is about his perception of the role and work of him as chairman of the supervisory board. I'm instructing him to read the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies which exactly says what the tasks of members of the Supervisory Board are, which is the responsibility of members of the Supervisory Board, and especially him as minister. Secondly, Minister Vukelic also looked back on part of the work of the former administration, i.e. the former supervisory board, i.e. the former ministry during the coalition government, failed to do its job. I repeat what my colleague Linic said. The initiative of the then-supervisory board and the ministry's initiative launched investigations in the 10th month of 2003, and then the question of what the members of the new government were doing after that. Yeah, yeah. And everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84778	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84779	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Three key aspects are why the Croatian People's Party Club will support this initiative. First. The first aspect is the general aspect of the fight against corruption that we all swear. We brought the strategy. We have come up with a wonderful strategy, a wonderful book in which it writes and what is the result of this strategy. Who's catching up? Doctors who take bribes for surgery get caught, cops who take bribes don't write a ticket, teachers who sell exams and stuff like that. When there's a case of corruption with a little bit more money and a little stronger players in it, then it's a political attack, then it's a pre-election campaign, then we forget about that strategy, whatever strategy. It's not a strategy that matters, it's not a man's fault. Oh, no? It must first be proved that he is guilty, and this confidence initiative is not a criminal application. There's someone else who file a criminal charges. This is a political responsibility initiative, so a political application. A statement that should show that this minister and such minister do not enjoy the confidence of Croatian citizens. The second aspect is the aspect of responsibility. Mr. Minister talked about him a lot. If the chairman of the Supervisory Board, I put an emphasis on the supervisory board, is not responsible for what the people he's overseeing have done, then either he's working with them, so now he's covering it up or he has no idea what's going on there. So he cannot trust Croatian citizens to manage the most important ministry at this time in Croatia, the Ministry of Economy if he does not know what is going on in the company he is overseeing. So something happened there, obviously, someone's in custody, right now in the paper and stuff, and if the minister doesn't know, then he can't trust the citizens. In any case, the minister is responsible, I guess it is not a dilemma for anyone to decide whether he is responsible a) because he did wrong along with people in the shipbuilding office or b) which is incompetent and did not know what was going on there. But one thing, you can't give up both, one of which is definitely true. The third aspect is to support this initiative on non-confidential voting because of the aspect of messing up and awkwardness. When a man gets caught in a lie, and everyone happens to agree occasionally, privately or politically, he can do three things. The first is to admit and bear the consequences, say, I'm guilty, I did, so that's how I have to pay. The second is not to admit and stick to your story persistently, to be character in a lie. So I did something, I said something, I'm lying, but I stick to my story and I won't admit to being slaughtered. The third way Minister Vukelic reacts is to change the story and mess up. In the 6th month of last year, I'm sorry, in April of last year, Minister Vukelic told the media, so not in a private conversation, this administration signed all contracts with the consent of the supervisory board. With all the elements of the contract familiarized, the contracts are well concluded and there's nothing harmful about them. At the 4th month of last year. This year, the Supervisory Board doesn't know what's going on, it doesn't know anything about specific business, it didn't know that there were two better offers, he didn't know what those lateral letters were carrying, and where the money was going on, he didn't know anything. But last year at 4 months, he knew. How come now all of a sudden? This third way of handling tags is character and mixed way of thinking. It may be worse for the minister than anything else. There is a fourth aspect, and it concerns the work and actions of the minister in the political work so far. There was an affair in Kaufland in Karlovac for which there was a criminal complaint against the minister. The police have established that there are elements of the crime. This was found in the State's Attorney's Office, two years in a drawer, so that after two years within 48 hours after Mr. Vukelic became minister, the application was rejected. So this isn't the first affair Mr. Secretary is involved in. All in all, pathetic actions. Procedures that this government does not deserve and which should be denied for the sake of its own political credibility. I know Minister Vukelic will not resign. I know this House has most of the HDZ that will vote in favour of Minister Vukelic. But I don't understand why the minister, the president, our prime minister, Minister Sanader, why he doesn't allow it. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84780	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Vuljanic, said Minister Vukelic does not know what the administration is doing. Well, look, it is an incorrect fact because in April 2006, Minister Vukelic himself said: "This administration signed the contracts with the consent of the Supervisory Board. I'm familiar with all the elements of the contract. Contracts made are good in them. There's nothing harmful about them. One who thinks differently needs to prove it. Mr. Vukasovic at the head of the administration made a lot of good contracts and business goes in the right direction.". And now, either he really doesn't know or deceives the public, and one and another reason is enough to replace the minister as chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84782	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84783	counterpart Vuljanic incorrectly said he would support this impelation because HNS is for the fight against corruption. Falsely, if the HNS were to fight corruption there is enough work to do in its ranks to fight corruption. Because there are almost daily applications against the party's members. Well here and now they've recently elected president of the HNS County Committee in the carlovakia county of a man against whom two criminal charges are being filed, which seems to me to be in court today. So it's incorrect that you're fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84784	Correction of an incorrect allegation, representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84785	Inaccurate colleague Vuljanic pointed out that someone had been detained after exhausting all the possibilities in conducting the reconnaissance. The County State Attorney's Office has filed an investigative request to the district court's investigative centre, which can but does not have to make a decision on the investigation and, at any time later, determine some other measures. It's also incorrect about any kind of corruption. It is also incorrect that those contracts are harmful to the shipyard, because they are very favourable at the price, built on safeguard clauses, the way they are financed, and they had to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84786	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84787	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Vuljanic says this is not a criminal application, this is a political application. That's right. But it is incorrect that this political application is based on criminal acts, because there is neither against the minister of the investigation nor on criminal charges, nor on the verdict. So the political application is unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84788	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84789	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague has incorrectly said that Mr. Vukelic cannot perform his duties unless he knows what is going on in the company he heads as a member of the supervisory board. According to the Company Act, that's not true. A member of the Supervisory Board is responsible, but the documentation on the basis of which he concludes gives him management and he cannot verify for every supervisory board a thousand papers, because he would then have to spend the entire working day in a company in which he is in the Supervisory Board, and not in his ministry. I know it's a big law, so read it, you have time to choose. Second, it's incorrect that Mr. Minister was messing up, because he said he knew about the contracts, and later he didn't know what was going on. He knew about the contracts because he got them on the board table, and he didn't know everything behind it because the management didn't inform him, so he couldn't be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84790	Thank you. And correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said when someone screws up and lies, it's a character in a lie. That's absolutely incorrect. It's total misery in lies. In particular, it is a disaster when all those who in their résumés have masterpieces such as "Lenac", "Olinik", Rijeka Bank, "Savudria Wave", perform this play here and indeed perform one I would say to the misery of lies and pure fiction and in their own way purely politically seek to pollute both the Minister and the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84792	It's the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84793	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have a political pamphlet ahead of us. The pamphlet is being attacked by the minister and the government, although both the minister and the government have been firmly on the stand since the start that the investigation should be conducted. The SDP does not allow competent institutions to conduct an independent investigation but rather put pressure on it. They say the minister is guilty of giving consent to the materials that others have prepared for him. Since it was not Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's fault that she had agreed to assign a gas company to her husband's client, and was released because others prepared it for her. We can't have two criteria for the same responsibility. As far as the unfavourable contract is concerned, we heard from Vice-President Polancec, from Minister Vukelic, and from the material that the contract is concluded under more favourable conditions for several reasons, because it has a safeguard clause for steel, because it has a safeguard clause for the euro 20% instead of a dollar, because it is given a greater advance, because it reduces responsibility from the unpredictable consequences for the manufacturer, etc. Therefore, content is not much to talk about, for it is clear to all that content is a common pamphlet. But I would ask a question, why now this interpretation with such a, with such a bad argument. There are very strong reasons. Why against Minister Vukelic? That's why he symbolizes exactly the segment of this government's work that works best and has the best results. And now after your laugh which is a consequence of a lack of knowledge of facts, I'm going to present a few facts. In these three years, the government's gross national income has increased by between 4 and 5%, but not on the burden of new borrowing as with the previous government, as the new borrowing was reduced by 970 million kuna only last year alone, rather than on the burden of increasing production per rate from 3 to 5% per month. That's why it is necessary to attack Vukelic, because he symbolizes such good results. Tomorrow it's probably Mr. Polancec's turn, and then the rest of them. What they have done well is that unemployment in this term has fallen to the lowest rate in the last 15 years. Next, to those who don't read foreign literature, I have to say it's so-called. TA index or total enter prices assets, means an activity index that speaks about the number of new entrepreneurs per 100 inhabitants. In the last two and a half years alone, Croatia has grown from 3 to 6 entrepreneurs per 100 inhabitants and thus Croatia has risen from 32 to 19 places and therefore needs to attack Vukelić and the wider needs, the best throughout the government. It is Vukelić's fault and because he has implemented the HDZ pre-election programme on entrepreneurship zones, so we can boast that today we have 284 entrepreneurial zones in operation, a new business zone in which 1260 entrepreneurs hired 18 thousand 320 new lawyers, so we need to attack Vukelić and beyond. He's guilty especially of restructured shipbuilding, so he'd beg to get into this pamphlet, too. In fact, the shipbuilding is just under this government, and it was Vukelić and Polancec and everyone else who had the first positive movement. So if you look at the number of ships produced in 2003 and 2006, you'll see that it went from 17 to 28, an increase in productivity of 80%, and the value of the ships delivered in 2003 was 430 million, last year it was 670 million, almost double, and indeed it should be charged with the minister and this government. It should also be charged because it was headed by the group which formed five export clusters, it should be accused of growing exports for the first time in that term than imports, etc. We can blame him a lot, but whoever reads him doesn't need to be reminded. The second big reason for this pamphlet is pressure on the investigation. It's really a lot of pressure on the investigation because what colleagues who are signatories of this pamphlet are now saying they are seeking political responsibility. Unfortunately, however, there is no political but criminal responsibility required in their pamphlet, because they say in a sentence: "their illegal work". It's not political responsibility, it's a serious crime of illegal work. They say that Vukelic was illegally doing his work, and they still say that in this illegal work, he has shown particular tenacity, therefore a serious crime. Now they're back a little bit and they say it's political responsibility. It means lower qualifications. They're used to accusing, qualified the severity of the charges and judging, and those times are thanks to the dear God behind us. The third big reason for this pamphlet is to cover their black or better I'd say red-and-black marks. It should be hidden what Mr. Linic recently said about the island of knowledge, which I hope will be criminally responsible for, for a brilliant project which Mr. Vukelić and his government once again have to cover up "Viktor Lenac" who, with over one billion kuna of total liabilities, went bankrupt, and Mr. Vice President then sent out 17 million kunas of credits whose money? The privatisation fund in whose portfolio, so it wasn't even owned by Victor Lenac. And according to the documents available to us, the Fund for Development and Employment should have been returned, and in the expenditure items of that Fund, that item was not envisaged at all. Well, of course I need a pamphlet against Vukelic to get this to the surface. We need to hide the Rijeka Bank, let's not forget the Excelsior that the state has rescheduled from war damage, built out of its budget, and then given for a million marks then to another entrepreneur, and otherwise the state invested about 30 million marks, I remember those times. What should also be said to be darkened with this pamphlet and a whole series of failed privatisations. Look at what's going on with the HT that the signatories of this pamphlet have given to a foreign owner, but they haven't said whose telecommunications is. And today, the foreign owner is vetoing further sales until the international arbitration resolves who owns what is ours. So, was that ignorance? I don't think so. It was obviously an interest. It needs to hide the privatisation of 25% plus one INA stock with the majority veto right in INA management. It also needs to hide 25% of Pliva shares, now Pliva is in line with which 2 billion kuna lost this budget because they were sold below the price even before legal privatisation, and the privatisation act itself is hidden from the Croatian public. So there's really a lot of reasons for this pamphlet. It is also necessary to hide the management of this shipyard with a technology centre in Split. I read: "The technological centre in Split has created a multimedia CD for the price of 800,000 kuna." It's more expensive than HRT's propaganda materials that are usually the most expensive in the country. And that CD hasn't finished yet. This Technological Centre Split has developed a mobile Paging system that has paid 270 thousand kuna, about 10 times what it is worth. Then this tech center, and it has to be hidden with this pamphlet, made education for shipbuilding employees, the contract was 440 thousand, paid a million and a half, a million and 100 thousand kuna more. This technology center also taught English. The contract was 732 thousand kuna, a million and 200 thousand kuna were paid. So it is also necessary to hide that the director of this Technology Centre is a friend and godfather of Mr. Jurjevic, and that is why he was so angry with you today, I fully understand him. After this content part that I consider to be completely clear and why this pamphlet should be rejected, I would also go to the formal side of this document called the Proposal for Distrust, etc. This document is offensive to this High House and I actually think it's very funny and I think they wanted to make fun of both the government and this House and the judiciary. Why? It is unacceptable to miss such a document in today’s day in the official procedure. I'm talking about a document that doesn't have a page label so I won't be able to tell you to list pages, but then count and lick the index finger and list. So on the first unmarked page, and now I'm going to talk about 10 catastrophic language irregularities that make me think they're not ignorance, but that they're deliberately ignoring and making jokes out of the whole thing. On the first unmarked page you have a sentence that is long 31 lines and please do not read it out loud, because you will be breathless, and I would not like it. The third paragraph on the unmarked page says this 51 million US dollars per ship, followed by a big letter on the existence of an offer, for the first time in Croatian is written behind the score with a capital letter. I guess they think so much of the people who wrote it. Now listen to the next one. The sentence says like this, the unmarked side I think should be the third, paragraph 4: "To issue new accounts on 19 January 2006". New accounts were probably issued. The one who wrote it either laughs or the ones who signed it didn't read what they signed. Next unmarked page. They quote a statement by the government saying that such a procedure is not unusual, they copy that the procedure is not common. This is no longer a mistake, this is intentional. A great insult to the suspect, and perhaps to the accused, Mr. Dear Cat. Namely, in the second passage of the unknown page, they write to Dear Cats with a small letter. I guess they knew in advance that he was guilty, so the reduction was written to him by Drago with little d. You can see the leprosy of the document in the next paragraph of the unmarked page. I quote: "It is not at all consistent with the content and attached to the letter of the side letter of the other, instead of sheets, knives and ropes." The sheets, the knives and the ropes in the back of the letter. No, I don't. It should have been written in the accompanying letter of the side letter so that instead of sheets, knives, and the one so that it remained in the SDP drawer. And now, Mr. Minister, please listen to this and remember very well. The next sentence says this way: "So Minister Vukelic launders responsibility from money laundering." Mr. Minister, please don't wash yourself, but yourself. We can move on, but I'm afraid it's about to end, so I'll just mention a few more. He says at the end of the last paragraph of the unmarked page, he says, listen to this, he says he further reduces the net contracted price per ship than even as the chairman of the Supervisory Board replaced Srdjan, but he's still as president, so this kid may be saving in the material, in the toner that I commend because we are really in a situation where we need to save. Let's not keep listing everything I've said points only to two things. Or 32 signatories are completely illiterate and do not know the Croatian language that I cannot believe because there are academic citizens here. Or they wanted to make fun of this Parliament. I think they've managed to make fun of this House, because today we're going to spend all day not only our time but also the time of respected viewers and viewers, journalists and the public at a debate about an illiterate, illiterate, uncivilized document. That document has only one great weight, and that is why I suggest we reject it. He's got a lot of political weight. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84794	Thank you very much. Like this, 13 is a correction of incorrect, 14, 13 corrections of incorrect allegations. Minister Vukelic called and reported on behalf of the promoter, Mr Jurjevic. And we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'll take care of it. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 214 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure which says that the MP is told a warning if he demeans, insults, tells the truth, disrespects the president and other MPs. In fact, Mr. Hebrang insulted his colleague Ingrid Antičević when he said, when he said that she was in his work, when he said... I would ask you to ensure peace. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When he said...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84796	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84797	In fact, MP Hebrang insulted counterpart Ingrid Antičević when he said that she had favored her husband in her work. That's what the state's attorney's office said about it, it's not true, that's what the state's attorney's office said. However, the State's Attorney's Office has not spoken out on this, on the various purchases of medical equipment, and I think that the representative Hebrang is the last person in this assembly to talk about the unholy occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84798	Thank you very much. Before Mr. Andrija Hebrang,... he asked for a correction, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that I be seen as the chairman of this session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I refuse that criticism that I should have given Mr. Hebrang's warning since the chairman maintains order and gives strict measures, I will assess whether it was or not. And you are therefore not authorized by the Noble Messenger, nor by any intercessor. That's number one. And now he's also going to call in the hope of an article from the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Hebrang in which the injury is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84799	Thank you very much. I refer to Article 92. My colleague misquoted me when he said I was criticising Mrs. Anticevic. I commended her for assigning but based on the guilt of others. So I didn't criticize her, I commended her. And as for my involvement in medical devices, read yesterday's state audit. ... You have the right to lift... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84800	This is an injury to the Rules of Procedure by calling for an article, an article. We're going because 13 corrections are waiting, you know. The first correction is Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84801	One inaccuracy that is repeated, which must be repeated... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84802	Please, let's be correct and allow every MP to say what he has to say in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is the beginning of 13 corrections, and please, we started with Mr. Trazic, who previously answered. Let me do it then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84803	Thank you very much. Repeated inaccuracy, so it must be repeated and denied. So it's incorrect that the government insisted on lighting when the government wrote in response to the parliamentary question, that these contracts, which the State's Attorney's Office is now establishing are harmful and that those suspects are sought and detained by the government are not worse than similar previous contracts, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot characterise them as harmful. It is incorrect that Minister Vukelic is a highly successful minister, especially responsible for reducing unemployment. Unemployment was at one point 420 grand. When it was handed over to this government, it was 307,000 and now it's down to 300,000. So Minister Vukelic deserves that unemployment has dropped by 7 thousand. I don't know if Minister Vukelic, in the HDZ's view, is the most successful among the ministers in this government, but I think he is certainly representative in concealing and encouraging corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84804	Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP and vice president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84805	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues! I am correcting the incorrect allegation that Minister Vukelic is symbolising that segment of the government that works best. Namely, I want to correct this incorrect allegation with the help of the Croatian Parliament's institutions and bodies is called a state audit that says that, based on the 2005 revision, the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship has received or expressed only a conditional opinion. Among other things, it found that the ministry did not respect the Public Procurement Act. That, among other things, 17 million 296 thousand were purchased contrary to that law. In other words, contrary to the same law, about 2 million jobs were done around the hygienic maintenance of buildings. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the case of non-intentional expenditure, the Commission considers that the aid granted by the State is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid. That an action plan for the use of support and incentives has not been adopted. Then, that the counties showed 15 million 313 thousand about interest on approved loans, that the ministry paid 23 million and something or 7 million and 800 thousand more money. It is further warned in that same opinion...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84806	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84807	I'll be right there. If it's a symbol of the work of a government like this, then there's no one else, we'll have to go to elections as soon as possible to replace the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84808	It's the same outside the correction box because it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84809	No, no. I fixed what was said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84810	Okay. We're gonna be tolerated because we've been so far, so... Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Representative Vesna Škare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84811	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the quote of fellow Hebrang, who said that distrusting Minister Vukelic is a political pamphlet. I can't agree with that, and it's completely incorrect because a year of investigation in Brodosplit, and even now the opening of an investigative request at the head of a company that was the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Minister Vukelic, shows that it is not any political pamphlet. The illegalities in TLM that are swimming in public these days are also not a political pamphlet. Alkimetal solutions, which were personally signed by the unauthorized Minister Vukelic on the export of useful waste that must not be exported, are also not a political pamphlet but an ugly fact about the political behaviour of Minister Vukelic. And I must admit, it is very strange that, as an introduction to this debate only yesterday, an investigative request was launched, I suppose, in the defence of Minister Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84812	You gave an opinion on how Mr. Hebrang said it was a pamphlet, so your opinion of the MPs on his opinion is the same. But as we're tolerated, it's not any sort of correction to the incorrect assumption of his opinion, and how tolerated we are because it's being abused all the time, then I'm going to go over yours. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How am I? ... You've been showing off since you're not a minister all the time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then I'll have to answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's the kind of anxiety you showed when you weren't Vice President of the Parliament. So, there's always some anxiety. Mrs. Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84813	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, from a whole series of incorrect allegations that he likes to say otherwise, my colleague Hebrang will only correct two. First, counterpart Hebrang said Minister Vukelic works best and has the best results. I will remind you of yesterday's State Audit report, which says about the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, headed by Mr Vukelić, and it is said that during 2005, without applying the prescribed public procurement procedures, the services of hygienic maintenance of the building worth more than 2 million kuna have been obtained. Countys paid interest subsidies on corporate loans under the project "Local project of development of entrepreneurs" totalling 23 million kuna, almost 8 million more than the amount of subsidies shown in county reports. Where's that 8 million kuna? State support and incentives are planned to amount to nearly 640 million kuna. The Ministry of Support provided support to users without the instruments of return insurance in the event of non-intentional spending and without an action plan harmonising the planned funds with the rights of users. Not followed by six audit warrants... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84814	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84815	There you can see the quality of the work... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84816	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84817	My colleague Hebrang was just using the word... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84818	Thank you very much, ma'am. It's not an impelation, it's what it is. It's a show of mistrust. Please, almost every one of the MPs is crossing that business part of the time that's scheduled to correct an incorrect allegation. If this is tolerated and 13 applications are to be taken into account, then we will not finish this debate almost all day, so please stick to the time because I will interrupt every MP regardless of the left or right when the time passes, please. Now there is a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84819	I am correcting Mr Hebrang's incorrect allegations that Minister Vukelic has worked quality as chairman of the Supervisory Board. Within a year of the interest expressed and suspicions of international law enforcement authorities about money laundering in Brodosplit, Mr. Vukelić, as minister and the chairman of surveillance, deceived the Croatian public in every step of his life. Knowing about international persecution, he said no money laundering, all clear, contracts are great, contracts are excellent, side letters solve the client's interest, not money laundering. This was said to the public, the Croatian public, in each of their own steps, by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Minister Vukelic. This is not how the anti-corruption battle programme is done, so the supervisory board does not function.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84820	I beg your pardon, but let's move on. Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84821	Dear counterpart Hebrang said, therefore, that today, Minister Vukelic is to be found guilty, so I would say it better. The correction is, in that sense, that his responsibility tried to find itself two weeks ago as when there was an interpretation here of the state of the textile and shoe industry for which we are in the interpretation that the government is responsible. Your ministry. Unfortunately, most of the people refused to do so at least we believe that the government, the ministry and the minister are responsible for the situation. Well, these two weeks haven't changed a bit, and here's Mr. Polancec. It mentioned his responsibility in the future. Just to remind him that there's still a call for workers and unions from MTC to meet. Unfortunately, that has not been achieved. Here, there's a memo in the paper. It was arranged for you to meet on Wednesday and the headline in our newspaper was "He invited them on Wednesday but didn't say which.". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84822	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84823	It is incorrect that Minister Vukelic was successful in his work and this was supported by fellow Hebrang with some statistics on economic growth, employment, responsibilities, etc. It's incorrect because he found completely different data. So the economic growth of 5.6 and 5.3% fell to somewhere around an average of 4. Unemployment varies somewhere around 10 grand, so in three years 10 grand plus minus that's not exactly a big success. The debt that has risen to 30 billion dollars and has increased by 10 billion euros in three years and has increased to 30, ten billion euros, too, cannot be some great success when we have a decrease in economic growth. Non-payments that were last recorded, recorded blockades of nearly 24 billion kuna, in which around 30,000 employees also cannot be a success.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84824	Thank you very much. Also a claim on the claim, but we're moving on. Mr. Damir Cain, correction next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84825	So, on the trail, on the trail of this statement that the best results are achieved in this ministry, the external debt is somewhere at EUR 29 billion. That's 35, 36 billion dollars. Gross social product grows in the part we only need to service interest to foreign creditors. Indebted citizens over 100 billion kunas. For the first time in 2006, citizens' duties towards domestic lenders have exceeded their savings. The unemployment of 300 thousand people as well as last year. Stock deficit 11 and a half billion dollars. Export is $10.3 billion, import is $21.5 billion. The situation in the shipbuilding is collapsing. At this point, the shipyards owe 8 and a half billion kuna. The annual arrival of the shipyard is 6 billion kuna. Loss clearly exceeds nine billion kuna. That's their core capital. In the textile industry in three years, we have a loss of 10,000 jobs. In a wooden situation, it's similar. The difference between old new pensioners three years ago was 300 kuna. Today it's about 560 kuna. True, something has been done in the area of retirement. Christmas Day, 43,000-long returns family pensions, but the situation is more than ideal and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It'll all come to our checkout. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84826	Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84827	Mr. Hebrang called this document a political panphlet, which is completely incorrect. Because this document is based on the fact that there are millions of damages and the fact that there is a reasonable suspicion of criminal acts committed. However, this document requires political responsibility for a man who doesn't even know what the supervisory board's task is, so at least by not knowing whether or not he's allowed the damage measured by millions of dollars. However, the awareness of responsibility shows the ironic smile of Mr. Minister who apparently enjoys the benefits of abuse of political power... And how could we not if we had a previous speech like this, which is probably the position of the party that is holding power in the coalition today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But probably the whole government who said these contracts weren't illegal. They're even more positive And as they're positive we have a chance to see just these... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84828	Thank you very much, ma'am. Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84829	Hebrang, a colleague, has repeatedly said that Minister Vukelic is guilty. Comrade Hebrang...... Yeah, you've repeated that he's guilty multiple times. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one's to blame until proven guilty. So I would invite Interpol from Austria to determine whether or not Minister Vukelic is guilty? It is only then that we can determine with certainty whether his integrity is at the level. However, if the police in Split do so as so far, it could happen that it could take years, and I am afraid in this case for the health of Minister Vukelic, who at the beginning of the war brought confirmation to the Defence Office that he is very sick and that he cannot defend his country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84830	This way, he's not in charge, he's not the authority of Interpol from Austria to determine guilt. It is not the authority of Interpol from Austria to determine any guilt. And what's who did 15 years ago when it would have been scattered by who knows what would have turned out? Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hebrang said in his debate that we are the representatives who signed this proposal to show no confidence to Minister Vukelic, in fact, wanted to mock the Parliament of our colleagues here and the government and the judiciary and everyone else in this country. That's just not true. And my colleague Hebrang, in fact, is that you, in your debate today, actually made fun of the citizens of Croatia who actually know that the matter is very simple. It's about six million dollars first. Secondly, it's about that six million dollars obviously someone or some put nice in their pockets. And thirdly, the fact is that at the head of the Supervisory Board, therefore on the Board, the head of the Supervisory Board was here, Mr Branko Vukelic, who should have known about this because he was also warned about it. He claims he didn't know that, that he almost couldn't have known. It just shows that he's not capable to be in the position he is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84832	Thank you very much. In fact, all these corrections are one 90% replica. But I think it's cheaper to be correct because the replicas are spoken twice. So we're gonna cut it a little bit that way and that's okay. I think so. We're going to use corrections, and they're actually replicas. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84833	So I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Hebrang, who says this interpretation is among other things the goal of hiding the funds that the former government and Slavko Linic placed in the shipyard "Viktor Lenac". That's incorrect. You don't need to hide, you need to find out. That the former government and Slavko Linic placed funds in the "Vicor Lenac" shipyard to overcome the shipbuilding crisis. To implement a regional development project. In order to ensure continued production in the shipyard, and to exclude risks to domestic ordermakers such as INA, "Rabska plovavanje", "Jadrolinija" and so on. If the former government and Slavko Linic had invested funds in the “Vicor Lenac” shipyard so that workers would not suffer because of the failure of management and owners in the implementation of the project and to maintain the manufacturing process in bankruptcy, and to end the bankruptcy from the shipbuilding site. If it had been successful, it would have been proof that 650 workers work here today. Yes, they are. For the assets and for the continuation of production, interested parties [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and "Tanker sailing" and "Olinik" shipyard. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Peru.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84834	Thank you very much. ... And as last correction 13 is Mr. Representative Culjak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84835	Mr. Vice President, here's the answer for correcting the incorrect allegations because I was convinced that in my presentation, my colleague Hebrang would say something incorrect. Here it is, I've been trying, but I really haven't been able to find anything to fix it. Everything his colleague Hebrang said is true and true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84836	So it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption, it's a confirmation that there was no false assumption. That's what you abused this institute after all. Here's the thing. Let's finish, let's move on. He wasn't shot down after all. What? No record of correction has been broken. One time is, so Andrija's not a record player, but he's still a recordman, Damir Cain, so I'm warning you that he had 14 times. Let's do a little bit of that. Here's Mr. Vukelic, and then on behalf of the motionary, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84837	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors and Gentlemen. Since it's mentioned many times that today is obvious and predicted my name but with some things that absolutely don't stand. Here, I owe you here for all of you and for the public some things to say. The Kaufland case, Mr Vuljanic, said that in 2000, in times of political processes and persecution of HDZ, the process was initiated and lasted long in court and the same way as in this case, I asked it to be completed, let the truth be seen. The truth was clear again in behalf of what I said, and there is no blame. But in 2000, all HDZ people were to be arrested and led by the SDP. We know that. Do we all remember or have we forgotten maybe? “Altermetal” Mrs. Vesna Skare Ozbolt I know that you are angry that DC of Karlovac County has moved to HDZ but with “Altermetal” Minister Vukelic has nothing to do with it. As for my illness, I've given confirmation not to defend Homeland's notorious lie. It's a harsh word, but it's a lie and so who can prove otherwise can prove it? That's a lie. Everyone in Karlovac knows enough about it, and they know me. Therefore, they will know the truth, and yet for the sake of the public, because of you here they should say so. And once again here we can talk about, twist the words whether the ministry was giving instructions, so now it's going to show up here it's been giving instructions for post-op letters that were now the cornerstone of possible crime. But I will remind you, that the Ministry of Economy and also the foundation of the Government's programme demanded from all shipyards that there was no more gossip about what was done until 2003, and that Mr Linic today testified that there were such cases, so it was even an investigation into the former administration and showed that the loss ship cannot be negotiated, that there must be contracts that correspond to the real market price, that there must be a sliding scale for the price of steel, that it must also be part of the price in the euro, that therefore the buyer must bear the risk of that. So, exchange rates when we speak Euro and dollar or the price of steel. And that asked the ministry for guidance from all shipyards. Thank God they started using shipyards. Not just Split. The “oilman ” boasted in the media, too, that such contracts began to be concluded. ” May" for the first time and that's true. This should be said because of the people who work in our smuggling and those who say that shipbuilding is important for Croatia, that for the first time in these three years ships began to be built on time and in “three. ” May" and in Split Shipyard, to be delivered before the time, that there are no delays etc. With all the problems he's got. And if we're talking about shipbuilding then let's still have a little bit of consideration for the people who work honestly in it, but let's not, we don't need to be oblivious, and we really need everyone to be in a position and a firm, clear, clear, as was the government to involve the competent services everywhere where there's a suspicion of any crime and to investigate and to sanction such things. But this government I repeat myself as a minister and as chairman of the Board of Supervisors, I was not inclined to sign contracts that were a loss at the beginning. It can be said now whether someone should have known what someone handled with the bills and whether he was planning something for his pocket. But I'm also asking if anyone should have known in 2001 that the ship was contracted for 36 and a half million dollars worth 46 and a half. Whether it went through the Ministry of Economy of the then SDP government and the government gave assurances and consent to the guarantee. Was anyone supposed to know in April 2003 that the ship was contracted for $35.3 million worth over $50 million? It's a special, special tanker who has therefore a higher class in the case... is that he can actually continue to sail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Was that when Jurcic was supposed to know your candidate for prime minister or wasn't supposed to know? Do we have different criteria for knowledge and ignorance? If we want the truth and if we want a really good shipbuilding then we will agree – let the services do their job, let them look for all those and discover the crime that is, and we agree together and help this shipbuilding stand by because it regardless of the difficulties it has, and I would say an unforgiving part of Croatia's industrial story and production in Croatia that we should preserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84838	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. First up is Mrs. Vesna Skara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84839	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Vukelic who said that I was angry that part of the DC had moved to HDZ. On the contrary, I am happy that the people you have managed to buy are now processing your party's work and the Democratic Centre is very grateful to you for that. And as for Alkametal, Mr. Minister, every year over 2m euros in your solution, you allow your signature to export useful waste, for example needed for the work of the Sisak Ironworks, and it is not available, and you allow a private company to earn money with your solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84840	I don't know where the correction is, but let's move on! Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84841	Mr. Minister, the paper may have been destroyed but there are people who have read and who will testify! That's one thing. The second thing for the 2000 shifts is you, Mr. Minister at Karlovac, from cleaning lady to director, you change everything and no one can get a job without you. You rule as “the godfather. ” In the guesthouse, you're receiving citizens just as soon as they kiss your hands. That's what the Croatian public needs to know. You're acting like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84842	Well, kissing hands isn't very common, but let's move on. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Marin Jurjevic will. Here you go. Well, kissing hands isn't very common, but let's move on. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Marin Jurjevic will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84844	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minster, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to get back to the scale of things. The SDP therefore requires that the non-confidential vote of Minister Vukelic be voted on because of the way he led the Watch Committee of the "Brodosplita", I will not speak of the affair now, it was said much, because of the way he irresponsibly disposes of the funds of Croatian citizens because in this affair it was revealed that the missing money which is neither his, my, or the government, but the citizens of Croatia. This is why we are looking for political responsibility because this is the supreme legislative body in Croatia that expresses the sovereignty of the citizens of Croatia and the Croatian people and the most political body, in this sense in a way superseded because we are representatives of the people here, of the peoples. On behalf of those citizens who voted for me and my colleagues, we legitimately ask that question, and I would like to take care of the dignity of the House where we are and the dignity, that is, ma'am, and therefore don't throw it out of the bench and contribute to it, so be cultural. So back to the point of things, to the point of things. On July 13th 2005, Mr Vukelić called a session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board with 4 points of the agenda. The third item is new contracts for the construction of 4 ships for the buyer... Limassol, Cyprus, that's the "Vessels". [[The speaker speaks in a foreign language, not understood.]] The contract has not yet been signed, which is also interesting. On July 19th, the same year, a contract was signed with "Wessels" to build four Panama tankers along with controversial lateral letters, these are those "side letterers" which are essentially the two letters that are essentially all of this. The contracted price is $51.5 million. But the side letters reduce it to 50 million because the Split Shkver and give it to the client in advance by boat a million-and-a-half dollars. Why? A million dollars to equip the boat with tennis tables, plates, besteaks, tablecloths and what I know is not everything, and half a million dollars per boat for advisory services, etc. which is very unusual, unusual and is not in practice dear to my gentlemen, friends and colleagues, when making such contracts, although Mr. Vukelic, the minister of the show we were on together was Mr. Polancec, Mr. Linic claimed it was common. Today, it is not common, and it is written in what the Attorney General wrote. It is not the invention of SDP or Marina Jurjevic, according to the Law Today. The same month, therefore, in July 2005, following months of contacts with the Marinvest, another company for which Shkver at that time builds ships by e-mail informs Brodosplit that he is ready to contract 4 "Panames" tankers, so the same tanker at the price of 51 million US dollars. So that's a million dollars more for Squire every ship. E-mail was also sent to Mr. Vukelic. So, Mr. Minister, you knew about the better offer, and don't convince the public of anything else today. Because on 21 July 2005, at the 5th session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board, the other members of the Supervisory Board are familiar with the existence of a more favourable offer for the construction of the relevant new constructions. Newly built are these ships that are being built. I will now quote the record, there it says, quotes: "Mr. Šegvic", it is a representative of HUS, the union, member of the Supervisory Board, "Mr. Šegvic", and I quote, "... he has met those present with the arrival of offers to arrange new jobs which he then handed to Mr. Poljak, point.", finished quote. It's about the Marinvest offer that's more favourable. Oversight, however, the Supervisory Board has approved the construction of ships not with "Marinvest" but with "Vessels". Although today a series of speakers, I won't speak individually, and here's my colleague Peronja who I see is already raising this blade, he said that this contract is which is signed is not harmful, it's good, it's beautiful. He's so good that the Attorney's office has filed charges and he's threatening now I don't know what I'm going to do, we're going to see what happens. But it's said there were two offers better. But the Supervisory Board, our Supervisory Board, is not guilty because he wasn't aware, they were deceived. Mr. Vukelic didn't trust Marina Jurjevic either, he's from the SDP, he didn't trust the press, he didn't trust the police, the world etc. He believed Spliti, who said right away at 6 months, had nothing to do with it, went off shortly before she received her instructions. He trusted no one. He trusted himself. Today in what the D.A. said, they weren't aware. I think it's even a bit offensive. Yeah, yeah, I mean, much more favourable to Mr. Vukelic about that. So, the normal thing is that at this point we're looking at political responsibility. In front of the citizens of Croatia who chose us to be responsible for these citizens. In this case, that responsibility should be borne by the chairman of the Supervisory Board representing the Government, the owner, who has the money of those citizens. At the 6th session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board on 14 November 2005, Mr Vukelic did not hold the debate. It is interesting that it does not give for debate or an indication of the administration's observations that there are unwarranted differences in the calculation of even the ships of the "Vessels" of identical ships and, at the very least, $4 million. At the 8th session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board in April 2006, a work plan was adopted, I mentioned it before, so that I am not talking about it now, it is an unwarranted difference in ship calculations for "Vessels" and previous identical ships. At the 9th session of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board on 25 July 2007 and now that is interesting, after all this affair, after everything that has been said in this court and in the papers and wherever you want on TV and on other wonders, one member of the Supervisory Board of Political Orientation, who is not the SDP's but the close authorities are asking to put it on the agenda so that the Supervisory Board can discuss what is perfectly normal about what the entire Croatia is talking about from Split's Peškarija to the Academy of Science and Art in Zagreb, everyone is talking about because it is a topic. We're a politicised people. But the only ones who don't debate are members of the Supervisory Board, because they don't give up Mr. Vukelic. So we're asking for your political responsibility, which isn't much. We're looking for what's normal in all the courteous, civilized, and democracy-oriented countries. Let's not go now, we can talk, we can go back 300 years, we can get to the Mljetjans, they'll be guilty too, they're coming down the forest of miracles, so they're guilty of these ships. But we're talking now and here about what's going on with these Wessels contracts and what's going on with the Oversight Committee that was bad, which was bad. Well, you're taking it out today that you weren't aware, we didn't know, we didn't have time. That's not right, Mr. Wolfellic. And that's why we're asking for your responsibility. As for Mr. Hebrang, I know you're one of the last renaissance types, you were also the Minister of Health and Defence, and now I see that you're also a linguist. I just didn't know you were a trained private investigator. My best man is no director. He's a regular communal director. And I don't care who your best friends are, but you remind me very much of Francis Ford Copula Kum I, II, and God damn it, III.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84845	Like this, if there's been an insult before and now you've offended Mr. Hebrang. But let's move on. First of all, I'd like to inform you that it's past 10 minutes' notice at 11 and 40. Then correcting incorrect allegations, we begin with Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Jurjević, as well as in the opening statement, makes incorrect claims. He keeps saying that there were better offers. Better offers didn't exist. It repeats that it is a lateral letter, that they contained plates, sheets, etc. Which isn't true, and he claims it's revealed again where the money ended. It is the easiest way to determine where the money ended up based on an account where it was paid, but we support the investigation of whether there were illegal actions, rather than insinuating immediately that it was the supervisory board, Minister Vukelic, and immediately on the basis of these false thesis and settings to express the wrong conclusion and ask for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84847	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84848	Thank you very much. A fellow Jurevic, as usual, leaves when he is told what he did not say, but I will say one thing. So it's not exactly his quote. First they knew of a better offer, they knew of a more favourable offer. We've already pointed out several times, the second offer was no more favourable because it predicted only 35% of the advance and the chosen 50%. Because the delivery payment was less than the new offer, with the new contract. Because there was no clause for collecting steel, because 20% of the euro payments were not included for dollars, etc. Another false assumption is that I'm a Renaissance guy. No, but I'm sorry, because that means that you would never meet his communism, you'd be happier.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84849	Thank you. Let's move on. Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84850	Mr. President. My friend Jurević, everything you've been saying is not true. ... He's gone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I will not say as Mr. Vuljanic told his colleague to talk in the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jurevic wasn't telling the truth, so I'm going to say this. Since 2004, since the Minister of Economy has been in place and to this day justified his business and also related to the Supervisory Board at the shipyard. The basic indicators of the shipbuilding site Mr. Jurjevic are as follows since 2004: the number of ships delivered is 25 in 2004, 2005. 22, 2206. 28. As for the reserve investigators, hebrang never played that role as played by Mr. Jurjevic, the wolf changed his hair and never did. I am sorry that her here did not do what his predecessors did, as his predecessors did, would not have the Interpol document which was a correspondence to the Croatian MUP just arrived in the hands of Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Why didn't it happen to me? And yesterday, they buried one of my cousins, and his uncle was named for the murder of nine people at the High.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84851	Thank you very much, ma'am. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84852	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. A colleague persistently repeats what is incorrect because there were no more favourable offers, it is a clean planting and replacement of thesis. One part is that an e-mail came from the "Marin West" company where they showed willingness to discuss two ships. However, it was not even a solid offer and it would not be more favourable than the contracts signed, because it was two ships, no safeguard clauses, no part of the price expressed in euro, the funding conditions were more unfavourable, and the results of the new constructions already taught during that period saw just the lack of such elements when there was no part of the dollar price, part of the euro price. It is therefore concluded that this particular sale was the most favourable. In addition to the "Marin West" company, ships are being built today, and they never wanted to accept the terms...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84853	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Let's move on. Minister Vukelic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84854	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors and Gentlemen. I am obliged to say because of the other members of the Supervisory Board mentioned today what is true, because here is often heard the thesis Vukelić made a decision or as chairman of the Supervisory Board, did what, the Supervisory Board made decisions clearly after the discussion as a body and did not make any decisions on its own. But here it's also being manipulated by some story about the prices of ships, which is still important to say to all those who don't follow the shipbuilding so much, because finally this investigation that was launched against the former administration was launched because the ships were negotiated below the price they were worth on the market. So I'm going to say that these all, therefore, who warned at the Supervisory Board's meeting when they discussed whether there were new offers or not, when the board clearly refused any possibility that there might be other offers, so it was said on the Supervisory Board, so those who struggled to make other proposals for which the Supervisory Board had no knowledge, that the team, along with former member of the board of directors, had not been replaced by HDZ when it came to the head of the Croatian government because he said that the work should be done by people. At a meeting of the Supervisory Board on 8 September 2004, Mr. Curdin asked for consent to sign with the Greek shipowner Karnesis, 4 tankers at the price of 42 million kuna. The supervisory board didn't give consent because the same boat is working in a shipyard for $1.5 million higher price and it's said we can't, as you're doing this bigger now, go to less. He can't. But then again on November 17, 2004, at a meeting of the Supervisory Board where I was not once again Mr. Wonderin proposed to sign a $42 million contract even though the tanker's price was growing, so they were already at a far higher price. He didn't allow the board of directors. Then again, here are the words just mentioned by Ilja Martinovic, a member of the Supervisory Board who really wants to work honestly on the Supervisory Board and fight, and said the saddest meeting of the Supervisory Board on 22 April 2005. Mr. Wonderin has asked for the third time for these four tankers to be signed, to give consent to a contract on 42 million kuna, although at that time the price was over $50 million on the market. After that, Mr. Curdin was no longer the director of the Shipyard d.o.o. He remained director, remained director of the shipyard d.d. We didn't, but we said listen to it so it can't. That's what this supervisory board was looking at, looking at, etc. The price that is now in these speeches is 50 without these extra letters, 50 million dollars. The price after the discussion was held on the Supervisory Board and analysed in Croatian shipbuilding, therefore without additional contract prices were analysed whether or not it can be done at that price and the finding is that it can be done at that price without loss. That's what the Supervisory Board was doing, that's the truth. Because of Ilija Martinovica, other members of the Supervisory Board who were not as we heard politicalally oriented these or those, but people retired from the shipyard interested in the smuggling and so they did and were discussed on the Supervisory Board. On the basis of the information provided by the administration and by those former and old, it was discussed how not to go to waste shipyards, and that is true and let's not twist it. So I can understand the political game and the politicizing that goes on from the political sides, but in this Supervisory Board that makes joint decisions, not one man makes them, there are honest people who try to discuss at these sessions, and this is the letter that Iljo Martinovic here now, about 10 days ago, sent to chronology as it happened. Of those 42 million dollars, we came to 50. If someone put in such paving letters and the things on which they were based to commit a crime, this investigation will go on and on, but in this case, the Supervisory Board did not give consent to ships, to contract new ships at the cost that would put into question its functioning, i.e. the loss business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84855	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84856	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government. This public debate has been perceived for months as a conflict of opposition with the minister, but today it has received a whole new course of criminal charges against the Board of Brodosplit, and we find it difficult to take away the impression that this interpretation has accelerated this criminal application and that it is not by chance that this criminal application has seen a bright day, the day before the debate on this interpretation. So this topic, so whoever blacked out six million dollars in the Split smuggling so far has been done by a government official on the principle of little Ivica, so when Dad asks little Ivica Ivica why you have units at school, then little Ivica justice doesn't matter because Pero also had three units last year. So we're not interested in Pero or Hansel, we're interested in the fate of the smugglers. So this theme that blacked out six million dollars in Split's square is just part of the iceberg, just the tip of the iceberg in the squares. The situation in Split's smuggling is really hard. The increase in credit debt from 1 June 2005 to 30 September 2006, so at the time of the current administration clearly shows the trend in business. The credit debt in this period grew from about $275 million to almost $450 million or $175 million. When taken for a period of 16 months, the debt of the Split smuggling averaged $11m per month, which does not require any further comment. So these six million dollars darkened in the square are actually the tip of the iceberg. In the field of productivity of work delivered to shipbuilding, there is a further steep drop from 43 to 44 hours per gross registration tone in the previous 3 years to as much as 47.7, almost 48 hours per gross registration tone in the first 9 months of 2006, and now compare this to world productivity of 20 hours per gross registration tone. In the account of profits and losses, the real situation is, of course, even more difficult, but what is fundamental is that Split Shipyard at 1.1 billion sales revenues for 9 months last year has almost 1.6 billion costs, but it is even scarier to expect an annual loss of almost $100 million. I think that the data that we should be most concerned about in this debate, and in the 9 months observed, the total obligations of the Split smuggling increased by around 558 million kuna, which is why total liabilities can be expected to grow above $100 million on an annual basis. So, the state of shipbuilding under this Supervisory Board, and under this one, everything is just not wonderful, and this is just repeating part of the iceberg. The shipbuilding plan and the "Brodosplita" are under evaluation in the European Union from the aspect of the protection of competition. It is, of course, such that my court calls into question the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and this debate is only a contribution to this sad trend. So, while the European Union is discussing the concept of protecting competition from the aspect of restructuring our smuggling, we are also having a debate on whether and who is responsible for the disappearance of this money. So it's about online greed and incompetence, and I find it particularly interesting that each of the functions in the "Brodosplita" administration are competing, fighting more of them, and watch out for the company is in extremely difficult condition. Let me explain to you what this is really about, that is, how we stand compared to others I will mention that in 1968, a tanker sail from Zadar ordered a tanker in Kobe, Slavish Vajner Čič. The tanker was built on a train in 64 days. Today, these deadlines in Japan and Korea have been halved, and in 2007, in Brodosplit, the average is 154 days on the road. So, 30 years later, "Brodosplit" can't even follow those Japanese 64 days on a '68. but it has an average of 154 days. It's about the ability of the administration, it's about who we're dealing with, actually. Marin Krstulovic, observing the construction of the ship, was surprised that they had installed the chimney overnight and wondered if it was an imitation... No Krstulović himself, the chimney is manufactured, but not in this smuggling but 20 kilometers away from the cooperative, and our square acts as an assembly square. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, the concept of assembly smuggling is miles away from thinking about the restructuring of the Brodosplit administration, which only sees "Brodosplit" and some kind of split of its circle. They don't understand what the main problem is. They don't understand what the main resource is, that the main resource is actually highly motivated workers and projectors and engineers. They don't realize that the main resource is the first-class industrial space that has access to the sea, land, railway and road. They don't realize that Hyundai started with Squire, so then using this top industrial resource, they start to produce and the rest, they only think about how this Squirt will rip. The organisation "Skvera" remained at the same level as in the first half of the 20th century. And those are the facts. And when it is combined with the greed of a administration where it is obviously not capable but a politically similar age is a disaster. Contracts are obtained in which the contracting authority has a maneuvering freedom and losses are covered by taxpayers anyway. So we're interested in the fate of the Squire and its survival in the first place. We're interested in Squire workers working under impossible conditions with management being prosecuted by a state's attorney. We're interested, therefore, in the survival of Split's Square. And before we make a decision on how to vote today, I must remind myself that in the previous meeting of the Assembly, the club of HSP MPs has provided for the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in this law that there are no ministers or representatives, especially those who have no time or competence for the job. Minister Vukelic should not have sat there in our court at all. But for Minister Vukelic, I have two very clear questions. First of all, it is obvious that the entire administration is on the run for prosecution, so the question is, did you, Mr. Vukelic, at all, receive quality information on the Supervisory Board or do you consider yourself responsible? Also, we would be interested in how did it happen that Vukasovic was just supported by the director of the shipyard if the information that is now appearing shows that his references were not very bright in his work at earlier functions? And the very key question is, when you learned about this all together because it's obvious that Mr. Bajic has been leading the investigation for a long time, that is, when you called the Supervisory Board to discuss the allegations that are now appearing in the criminal report or did you react in any way within "Brodospleta"? The answers to these questions depend on our voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84857	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84858	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! A colleague, Tadic, wrongly claimed that we are here discussing who is responsible for the loss of money. This is neither the task nor the debate of the Croatian Parliament. We are here to discuss the responsibility of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which claims to be a member of the government, is therefore personally responsible for the Croatian Parliament for its work area. Therefore, it is indisputable that the responsibility of the Minister as well as the Supervisory Board is not determined here but rather by the Minister for his field of work. And for this assessment, it is important to note that it is not disputed between us that Interpol has opened an investigation into money routes that are illegal under international and Croatian law, so whether or not the chairman of the Supervisory Board, he could have known and had to know that he had to control what happened and especially if he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board. We here determine objective responsibility, objective responsibility for things done in the field of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84859	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84860	Here, a colleague incorrectly stated that he was just the Supervisory Board who wasn't doing a great job. He has just confirmed with his work that, compared to the previous one, better and more favourable contracts have been concluded and precisely for the quality of such a Supervisory Board headed by the president that they have provided more and better contracts. Furthermore, also state lawyer Mr. Bajic is not conducting an investigation, but rather conducting a reconnaissance, collecting data on the flow of money, and then submitting a request to the investigative judge or for the sake of the investigation, to conduct an investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84861	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84862	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Tadic did not speak well in his debate and incorrectly said when he spoke about shipping ships. It is not true that new ships are not delivered in time. I'll tell you the data that unlike last time when the additional damage was also caused by enormous amounts of payment of the penalty, since March 2006, there has been no more payment of the penalty and no more new construction. And a new construction was handed over 82 days before the contracted deadline and the shipyard received an early delivery bonus from the shipowner. In this year, the trend continues and today is the handover of a new construction, 37 days before the agreed deadline, according to the auditors and consultants responsible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, you are not sufficiently familiar with shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84863	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84864	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague injured Article 209. Mr. Tonči Tadic briefly and clearly stated how long this part of the ship's delivery takes and the colleague is talking about something else entirely. So it's about time. She hasn't fixed anything, but to him who was in Japan, who knows how to do it, she's making it right now. So where does that lead?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84865	Like this. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because for all those who are 90% who have sought to correct the incorrect allegations, a plate could be raised for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't take us any further on that, please. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84866	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the "Brodosplit" affair has raised a level of interest not only to the political public but also to the public interest which is natural, given the almost correctness of such processes that occur in Croatian society. And of course these topics always have enough reason to discuss them anyway. They can, of course, be used as any subject in relation to their own understandings but also in relation to the needs of how they are who and how they feel. Of course, it's very difficult in this situation, in these circumstances to talk objectively. It is very difficult to say and I will say that any inconvenience and the Brodosplit affair is indeed a problem in every respect and no matter how it ends, whether the judicial authorities will determine the crime that has taken place, whether it will not determine whether the Supervisory Board will suffer the consequences or will not be irrelevant, but this problem that I call it can also be an opportunity in a society that wants to become a serious society and in relation to public communication, but also in relation to the political responsibility of all political entities, this problem should be used as an opportunity. These problems have been in Croatia from independence to today. These affairs or these kind of affairs, or similar affairs, or what caused the trouble was. The key issue, of course, is with the legitimacy of establishing the truth, the key question is how to stop the process of public morphing and the credibility that public authorities are normally losing. How to restore and how to restore citizens' trust in the institutions of the system? Of course, the primary institution of the system is always a representative body. Public attitudes are always almost equally risky if they are unilaterally observed. Politics should always, in some ways, be a little bit more private in the way we discuss it, especially in the way we decide everything together. We at the HSS Club have been back a few years and have almost often warned that the way the state refers to its state property and the way it manages state property is not in the interest of that property and is not in the interest of this society. The government is each invited to manage the property entrusted to it, does not give a wake and why it sells, not that it tries to strengthen its political listeners, not that through its own state property does not make up the function that must be done, which is strengthening the overall economic and moral value that every policy must have. Why, for example, I'm going to open a very simple question, why are ministers even sitting on boards? Why are there ministers who are not paid for their work on supervisory committees? Do you know about going to a social, economic activity where someone does a job, and for that job, they carry material conjecture unless they do it properly without being paid for it. Does the minister have the strength, mental abilities and physical powers to be on five, six supervisory boards? Is there also a regulation of the Law on Commercial Society when it comes to supervisory committees? Is it simply possible to carry out the function of the Supervisory Board's objective through the overburdened ministers anyway? I'm not going to tell which one of them is more capable, who's less capable, who knows shipbuilding, who's textiles, who's the industry, who's the seaman, who's the airman, I don't know. But I do know, in any case, that the narcissism of practice and our system has generated a state that is bad. I agree with Tonchi that the state of shipbuilding is bad, that it is critical, that it is exposed in any case justified criticism but I also know that the situation in shipbuilding is precisely due to Croatia's interest must be corrected and that shipbuilding must be taken into account. Of course these facts and those facts are in favor of this practice being time to break up. This does not mean that we do not advocate the full responsibility of all actors. However, the responsibility of the administration will be determined by the designated competent authorities involved. I wouldn't want to add either point or point, I believe in our judiciary. When it comes to the supervisory board that is given jurisdiction to that administration, then the question of responsibility or command responsibility seems to be if we even interpret it according to the views of how it is interpreted when it comes to some other commanding responsibilities seems more complex, somewhat more difficult, and of course any such commanding responsibility pulls away both part of the risk or part of the responsibility that I believe personally if we share them and do not belong to the man who behaves them. But we've put these people in a position to behave the way they behave. We didn't bring them today so they wouldn't believe it. We had this practice before, but that practice led to no question that the responsibility for the conduct of members of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, lies in that command responsibility and is often not implemented in their personal responsibility because I simply said they had neither paid nor had time nor could they do it all together and the task of the Supervisory Board is in the sense that the modern economy is looking at it, first of all, one management, one management that covers day-to-day business decisions to be within the limit of the expectations of the owner, that whoever owns them manages the property so as not to make decisions that would damage the final business. The Supervisory Board is almost tasked with controlling all important business decisions. Of course, ministers in any government, in any position, cannot accept it, should not accept it, and we must help them to create a chance out of this trouble that we have today, tomorrow, an opportunity that we will all respect together. As a result, the HSS Club and the HSLS Club have proposed, I will, of course, speak on behalf of the HSS Club, but the conclusions are common and proposed, suggested three conclusions which we believe can be traced to establish the relevant truth in terms of management and the possible responsibility of the Supervisory Board, members of the Supervisory Board. But also, we wouldn't just stay on if we were dealing with ourselves and that the message wouldn't have been sent if this was a fight that eminently takes place in the election year and that we took the responsibility that the public clearly expects from these discussions, not only does it expect to be said, "Let's go, Pedro. Let Pedro hang." And the road goes on as it went before. We absolutely disagree and do not agree in this way with political dialogue. Therefore, in point 2, in point one of the conclusions, we propose very simply that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the possible responsibility of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board in connection with doubts about the legality of the business of the administration. In point 2, we oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the necessary regulations within 30 days and replace all members of the Government from the position of members and chairman of the supervisory boards of commercial companies that are largely owned by the State. Under the third conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with preparing, within 30 days, the necessary acts to prevent the appointment of members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to control boards of commercial companies owned by a majority state and thus to start a genuine process of depolitisation of the management of state-owned companies. Why is this important? It's important because you can get the impression and maybe some would want to get the impression that with this we're against the state keeping key packages in some companies, in public companies, and in our opinion important economic and social institutions that should remain in the country's bulky ownership. So we're not trying to make the sale, we're trying to make the offices work, because in our opinion, it's totally irrelevant to the title of ownership. The titler of ownership is one side and the titler of management and management is quite the other side. The worst thing is when these two things get mixed up and then you best sell everything and someone else can manage it instead. The facts say that what we privatize in other privatisations ends up as a government or a couple of government portfolios but some other state. Some other countries, especially when it comes to financial institutions that are currently operating in the field. Therefore, let us not draw unnecessary and false conclusions from this. For us at the HSS club, it is a real desire to overcome this matter, that this affair is not buried underground, let those whose task is to shed light on it according to the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but our political responsibility rests on us tomorrow. We don't want to look behind us all the time, we don't want to look back. We want the practice, rules and new arrangements of the state property management system to look different tomorrow, so that these affairs simply have no reason to argue here. They should be discussed as a professional document entrusted to people sitting on boards, experts who know what $51.5 million is and what is 49 and what is 42, those who know very well and how long it takes to build quality ships. Therefore, politics cannot first give itself an alibi to employ politically similar staff through such a way of political behaviour and after that, when bad happens, and always in such variants, it wants to wash itself of any kind of command responsibility. Therefore, we propose that these conclusions be considered and accepted as a concentration of the seriousness of the Croatian Parliament which will give right to all those who seek the truth but all together will warn us that we cannot always seek the truth, always their own truth and the results to remain the same or worse and the situation in shipbuilding is always worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84867	Thank you. We have a correction to Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84868	A fellow Murterin used eleven times the concept of command responsibility. That's the wrong quote. This is about a supervisory or supervisory responsibility that needs to be come up with differently conceptually. As far as Wolfellic himself is concerned, you've only looked a little more seriously at people's names. One is called Tramontana, the other is Leutic, the third is Cat. We'd have to put a lot more effort into it than you've put into it, so today we wouldn't laugh so cynically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84869	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Ms Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84870	Thank you. I want to correct the quote of Mr. Markov in which he called on a famous term "Let Pedro hang" which should mean that any culprit is sought to justify the existing situation which is not true. We ask that Minister Vukelic, who is the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the minister responsible for the economy, work and entrepreneurship, be responsible for what happened in this shipyard and not anyone. It's time for people in this country to start bearing responsibility for their actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84871	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84872	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, during today's debate, the word "political responsibility" has been heard many times, and it has also been said that we are here to discuss the illegal conduct of the Board of Supervisors and the chairman of the Watch Committee of the "Brodosplit" Mr. Branko Vukelic. I think that's how we should define ourselves and lead the debate in that direction. I'll start with whether there have been illegal actions in the performance of the chairman of the Supervisory Board and whether the Supervisory Board has done its work in a legitimate or illegal manner? I'm going to remind you once again of some facts that have been made, and they're in favour of what kind of contracts are signed with "Vessels" in a partnership with contracts signed with shipowner Karness at the time of the former management of the shipyard. I will remind you once again that the contracts with "Vessels" for the same kind of ship, therefore, the price reached in the negotiations is $8 million more than in the previous period. I'll remind you that the new contracts contain clauses that guarantee protection against currency risk. The clauses containing the protection against the skating of the price of steel on the world market. I'll also remind you that the new contracts have clauses in which the shipowner or the client commits 50% of the contracted prices to be paid in advance while we used to have 35%. I will also remind you that in the new contracts it is agreed that 20% of the agreed price of the ship is paid in euro to reduce the risk of exchange rate differences. So much for whether the new contracts are improved. Has the new Supervisory Board and the management contributed to the quality of the contract compared to the old ones? The fact is also, and this stems from yesterday published on the State's Attorney's Office's pages that there was malfeasance and that there were illegal acts. These illegal actions stemmed from the activities of certain members of the administration and this is not disputed. However, the report also makes it clear and loud that there is no illegal action by the Supervisory Board and that these members of the Board have deceived the Supervisory Board by not citing some important facts. You can read that in the State's Attorney's Office report. How did the Government of the Republic of Croatia react immediately after the publication and initiation of the investigation process? We made a decision yesterday on the basis of a recommendation to the Brodoplita Supervisory Board to relieve suspected members of the Brodosplit administration. And that's a clear indication, are we fighting for the truth? Do we want to get the truth out of here? But I ask you nicely to stick to the fact that there is no illegal action by the Supervisory Board or by the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board on the basis of investigations carried out so far. Now, if we want to talk about political responsibility, then I ask you nicely to expand the timeline, to look at and analyze the political responsibility for the event in shipbuilding for the last six to seven years. I'll tell you just a few things. Croatian shipbuilding is an extremely important economic branch. 12 to 15% of our exports come from Croatian shipbuilding. 18 thousand people with cooperatives work in Croatian shipbuilding. 11,000 people directly. About 1.4% to 2% depending on year-to-year, the world shipbuilding market participation has Croatian shipbuilding. In the last 25 years, 24 ships were declared a ship of the year were manufactured in our shipyards. It speaks of the importance of shipbuilding but it also speaks of another fact. That we must do everything, but in the right and responsible and competent way to save Croatian shipbuilding. That is why we have made individual restructuring plans for Croatian shipbuilding and the National Plan for the restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. I ask for some attention and concentration because in the shortest lines I will tell you what individual plans mean and how to help Croatian shipbuilding. The fact is that Croatian shipyards, these 5 large ones, cannot meet all their obligations at this time and that part of their obligations will need to be taken over by the state. This will create the demand of the Ministry of Finance from each particular shipyard that will turn into the fundamental capital of society, so that we can get back into a situation where the underlying capital is positive. On the other hand, we also have to address the issue of maritime goods because in the case of the shipyard, maritime goods and buildings were built on maritime goods in the case of "Oilers" entered into the underlying capital, which is impossible, which is illegal. We need to get it out of the core capital. In other shipyards it entered the property of society. Do you know how many stores it takes to do that? How long does it take for an analysis? How many stores does it take to record each single particle? Set the value of these properties? We will give what will not be in the maritime goods regime, we will give the shipyards to be their property, so that they can pawn it, that the state should not give so many guarantees in the future. We'll return some shipyards, not constitutionally taken, and I'll talk about it. No Constitutionally seized property in 2000 because this shipyard needs to function normally. Why am I saying this? Just to show you how responsible, competent and professionally accessing this moment in the restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. And now I am withdrawing the question of political responsibility. We're discussing Mr. Vukelic here today because he was, which is the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board. And now I'm asking you like this. We have an example of Lance. We talked too little about "Lance" today, and I'm sure I'll shock you with some of the numbers I'm going to take today. I'm convinced you don't really know how much the claims of state creditors in Lance are? I'll ask you like this. If I owe someone a thousand euros, that's my problem. But if I owe someone 100,000 euros, then that's the problem with whoever I owe it to. Because he doesn't know how to charge me. In the case where the state gives private company guarantees, when the state becomes a believer of a particular private company then it is a problem and guarantees. Then there is the political responsibility of those who gave such guarantees. Who didn't run anything to charge for it. Now, listen to how much the demands of the state's creditors are from Lance. HABOR 136 million kuna. Ministry of Finance 326. Croatia Security 19.9. All state creditors total 517 million kuna. Who took political responsibility for that? "Olinik" as a state shipyard, as a believer in "Lance" 187 million kuna. The total liabilities of "Lance" on the day of the bankruptcy of a billion 80 million kuna. We've been losing all day. We're not losing, we're arguing. And praise is worth discussing responsibility for the 28 million kunas that have disappeared, gone. The state's attorney's office has determined where they are. It has established a clear responsibility and should be closed to those who may have stolen and who will be proven to have stolen that money. But I'm asking you, 28 million kunas on this side and a billion 80 million kuna on that side. I'm running out of time, but I'll get back to you later, so I'll explain how the reconstruction of Croatian shipbuilding was done in 2000. Who took away the property? How much property is excluded, taken away? Not constitutionally taken, no real validity, no real explanations. And then I'll tell you where that property ended up and who owns that property today. I'm talking about "May 3rd" property, and I'm going to explain to you why and in what way is it done and what does that have to do with "Lenza"? Political responsibility yes, but I ask you nicely, let's not put our heads in the sand because some of the political ones were not responding and otherwise for much greater crime than the one in Brodosplit. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84873	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84874	Dear Mr. Vice President, there were more incorrect allegations from the Deputy Prime Minister. The first is, he says, "If someone is legal we don't have something to discuss." So they're discussing whether there's something legal or illegal about law enforcement. And if, if it's part of it, if part of the administration is under investigation, then what are we talking about? And part of the administration is under investigation. And as such, the Supervisory Board has failed to achieve its purpose and purpose of supervision. If he'd monitored it in time, it wouldn't have happened. He named them, though. And the Croatian Parliament has the right to always discuss political responsibility. And that's this debate. So let's not act in the sense of being convicted, protect others. Are we going to speak responsibly about this problem? It's this debate. These three, as they are called, and the names of the strange ended up under investigation. The Supervisory Board is wonderful and wonderful.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84875	It was the Deputy Prime Minister's opinion, and this is your opinion. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84876	Don't you, Mr. Baby, just comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84877	We have, you've commented on the Deputy Prime Minister's opinion. And you haven't corrected [[I've corrected it. I've corrected it.]] No false quote. [[I did.]] And the way we do it, I keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84878	Phonogram read please Please, a phonogram. [[Intruder: E please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84879	There is, a correction to Mrs Ljubica Lalic's incorrect quote. And don't tell me how I'm going to react, you have no right to it. ... You don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84880	Mr. Vice President... Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said there was no illegal work of the Supervisory Board. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Vice Prime Minister, this House cannot question whether someone has been working illegally or not. That's why there are competent bodies. But we can decide and discuss political responsibility, and that's exactly what we're doing. For what? Because the chairman of the Supervisory Board didn't use the powers that had been laid down by law. Following the failure to comply with the obligations laid down in the Law on Commercial Companies and the powers of the Supervisory Board, it was a shame. I remind you that the management is obliged to report to the Supervisory Board on transactions that could be of great importance to the rentability of business and to the liquidity of society. And the Supervisory Board has the power to request other reports. If Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board had acted in accordance with the laws, the taxpayers would not have suffered the damage they suffered here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84881	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84882	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Vice-President of the Government that the ship-building contracts were the most favourable and that they were decisions and administrations and the Supervisory Board. As Mr. Polancec reads the statements made by the County State's Attorney's Office, then he should read it. That the State's Attorney's Office has established to the County that according to the previous agreement and with the intention to make for themselves and others a non-referencing material gain, accused members of the administration who have failed to have better contracts. So they're not the best. There's better. And it's one of the burdens of the indictment and so it's illegal side contracts. This shall be determined by the competent State Attorney's Office. For a year, the Minister has known that fact. As chairman of the Supervisory Board, he does nothing to prevent crime from taking decisions by the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84883	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84884	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, they're constantly trying to replace the thesis to defend it indefensibly. So that's why the incorrect vice president of the government says we're here to discuss the minister as chairman of the board of directors. That is not true because we are discussing here only the Ministerial Liability of the Croatian Assembly. And if it were wise, the minister would have to answer to the owner, and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament under two kinds of responsibility: political as minister because in the vault for which he was responsible, he was illegally spending money. This is now, however, speculative because criminal charges have just been filed or are being investigated. And for our decision, it is important that the damage occurred in the vault, headed by Mr. Minister, and it is indisputable for us because the international police also demanded that we report how it was done in the "Skver" in Split? At the head of the board of directors, you had to know and know as such, and you were responsible for us to know and prevent it. There's your responsibility. And let's not argue about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84885	I have to say that here it says in the proposal that he was illegally doing his work. So it's... [[Intruder: As Minister.]] I have to give the Rules of Procedure immediate violation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Slaven Letica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84886	Look, he hurt the Rules of Procedure. He insulted the minister. He says, "He's got the brains" and so on. And you didn't even warn him. So we can't question the mind of the Minister in this high house. Where are we gonna go that way? And please warn him later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84887	Thank you for your warning, but I don't intend to warn Mr. MPs because most of them would have had to by now, so the Institute would have gone out and devalued so much that it would no longer have any purpose. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84888	Well, it's incorrect that there was no political responsibility due to the events of four or five years ago. I remind you, Minister Slavic Rukavina has resigned from the post of minister because of the Bagster affair. Neither did she order those filters, nor did she have anything to do with it. She was a government minister, an affair broke out in her ministry. The scandal broke out and she filed, she filed political responsibility. This is what moral people in responsible governments do. Therefore, political responsibilities will always be. If she's never in the election before. If never before is the moment when political responsibility for the immoral conduct of politicians is borne.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84889	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Who gave it? What? Who. I didn't record you, but if you're asking me to come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84890	Yes, says Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister, comparing 28 million kunas in Split, billions and 80 in the Kingdom and talking about this and that side. However, I want to say no to this and the other side. It's all this country's money. It's all the same side. Unfortunately, our black side. All this leads to the loss of the state, the compromise of the state. In the end, it will lead to the privatisation of the Oilman, and we will resuscitate others. I'll say it one more time. There's no other side. It's all state money. One failure cannot amnesty another failure. One crime cannot amnesty another. One thief can't amnesty another. One banditism cannot amnesty the other. One failure can't amnesty the other. That's exactly what sticking your head into the sand is, and it's for a serious debate and a conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84891	Thank you. It wasn't a correction, it was a correction of opinion, and now it's your turn as a representative of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, today's newspaper is full of titles of the “Brodosplit” affair in “morning” is wanted for the “Matček and Leutic” detention. The "New List", "Glas Istria", is opening an investigation against the leader of the "Brodosplita". “Evening” under investigation of both administrations “Brodosplita”, “Free Dalmatia” detention for Maček, Vukasović, Leutic, etc. Luetica. And obviously that means that this affair is going to end. The second one is now opening and it is whether the HDZ, or whether the government has timed to send Mr. Macek, Luetic, Vukasovic into custody as an overture in this debate. If that's the case, then the scandal is even bigger than these six or 4.7 million dollars, because it's obvious that the government can influence God's independent judiciary. It's not a problem when the government is looking for an investigation. That's what you're asking her to do. That's what I should have done. The problem is when the judiciary has timed the actions before the parliamentary debate. If that's the case, then nothing in this country is sacred. If so, and if this non-phonogram has been established just before this debate, it is quite serious even though Mr Vukelic told me in the morning that he would have been happiest if it had happened two or three months ago. For that immorality, a thief, I don't know what I'm going to call him, six million dollars, I guess someone has to answer. But if this is all the same, and I want to believe that Mr. Vukelić did not participate in this, then the question is raised if he was involved in the work of the supervisory board, which blessed the post-painting work on whether this failure should be sanctioned by political responsibility, means it is one pair of sleeves, and the other is the state of Croatian shipbuilding, i.e. in the “Brodosplite” itself. I am sure that Interpol's investigation was ordered by the ship's order, because they feared that in Croatia they could be questioned by these orders, as well as arrangements with some other companies. They're probably too big a company to be involved in this kind of work. And it's a good thing they sent such a message that the other ones in our shipyards are getting out of business like that. This case certainly compromises all of Croatia and the government and administrations, the shipyard regardless of what government sets them up. It's not hard for me to raise my hand for this interpretation. After the State's Attorney's Office came forward, it certainly makes more sense today than it did three months ago, but to enter from the other side into the restructuring of the shipbuilding seven, eight months until the election and it doesn't make any sense anymore. Clearly, when I talk about the restructuring of shipbuilding, first of all, I mean the privatisation of the Oilies. And to be honest, I'm afraid of that privatisation. "The oily" is not yet ready for it, although it is certainly in a far better position than other shipyards and we saw that last year the government gave a billion and 700 million kunas to the Brodosplit last year," "3. May “billion and 700 million kuna, “Kings” 220 million kuna, “Trogiru” 620 million kuna, “Oliniki” zero kuna. On the other side of the medal are the accumulated losses of Croatian shipbuilding from 6.6 billion kuna shown. It is certainly double the amount of this shown only because 6.6 billion kuna applies only to ships that were delivered and were in the order book at the end of 2004. And yet, the biggest losses accumulated by Brodosplit 3.4 billion kuna, Rijeka “3. May 2,18 billion kuna, “Brodo Trogir” 586 million kuna, “Kingljevica” 435 million kuna. It is a real meaning of the problem of Croatian shipbuilding. The same for me coming from Istria is the privatisation of "Oliniks". Although clearly no one can normally say that there are worse opportunities than elsewhere. Yeah, well, it's better than that. When I talk about those six million dollars, it's certainly just a small fraction of what's going on in our shipyards. Mr. Tadic said the company was in huge trouble, everyone's fighting to run the company. Why not? It's because they know that their mandate takes them a year, a year and a half, and that everyone after that gets out of the 90s to two thousand from those companies with millions of marks or dollars. And nothing happened to anyone in the meantime. Maybe the first time something happens to someone. What, how do they do that? Whether via the cooperatives or through the brokers, whether via the shipowners, and therefore someone should put order into the shipyards. The higher someone's position in the hierarchy, the more likely it is, that they will prevent such practice, the greater the expectation that they will consolidate clear opportunities that are all not idyllic, because this year, for the liquidity of Croatian shipyards, it takes a minimum of one billion kunas, which is the background of this interpretation, which perhaps later the Deputy Prime Minister will tell us, and what he said in this act before me. Here I am reading in Mr. Polancec's "New List" interview, the vice president of the government, where he says he'll return the property from "3." May" excluded the third-month power. Equally, after these six million dollars, it was clear that the government or some third party in it would take investigative measures on those famous contracts of the former Brodosplit administration that sold 40 million dollars worth of ships on the market for 25 million dollars and would spend on the construction of 50 million dollars, so the damage at the start of $25 million. A normal man wonders clearly where in those arrangements there's reason, who's crazy about it. But this is also possible in Croatia, and we also know for worse things that the entire Croatian fleets of liners such as "Croatia Line" have fallen into the hands of the international speculator because of absurd contracts with "Biab". But our devil does not give peace. They still prefer to work precisely with this Lebanese or Greek shipowner, that Sipros Karness. It means that time is about to be expected to be straight about these six million dollars of that asset. May and Split tankers sold under every price of every sense, and about Lentz, which is also said today enough not to talk. Now who has the advantage? The government with the extraction of, say, "Lance" through "Oilers" from Pula or Interpol's investigation used in this material? To be honest, I am interested in the first thing, but I am also interested in privatising the Oilies for which I do not want to happen, although it looks like Croatian authorities too, in order to borrow the World Bank "PAL 2" or to start some negotiations with the European Union. Now why sell something that works? Why not sell some bankrupt shipyard in which seven billion kuna will have to be invested over the next seven years, and there will be twice as many? That's the point. I don't want to simply divulge this interpretation. Now we see what the police were doing, now we see what Interpol was doing. Today we also know where the six million dollars are, whose accounts have been settled. But I repeat in Croatia, in shipyards, it is more thought that everything remains the same, a wolf full of sheep in numbers, so that everyone from the warehouse to the manager participates in a small small section. And secondly, in the Croatian shipyards of administrations that change as on liquid strips, they think more about how to settle themselves with a number of several hundred thousand euros than how to help the shipyard. And that's the point. And the fact that the shipyards owe me earlier than I talked about 8 and a half billion kuna, the annual income of the shipyard is 16 billion kuna. Their losses clearly exceed nine billion kunas of core capital. They just don't care. That way it shouldn't or shouldn't. This is an important topic not to talk about shipbuilding in the Croatian Parliament. Who's going to be in charge of the Brodosplit case? Probably Vukasovic, Luetic and Maček. Who's going to answer politically? Probably no one. By transferring responsibility to the old administration because they probably opened the whole case up to the people when someone calls me let me before him. The truth is, in the meantime, Brodosplit is starting to sell ships for twice as expensive as three or four years ago. And that's true. They're making a sale for $51.5 million, that's relatively good. But in this interpretation, be in these accompanying letters that are being arranged for the ship to return to the ship 1 and a half million dollars for what it will clearly acquire, or 2 and a half million dollars or now 1 boat equals $49 million. The money goes to Cyprus for the daughters of Germany's Visels, but these companies pay Macek 4m euros. The cat clearly raised that money. Did he bring it to Croatia we don't know that. He probably paid it by accounts abroad to persons from Croatia, but Croatian police have completely reconstructed money flows. Today no one is saying that finally in Croatia ships of $50 million have started to contract, that's good. But how much we're gonna lose on that ship again, we're just gonna see. Now we know that the ship that Brodosplit would sell for 25 to 30 million dollars so far has cost the shipyard 50 million dollars. Or, for example, The boat they'd buy, it's those three ships Bene, Baluni, Stinice for $31.5 million. They would sell to Greece for $25 million, and that Greek would then resell them for 48 million. No one can talk about it. It's the same thing elsewhere. The Oilman is probably an exception. And that's why it has to be privatized. Why? He's doing the World Bank, which is stupid to me. I'm afraid that, I don't know, while I'm at the Oils maybe looking for a future government, it means privatization of the Oilies, but my message is don't touch the biggest Istrian sanctity of Oil. And in the end, who's going to privatize? I doubt it'll be strangers. It'll probably be domestic shipmen, and the owners of these domestic shipping companies in the '90s had as much as I do today or less. That is why I can only suggest that the Croatian government retain that 50% plus one share and that is the only safety of the shipyard in Pula. The County of Istria has a budget worth 2/3 of the ship. The city of Pula has a budget worth one ship. A state with 100 and I don't know how many 17 billion kunas with... budget funds still have value, with 500 ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, over the account of Dear Cats, the money is coming from Brodosplit. You know exactly whose accounts he was sitting on. They said Croatian citizens. You know how the money worked. Which account was transferred from. As part of international legal aid, the government learned everything two and three months ago. She knew who those people were, where those accounts were open, etc. True, that is the situation in Split. You can go shopping for pomidors and run into 500 thousand kuna in a desert parking lot. So why don't somebody joke about paying a million and a half dollars on your Austrian account. You wanted to, for example. pay holidays in Croatia to be released from VAT through an account in Austria, when there is someone there, instead of a thousand euros, paying a million dollars. No joke aside. Mr. Bajic went out with what he has. Ships are making better deals today, best till now, that should be acknowledged. But the fact is that after a million and 500 dollars, it sat in four accounts, four citizens close to Split. It is also good that Macekov's account in Austria was blocked in the meantime, but otherwise from 2000 to 2006. Ship Split delivered 30 new constructions, and each ship caused cca 100 million kuna losses or 15 million dollars on average times 30 that's 450 million dollars times 6.5 that's 3 billion kuna. To mention now the collapse of the shipyard of this late Vinko Rozic's loss of 500 million kuna in 2001 alone, the miracle that enters the company in July 2002, and a month later, the government gave him a billion and 800 million kuna, in 2004 the state appointed a new supervisory board headed by Mr Vukelic and Poljak in February 2005. The miracle confirms the construction of 24 ships by 2009 worth 6 billion kuna with planned losses of billions and 600 million kuna. I don't think it makes any sense today. Then we come to this Vissl, an affair of these six million dollars, and in 2006. Brodosplit gets from the state a billion and 700 million kuna, clearly the Zero Kuna Oil, but what we will privatize and Brodosplit once again in 2007 and then in 2008 again, in 2009 someone will have to work bloody for both the 3rd of May and the Queen and this Brodotrogir. Well, it's an honor to the workers in those shipyards, but the fact is that you're someone by that logic the smaller the term, the higher the profit, the simple fat mustache and it's inadmissible. But it is not such a situation only in Split, such a situation is in all Croatian shipyards and therefore it really needs one parliamentary investigation and to enter all those shipyards because the situation in a year will be the same as it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84893	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84894	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am actually invited by Mr. Cain's debate to report again and to say it unequivocally again. The interpretation, i.e. the SDP Club proposal states: The Croatian Parliament, their proposal, concludes that the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr Branko Vukelić illegally carried out his duties as chairman of the shipbuilding supervisory board. So what we are or should have been having a debate today is whether the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board were legally or illegally carrying out their duties. I call again on you to read what was published yesterday on the websites of the State's Attorney's Office, from which you will be able to clearly read that there is a certain responsibility of the shipbuilding board members, that this is why an investigative procedure has been launched against them, that the government has therefore reached a conclusion yesterday recommending the supervisory board to replace these people from the shipbuilding board, but also from that conclusion, there is no unlawful exercise of the supervisory board's duties, or there is no illegal work of the Supervisory Board and there is no illegal work of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mr. Vukelic. But when we talk about political responsibility then, as I have told you some figures that I believe you are shocked about Victor Lenac, then I must return to the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding. I've explained in the shortest possible lines how we're going to do it this year and I've started talking about ex-restructures and restructurings. I will say and I will give you just a few more information regarding the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding in 2000. In 2000, one government decision for which, by the way, there are no accompanying materials, no clarifications, seized property by certain shipyards although all shipyards have been renovated, the total value of the seized property was DEM 115 million, out of the 115 million DEM 98 million DEM is the property of only one shipyard that was seized. It's May 3rd shipyard. There is no record of the board of directors, the management never discussed it on 3 May. On May 3rd, the Supervisory Board was never familiar with this in the right way except verbally, never debated it, but property was taken away by a government decision behind which there is no clarification in the government's documents. I'll just tell you a few sentences about what property it's about. It is about building land in Krk, land and buildings in the catastrian municipality of Pernić, sports-recreation centre in Mučići, the business space of Zagreb and apartments, as well as wonders and apartments, 127 apartments were taken away from the 3rd of May, for God's sake to make up for the funds that the state invested in the rehabilitation and restructuring of shipbuilding. I say to God, for if it had been wanted then every shipyard would have been taken away from its property, and there were other things to be taken away, but taken away from it on May 3rd. Do you know what happened after that? Very quickly some real estate were registered to the Republic of Croatia and a very fast commission on the property of the government of the time sold those properties. Do you know who owns it now? I call on a single investigation to also be carried out, to also record all these properties, and to make it clear why this seemed to be and who is today managing these properties. In addition, I want to say, I don't want to speculate much, but that way something was taken out that was not in the property but in the fundamental capital of society. It's taken away from society. This reduced the fundamental capital of society, and you know what was then one of here I will say one of the great projects that was then spoken of by some large guru of Croatian shipbuilding, for example by Mr. Vrhnik and the administration in Lenco. Lenac then wanted to take over May 3rd, and it may have been a much easier opportunity to reduce his core capital and take away this property. That's what we need to talk about. And one more thing, and then the government made a decision to settle for the shipyard of a particular obligation. She made a decision. But she also made a decision on how to make peace with some of the believers. I have here by chance preparing for today's debate and debate on political responsibility, a document from February 20, 2001. This is the conclusion of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, i.e. the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund. I ask you nicely to the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund then to decide where the funds will come from and how to pay a part of the commitment to a believer named LHB International, Handelsbank Frankfurt and is said, and before I read it, I will say that in this House we have held a debate about whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia has legal right or has no exception to certain shares from the sale and dispose of them in another way. Remember last year's debate. Now I'm going to read you how LHB's debt settled. First, the total debt of the olives, I apologize on May 3rd, and "Brodotrogira" is 42 million marks and it is said to be settled as follows. It is excluded from the sale of an oil share of 33 million 400 thousand marks, which accounts for 15.7% of the total underlying capital, and with that 33 million 400, a commitment of 16 million 700 is settled. So the applied fee ratio in shares is 1 to 2. I'll say it wrong says 2 to 1's. Secondly, it is excluded from the sale of the apartment "Medeno" Trogir and that stock value, the nominal value of 9 million 430 thousand marks, which accounts for 62.93% of the total core capital of the company, which settles the obligation of 4 million 715 thousand marks. The fee ratio in shares is 1 to 2. And now says the rest of the search, so we haven't all worked up the rest is a little bit longer. The remaining part of the demand, gentlemen, will settle so that it will be paid in cash to LHB's account the amount that will be later agreed on, but that amount can be raised only from one source by privatisation and by selling 51% of the shares of Anita d.d.'s company. Vrsar. Why from right here? Why not privatize "Pika" Vrbovac or White or someone else? Why this company? And also, the rest will settle from the proceeds from the sale of the Zadar d.d. Hotel. The nominal stock value of 100 marks is 13.084%. So gentlemen, then the recovery was carried out in a way that excluded 98 million marks from the core capital of one company, that then the government's commission decided on who and how to sell these assets, and I call on you, to invite all of us to see who are today's owners of these assets, and thus the obligation to settle for the exemption from the privatisation and sale of shares of certain companies and to pay those shares in a ratio of 1 to 2, and I say 2 to 1 again, and that wasn't enough, but then it was said to sell the shares of that company and those companies, and then the rest of the money will be settled. Croatian shipbuilding does not deserve that. Croatian shipbuilding, all employees of Croatian shipbuilding deserve a competent approach to the real individual recovery and restructuring plans, and when we talk about responsibility is a clear criminal responsibility of management members and there is no dilemma, we have made it clear after the state attorney's office said it, and when we talk about political responsibility then indeed some should not raise their heads and should not report for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84895	5 corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84896	I won't answer to the vice president's irresponsible behavior. We'll have time. Do you want to listen or will I wait?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84897	Okay. Peace, please. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84898	Because you know, the vice president's job if he finds illegality to report it to the State's Attorney's office. Therefore, as a parliamentary representative, I warn [[/Intruder: What are you correcting?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84899	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84900	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84901	A colleague of Zubovic, please. I'm in the middle of a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84902	I say again, warn and beg the Vice President to forward these words of his illegality to the State's Attorney's office because he is responsible if he does not, and apparently he does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84903	Comrade Linic, correct the incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84904	Okay. It's my duty as Parliament's representative to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84905	Don't warn, you have a correction. You know what a correction to an incorrect quote is, not a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84906	Correction of an incorrect allegation. It's illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84907	Thank you very much. Time's up. Honorable representative. Peace, please don't. ... You can't take the word yourself. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. ... Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you can't put it through the correction of an incorrect quote. No, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure by you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. Peace, please. Don't throw it away, so it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84908	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84909	Peace, please. Mr. Lonchar, I warn you. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84910	Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's allegations that there has been no illegal action by the Supervisory Board may be relevant, but for this matter it is not important at all. In fact, the Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia had the obligation and tools in his hands as minister and responsibility as minister and as chairman of the Supervisory Board on behalf of the owner to control the legality of the business of a company owned by the Republic of Croatia which he missed. I'm not even interested in motives, and justifying the minister's unhappiness and irresponsibility that someone else had done it before and before for Croatian citizens has absolutely no value whatsoever. Responsibility is determined by specific, individual, and today. Therefore, Mr. Minister could have, and should have known about the illegal business at Brodosplit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84911	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84912	It completely incorrectly shows Vice-President Polancec when he says that just because the State's Attorney's Office has filed an investigative request against the administration, it proves that he has no responsibility for the minister. It just doesn't matter to each other and one of these doesn't come out. But the fact that Vice-President Polancec is returning to 2001 and that HDZ deputies are obstructing his colleague Linic as he speaks proves that he has the right place to investigate the responsibility of Minister Vukelic only won't be allowed to prove it. He's pounding.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84913	Dear Representative Nenad, Davor Cain. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84914	I'd like to really determine this topic. Why Anita? Why TDR and so on? No, no, no, no. [[Intruder: What do you want to establish or correct an incorrect quote?]] I'm going back now, correcting the wrong quote. Because at one point, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Polancec mentioned "The Oilman". It's not about "The Oilman". It's May 3rd. However, we do not want to do the same tomorrow with the privatisation of "Oliniki" because the damage will be enormous for both employees and Croatian shipbuilding. for Pula and Istria and Croatia [[So, fellow Caine, give it to you as well.]] It is. [[Agreement: Not a correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84915	You're going on purpose, peace! Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84916	So here's Mr. Deputy Prime Minister trying to convince us and point out the need to question someone else's political and other political responsibility which is not true. We have a document here, and we know exactly what we're discussing today. But when I listen to Mr. Vice President, then I'm really sorry he wasn't a representative in the last term, so he could have raised the issue of political responsibility. But I'm pretty sure he wouldn't have raised the issue of political responsibility because at the time, he swore his affection and loyalty to another political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84917	Okay. And now what was the correction, please? That's one statement, one score. Proposer Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84918	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As things have been going on so far, it's obvious that he simply wants to get away from what is the subject of the conversation here, which is quite clear. I've warned her twice on behalf of the proposer. This is about the political responsibility of Mr. Minister as chairman of the Supervisory Board as well as the responsibilities of the Minister under his jurisdiction. We're now listening to the thing from the beginning of this millennium. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, you can take measures, you're even obliged and you're required especially as a carrier, high-ranking state authority to run what you've said here, run to the State's Attorney's office, and so on. And not to use it to keep us from talking about what we sat here for today. And this is a proposal to raise the question of Mr. Vukelic's responsibility and to vote his mistrust. Because he didn't know or didn't want it either on purpose or on purpose, it doesn't matter to me now, even though it's not in all contexts anyway, run the Brodosplit Supervisory Board and damaged the citizens of Croatia. Citizens of Croatia. He damaged them because he insisted on accepting a contract that was harmful to these citizens because they would pay the price. They'll pay the price. Sam said he couldn't track what was going on down there. Sam implicate asked for his responsibility. Sam implicated himself and replaced even if you thought healthy logically. And in every school, there's a lot of people here who work in education from, I don't know, elementary to college. At every school, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you'd get a unit because you were asked for chemistry, and you were responding to geography. You're wondering about Mr. Vukelic's political responsibility and you're telling us about the PICs. So talk about PICs, but when you put that dot on the agenda. So what bothers you and yours and ours? And the only real answer is to get away from the subject, toss smoke curtains, smoke bombs so you don't see what every blind man sees. That it was someone's fault. So you can pour ashes, put on wallpaper, put on what I know, sand, but you can't cover up the problem. In Emperor Troyan's goat ears you know? That music plays no matter how much you're trying to cover it up. And it's a simple thing. There's no other place. Most logical, most normal and necessary to talk about it right here. And you want to talk elsewhere just not here. You're mixing criminal and political responsibility. And we have made it clear from the beginning that we are talking about political responsibility. And I think that's the minimum we want to talk about here today. The guy's excuses when someone catches you stealing bread, you say, "But I know one thing that's stolen 3 kilos of bread and I'm just a kilo." What difference does it make? It doesn't change things anything. We're talking about a specific matter. I think you're attacking logic, attacking the common sense of the average citizen of Croatia. You're attacking all of that. I see, I see you're happy to come out of the bench without giving you a word and attack and the foundation of polite behavior. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And who is the dear gentlemen? But that too, and it can be learned despite the great phallings in home education. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84919	Now we're going to fix some incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84920	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Jurjevic said the minister damaged Croatian citizens because this contract is harmful. It's at this stage simply incorrect information. Regardless of the seriousness of the whole situation and the seriousness of this request to open an investigation, we must be aware that the damage has not yet been established or proven. We're just in the phase that a request has been filed to open an investigation. That's one thing. The other thing is just opening an investigation. The third thing is, will the indictment be brought against anyone or not? The fourth I conduct the procedure itself and determine the damage. And here I'm afraid that all the time, like my colleague Jurjevic, we're prejudging the damage and we're starting to see that the damage exists. I just don't think it's appropriate and, of course, it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84921	Second correction by respected representative Zivko Nenadić. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84922	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Jurjevic, that the citizens have been damaged. Simply my profession, my invitation to a math teacher does not allow me to simply calculate 8 million euros times 4 ships is 32 million euros more agreed than it was during you. Therefore, this information speaks of how damaged the citizens are, and what Mr. Jurjevic is doing here is more of a circus than a Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84923	Next correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Peace, peace, peace. Peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84924	So I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a fellow who says he has damaged the citizens of Croatia because they will pay the price which is not true. We've seen from all the data that will pay whoever did something wrong or did something, who took something. But it is a sin of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ministers for what the Supervisory Board actually maintained in the official premises. 'Cause that used to be on a yacht where the government's representatives planed to ask Mr. Vrhnik how many do you want? Then the people will pay for it. You'll get whatever you want especially if we still share it with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84925	Dear Representative Branko Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84926	Mr. President, we've all been declared blind here. And I don't think Mr. Jurevic sees that he doesn't change rhetoric for the second decade in this House, he's harassing us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84927	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84928	counterpart Jurjevic said the minister was guilty and that the Croatian Parliament should determine his guilt. Since when has the Croatian Parliament taken over the role of attorney, court, prosecutor's office and everything else? Well, I suppose you know what the task of the Croatian Parliament is, and what it is for the judicial bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84929	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84930	... The Reds like it so they turn it off! [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] It is clear from the beginning that we are talking about political responsibility. It's not true because here four people in this panflata have applied, spoken the words illegally, unlawfully, corruptive motives and persistently expressed the illegality of business. The second thing that's incorrectly clear is we've made it clear. You did not make it clear because this panflette has 10 language errors per page, so our young colleagues upstairs on this stage would be ashamed of this kind of text, let alone you who are of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84931	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84932	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors and Gentlemen. I wouldn't say much, I've already said a lot. Once again, I will repeat what it is and yes, that what the Government has said in its obvious and what Vice President Polancec has said often now, and today I am here in front of all of you, and I will repeat it once again, there is no illegal work of the Supervisory Board or of the members and all the decisions that have been made in spirit, therefore by legal regulations, and this interpretation states just illegal work, illegal work. Therefore, I think it should be made clear and loud. There's one more thing out here that's obvious. I did, and I said it, as Mr. Cain's distinguished parliamentary representative said, coming here safely because of the attacks that went directly to me, first of all, from the ranks of the SDP very harsh and I must say that it was in my interest that this truth should be determined, that the investigation would be completed. Therefore, this stage of reconnaissance and the launch of the investigation shows that there are no elements of the illegal work of the Supervisory Board, and I think it's clear to everyone today. And it was once again determined by the state's attorney and police that what the SDP wanted to transfer to this government is that the old administration and investigations against the old administration are not exactly true for this new administration. Because since 2003, there's been a warrant to launch an investigation and conduct it. However, this has not been carried out. Why? Let someone else say that. Here I have to say here's the honourable parliamentary representative Mr. Letica is here, I can't seem to be here. I don't consider this debate or any parliamentary representatives worthless and that this isn't something. My laugh is just a reflection of my mood and the way I fight against the lies and insults I suffer today from some members of the Assembly. That's one truth, and you have to appreciate that I want to believe that many people say it out of joke, not really thinking what they're saying because they insult both the person and me as a man. Also, I think today is about cynicism right on the side of the SDP. And all of these stories that the vice president states and many parliamentary deputies mentioning the past are not about justifying this present situation because this government has repeatedly taken a clear position and is asking that investigations be conducted to punish the guilty, but to mention past things we point to the cynicism of those who have done unhonorable things, who have done illicit things. The truth never sanctioned, processed, that they now point out and actually want to involve this government and me as a minister in some illegal business they don't have. This government and I, as ministers, did not act against the law nor to the harm of the shipyard. That's what I've been saying since the beginning. That's what the reconnaissance has shown so far. I am convinced and a further course of investigation will show it because I know best whether or not I've done something, but it's cynical that someone else who has a lot of uncleared relationships today has been warning in fact by force for months now wants the minister as a member of the government involved in the affair and accusing him of being directly involved and knowing what's being prepared. Once again, the Supervisory Board has not failed to do everything or anything in his jurisdiction. And once again, I'm going to say it's not a command responsibility like someone said to the board of directors. The Supervisory Board shall give its consent under the statutes. He normally oversees the Law on Commercial Companies, so he gives consent, one in a series of consents to the contract. The agreement with all additions therefore also passed the Croatian shipbuilding as an institution covering the Ministry of Economy, Professional Services, Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian National Bank. All those institutions have passed. And I am obliged to say this because of all the members of the Supervisory Board there that honest and honest people, retired people are sitting and trying to help the shipyard. Therefore, if someone is deceived, a whole series of institutions has been deceived. Is that possible? So if it were not possible to deceive and cheat, there would be no thieving in Croatia. Then what is it? Therefore, I would not like to accept the thesis here that someone, did not take what they needed and Mr Tadic's Club spoke and had some questions which I would like to make clear and in public statements and Mr. Šegvic as a trade unionman had clearly hardened never had any accounts on his agenda or were met by anyone. We've requested a report from the administration. She always claimed everything was legal, according to the rules. We launched an extraordinary review in 2006 to show the indicators. We agreed, we talked to the unions about spreading it to all the shipyards. Therefore, both the Government and the Supervisory Board and the Ministry have undertaken activities to determine the real situation, to monitor the progress and processes of production, to request regular reports on costs, on co-operation, on co-operatives, etc. So that's what this supervisory board was doing. I have to say the truths for the sake of members of the supervisory committees who are not politicians, are not party members, but are people who are trying the best they can to do on that supervisory board. Therefore, once again, there is no illegal, illegal work between me and the chairman of the Supervisory Board or in the procedures and decisions of the Supervisory Board. It's also a recent reconnaissance, and that's why I'm... I'm happy and I've shown it, and I believe it'll prove it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is certainly evident, it is evident that the campaign is, above all, politically politicizing on the part of the SDP an attempt to impose one fact, and this is thus practically seen from this interpretation. So the fact is the involvement of a possible me as the minister of this government in some dishonest business there is no speech about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84933	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, six MPs and representatives have been reported to correct the incorrect allegations. There are two other clubs to discuss clubs. And there are 21 MPs and MPs reported. I'm interrupting the debate now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with corrections to incorrect allegations. And after that, it would be in the general interest to conclude today's session, to conclude the session, that after the debate on this item of the agenda we will go straight to the vote on the discussed 3 points. One is the law on the protection of the confidentiality of information in the first reading. The second are the State Audit Office Reports, the audit reports carried out. And the vote on the election of a member of the Constitutional Court of Croatia and the vote of confidence of Minister Vukelic. So we'd like to conclude this marathon session with that. Resume at 15.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84935	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Deputy Prime Minister who presented the fact that the minister's illegal work was not there. Without respecting the Law on Commercial Companies which defines what the obligations of the Supervisory Board are, without conducting internal surveillance at the shipyard, not to carry out a dedicated audit report which should establish facts relating to the settlement of disputed ships, without preventing the money laundering process, without preventing damage and reputation, for the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, given that money laundering and international crime, which is why we have a negative view of the government's relationship with bribery and corruption, the minister unfortunately broke and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84936	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. She's gone. He's losing his right to a correction. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84937	So in one part of it you said, you tried to explain why you mentioned some of the past things from the last government when we're talking today about a Brodosplit affair that lasts for some year and a half days. Well, then you say you mention the past and that you point to SDP cynicism. No, that's not true, because by mentioning past things, or last government, you're actually kind of showing your own policy, the HDZ policy that you're actually trying to tell, I guess that's where we're wrong, but it looks like they've all been wrong before, although no one's questioned it, so it turns out we're all the same. We talked about it recently, so when they told you that when they caught you with their fingers in the jam, you'd probably want to transfer the responsibility to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84938	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84939	It is an incorrect allegation that the promoters are trying to involve you as minister in the dishonest activities. That's incorrect. You got yourself involved. Now you claim to have been deceived as a supervisory board. But be careful, you're making a statement, you, not someone else, which in April 2006, you confirm that no one was misleading you, that you had full information about everything. You say with all the elements of the contract I'm familiar with. That's what you're saying. That's not what the proposer of this says. And that's because you're saying it, that you've admitted that you've been familiar with everything and that you've done this surveillance the way you thought it should be done, and now we see that there have been dishonest acts, we see that they have been, that you haven't supervised. That's why we're asking for your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84940	Thank you. The HSLS club, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. She's gone. He's losing his word. SDP club, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. And he's gone. And that club loses its word. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84941	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84942	Please make sure everything's okay with the technique.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84943	Since it's not a debate here for one second just.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84944	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84945	There are two responsibilities, criminal and political responsibilities. The State's Attorney's Office has already reported criminal responsibility. And that came out how? Today we read, the State Attorney's Office considers that there is a reasonable doubt that the suspects under the previous agreement and with the intention to make non-conforming material profits in large amounts to the damage of Brodosplit's commercial company at meetings of the Supervisory Boards, etc., etc. So the state's attorney's office found it, named the suspects, and that's why we're reading it. I'm here today in the debate listening to HDZ officials defend these people. The dams, they claim they didn't make harmful contracts and actually oppose the state's attorney's opinion. I'm not surprised by that myself. I think it's perfectly logical that HDZ advocates defend those that the State's Attorney's office considers illegal and that they actually stole, which is another way to put it. The Parliament certainly cannot determine someone's criminal responsibility. Nor can the Parliament punish anyone. Well, that's what the court will do. The parliament can discuss and decide someone's political responsibility. Now let's see if there's any reason to wonder about Minister Vukelic's political responsibility. Are any harmful contracts made? The state's attorney's office claims they did, and that's why he's looking for a suspect's arrest. So, we're starting from the premise the harmful contracts are concluded. Despite the fact that counterpart Peronja and other HDZ representatives here claim that this is not true and that there is no harm done. But we'll trust the state's attorney's office. Did the minister have to oversee that administration that the State's Attorney's office is now looking for incarceration? He had to. He had to for what reason, for what? Well, just because he's the chairman of the board of directors, and for nothing else. The chairman of the Supervisory Board must oversee. It's his job. Now we have two options. Either Minister Vukelic could not monitor or Minister Vukelic encourages contracts like this. If he couldn't control it, if his case got out of hand like he did here today, it means he couldn't control it, and he always argued that the guilty were being punished and that they were being prosecuted, then he didn't know how to control it. If he could not control it, then he must bear political responsibility for not being able to control it. Then, at the very least, he should have been replaced or withdrawn himself from the post of chairman of the Supervisory Board and told the honest public, Parliament, all the people of God, that's where they put me, and I, that would have been a little too much, I have my own ministerial duties, I didn't know how to do it. What Minister Hebrang said is there's too much paper for me to read, and I can't do it for you, and I can't do it for you and I can do it for you, and then I'll retire. And then the government would name someone who would have more time and perhaps more ability to monitor it properly. Another possibility is that the minister was able to monitor it, that he could do it, but that he agreed with the administration when she made the decisions she made and when she signed the harmful contracts. There are a lot of arguments that contribute to this second thesis. First statements by the Minister himself. That's not what's being put in his mouth, that's what the minister said and one already cited statement here that management has signed all contracts with the consent of the Supervisory Board. I'm familiar with all the elements of the contract. Another statement that the minister had shown that the contracts were legal and positive, but that it obviously bothers someone that they were made up according to the Ministry of Economy, according to the Ministry of Economy, which means by the direction of the minister. Which means it wasn't the minister who was deceived, but it was by his own admission that his words gave instructions to the administration that they were just making these harmful contracts. There is another element that confirms this, which is that as chairman of the Supervisory Board, Srdjan Kovac, a member of the Finance Administration who refused to execute a warrant that would cause damage to the shipyard. So even after such a decision by the board, following a warning at the Supervisory Board's meeting that these harmful contracts insisted, someone showed the tenacity to implement them, then someone else had to sign it and this particular Srdjan Kovac. And when he refuses to sign it because he knows it's harmful, then the minister takes office as chairman of the Supervisory Board, uses his powers and replaces such a man. All of this shows us that the minister was not deceived, but that he was fully aware of all of his actions, all of his actions. So he didn't act I don't know about ignorance, in extreme negligence, but he showed tenacity, an envious tenacity to do this harmful work to the end. And Minister Vukelic's behaviour gives us the right to conclude that this is not about ignorance. So he hasn't changed or asked for a change of administration when it came to the affair, and that would be logical. Well, if he didn't know, well, if he was fooled, all right, I can believe they fooled him, but the moment the affair broke out in public because now he's no longer been deceived, so then as chairman of the Supervisory Board, so God's people, you're cheating on me. Well, you lied to me at board meetings. Well, I'll take your shift. And if he had made a proposal to change them, I would believe him today if he had been deceived. But no. He stood behind that administration. Both he and the whole government, and he defended them. And he defended them until today until the State's Attorney's office came forward. And the government's behavior points to this conclusion. The government is replacing the Polish Sinisha and it's one of the victims she's throwing out to the public. Someone's got to be guilty from the Board of Supervisors. Well, in order not to be a minister, we'll replace the Polish Sinisha. And to break those ties a little bit towards HDZ because this same Sinisha Poljak was also the chief cashier of HDZ. The defense of the administration and the claim that there are no harmful contracts. Panic defence by the government is talking about it today, talking about how this didn't happen by accident and out of ignorance, that this was a plan, a plan that was implemented to the end despite warnings. What are we doing here? Well, of course not criminal responsibility. That's not why we're Parliament, and neither can we, nor should we, but we are looking for political responsibility. I remind you of Mrs... It's a sleeve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She resigned because of Baxter. Well, she wasn't buying filters, but there was a scandal in her ministry, and that's how morals are done in responsible governments, that's what we're looking for, and nothing else. Are you going to show that morality and responsibility or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84946	Thank you. We have a lot of replicas, that is, correcting incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84947	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, incorrectly stated that HDZ MPs oppose the state's attorney's opinion. That's not true. We simply took note. We are pleased that the State's Attorney's Office is doing its job and that the State's Attorney's Office has determined the responsibility of members of the current and former Administration of Brodosplit on suspicion that they have committed the first punishable acts of abuse of power, so the present members have committed the act of abuse of power and the other conclusion of harmful contracts. The first is charged or attributed to the damage of $ 4.7 million and others, so for those who were at the time of your government, the damage was done for at least $36 million. Where are you... By what criteria, who will be politically responsible for that former administration that is charged with $36 million? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, Sinisha Poljak is no chief cashier of HDZ. That might be what you have cashiers in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84948	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84949	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Stazic, where HDZ representatives of the dam say the management there did not make harmful contracts. We were talking about contracts, no one was defending anything. However, I would believe you more, but this formulation of the conclusion of harmful contracts in 2000 was an accusation of all HDZ mayors and mayors. Interestingly, this outflow of democracy we heard was clearly signed by the municipal or city council of the SDP, I am talking about 2000 and this outflow of democracy went from the centre of the democratic party. What do you know?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84950	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will quote the words of the esteemed colleague of Stazic: "The state's attorney has found the state guilty.". I haven't read it anywhere, and I haven't even heard it's the State's Attorney's Office, it's just a process of responsibility. No one's ever been found guilty of anything. Whether it's in a few days or not, we don't know it, and I think it's past the time when the party tried and ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84952	Thank you. Next correction, respected representative Kreso Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84953	So it should be reiterated and stressed that it is not true that HDZ representatives oppose the opinion of the State Attorney's Office. It's an inadmissible insinuation. What HDZ representatives are doing is next. They oppose such insinuations as arbitrary and irresponsible Mr. Stazic, they oppose the link to politics without arguments, past the institutions of the rule of law and that is the only truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84954	Thank you. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84955	I quote a respected colleague who says, "Are harmful contracts concluded?" The state's attorney's office claims they did. And then we shall come from the premise that they are made." At the same time, he reads at the beginning that the State's Attorney's Office considers that there is a reasonable doubt. So, Mr. co-worker, between the existence of doubt and the determination of truth, stands the court and the judiciary, not your rhetorical but no logical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84956	The next correction is the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84957	Thank you very much. I have to correct the honored representative of Stazic for making me wrong. He said that MP Hebrang said: "There is too much paper, I can't read it.". I never said that in my sleep. I have stated that thousands of papers are coming to meetings of the Supervisory Board, members and chairman of the Supervisory Board read them all and studied them thoroughly but cannot answer for the truthfulness of the data prepared by the administration because otherwise they would have to spend full-time at the workplace in that company and do the work of the administration. Second, it is incorrect that Minister Stavevic-Rukavin resigned because of her portfolio's responsibility. No, she's directly responsible for abolishing her readiness at the Ministry of Health, so the news of a life-threatening dialysis section didn't arrive in time at Pula Hospital, and that's why seven patients died. It's a direct responsibility not political but criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84958	Next correction, respected representative Zivko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84959	Honored President, colleagues and colleagues. I think for the third and fourth time today I'm correcting one persistently repeated claim. counterpart Stazic says the minister, as chairman of the supervisory board, has replaced Finance Director Srdjan Kovac because he refused to sign disputed payments. And these payments are based on the decision of the former administration not signed, are not co-signed by the financial director. So it's not true that he was removed because he refused to sign because he couldn't even sign it. And of course, colleagues have already corrected this as the State's Attorney's office found guilty, no. The court will find the blame if it is and if we talk about any establishment of the State's Attorney's Office, we welcome what triggered the suspicions of a particular investigation but there is no Minister Vukelic in it. However, not only did it determine the responsibility of Minister Vukelic but it gave him the right not to have these investigative actions covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84960	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go. Last correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84961	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable colleague Stazic cited an incorrect allegation that reads this way: "The minister was not deceived, he knew about the conclusion of harmful contracts.". Well, of course it's an incorrect claim. I don't know, Mr. Stazic, you may have been in that administration there, so with these people you have concluded these harmful contracts so today in front of the Croatian Parliament you can claim that Vukelić participated. Otherwise, I couldn't accept that claim of yours, and that's why it's incorrect and untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84962	Well, now we're done with the corrections. There is one replica of the respected vice president of Mato Arlovic's home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84963	Mr. President, dear colleague Stazic. Look, what's the matter? In fact, the whole Croatian and not only the Croatian public spoke about the problem of Brodosplit of the commercial society. There were so many or so harmful consequences in millions of dollars as companies. It is spoken or rather known that it is a majority-owned company of the Republic of Croatia. It is also known that it is subsidized by Croatia or by the state budget, and if it is now known at least according to what can be read on the Privatisation Fund portal that the government portfolio there is over 90% then it is actually a very serious question whether the supervisory officer had to have increased attention even though the law does not require it but requires regular attention in the exercise of supervision. In this respect, it appears that the Supervisory Board as a whole, and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, in particular, has increased responsibility because, in accordance with Article 250(5), the Supervisory Board may at any time ask the Management Board to report on issues relating to the operation of the company and which have a more significant impact on the position of the company or can reasonably be expected to take place. That fact or that obligation or that possibility was not used and was required to actually do the supervisory board in the light of the circumstances that arise. Second, he had to inform the congregation. And third, he had to take actions actually to get illegalities if he had them removed or done. In this respect it is not possible... It is not possible to argue that there is no responsibility of the members of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board if it happens as it is now happening to file criminal charges against the entire administration and only when it relates when it initiates the procedure of the State Attorney's Office only then, by telephone, the Government is convened by a government where a representative of the Assembly or a majority owner asks the Supervisory Board to relieve management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So "for God's sake" what are we talking about? It is clear that there is a responsibility there is only a question that we need to determine? We do not establish any criminal law or criminal law but the political responsibility of a member of the Supervisory Board who is also responsible in this House as a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84964	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84965	You, colleague Arlovic, rightly warn of the legal obligation of the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board as a whole to have increased control at times when the inscriptions appear in public. And then even when Interpol reports that it's actually a robbery, a crime. It's a legal obligation that you rightly warn of. But be careful. Let's be logical. And even if there was no such legal obligation, so when someone is watching, I wonder, here is Minister Vukelic building a private house, a private one, his own place where he is an investor, and he has some kind of supervisory authority that monitors the construction there and finds out that there are six bags of cement missing, not six million dollars, six bags of cement, would he leave that discrepancy there, or would he replace it? That it was his money. But here despite warnings, despite Interpol getting involved. Despite becoming whiteishly clear that the money does not have Minister Vukelic not only fulfils the legal obligation but also a moral obligation as minister in the government to launch enhanced supervision and to use his powers as chairman of the Supervisory Board. To remove that administration from duty. To be fenced by such procedures. And if it is not being built, and it is not being built, but it is also supporting it, it means that it is with them, together with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84966	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84967	Thank you, Mr. President, ministers with, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. On the occasion of this proposal, the chronology of the whole event is not repeated here because it has been said so many times and in the media as well. In addition, the matter is already in front of the judicial institutions and that these things are not repeated, I think we should update the issue of the Croatian Parliament right now. And ask one fundamental question of the roles and places of ministers but also of general government officials in the supervisory committees. And why and why is that? Yeah, and a lawyer, anybody. And mostly government officials. The Company Act, when it speaks precisely about the tasks of the Supervisory Board, then puts it exactly on its own supervisory board and, in particular, to the chairman of the Supervisory Board, explicitly and taxively designated duties. It has already been mentioned here, here it is now that counterpart Arlovic spoke about the duty of informing the assembly of certain knowledge. Therefore, all obligations of the members of the Supervisory Board are set out in the Law on Commercial Companies. To link this to our Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, which is particularly under the scope of the public and its application. It is exceptionally allowed, so the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest allows for exceptional membership in the supervisory committees of state officials. So only when it comes to such companies, such companies are mostly owned by the state. So which are of particular interest. So that's one exception. Yes, let us just remind ourselves of the situation discussed here and in our Parliament, the basis of this law of government decision or proposal, and it was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the list of companies of special state interest. And before we look back at that list of companies, maybe we've all got our hands on what it's all about. When a fundamental law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was made on several occasions, this fundamental provision remained and remained in some way followed by legislation and other European countries. For example, France. And one France also has such a provision that allows their officials to be exclusively members of the supervisory board but these are, what are state-owned companies of particular national interest? These are two or three companies listed. So which are of particular interest to France. And it is a matter of such enterprises. It seems to me that it's about the railroad and another one, and one or two companies. And what have we done here with the will of the majority? We've established, we've established a list of companies of special state interest and that's 210. Does that even make sense? So there's a company that has a share capital of 8400 kuna. What's that for? And then we relativize everyone's responsibility. Where anyone can be responsible and when everyone is responsible, and when everyone is responsible, no one is responsible. We therefore ask and update the question at all what will the ministers in the Supervisory Committee do? They have so much work to do where it's really possible and to be deceived. But that I don't repeat everything my colleague Stazic said. Now we are already on the ground facts that will be the subject of another fortress. But we here have to imagine why ministers on boards. You also remember our novels of criminal law and incrimination about sanctioning economic crime, which puts a special emphasis on governance structures. So on the responsibility of the administration and the responsibility of the supervisory boards. So everywhere in the world, in our own Europe, which is closer to us is the special responsibility of governance, management structures. With us, it's relatively according to our existing law, and that's what we should be changing. But the persistent majority rejects the novel sanctioning economic crime that would include governance structures. But then you would find yourself really in the management structures of those who are familiar with things and who are willing to do so and have to answer precisely because they are on those duties. But here we have had three times we've been nagging the whole situation. After the Constitutional Court abolished the Penal Code novel, since it was not adopted by the majority required without entering its content. But this is rejected by reason that the existing legislation is also able, i.e. it is so normised that it can also cover these situations. But he didn't. No, and we see this all the time from an annual report by the State's Attorney's Office, which constantly warns that there are inadequate instruments available. And also this case, as well as many recent cases, raise the issue of further criminal justice reform and police relations and the state's attorney's office. You know that the last change of the CAP, or the last change that went just in order to link the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the police, and that there can't be two administrations and two commands, was in some way a bypass to what should have been long ago... start in that programme of harmonisation and development of criminal justice reform, which is that part of the regular authorities that are working to detect the perpetrators and traces of criminal offences are placed under the authority of the State's Attorney's Office and that the State's attorney has the authority to issue binding orders over the regular authority, which means being ready to be part of his executive authority to fall under judicial authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has not happened until today, and even in those announcements that are still going in the direction of the suspension of the investigation, they do not foresee a situation like this. The executive authority in this part should not be afraid and afraid to say that part of your strength in this word is the police, but only in this part puts it under power, put it under judgment, i.e. Under the authority of the State Attorney's Office. Then there wouldn't be a ping-pong situation if the State's Attorney's Office was responsible in some particular case, if the police were responsible. We have two orders today. The state's attorney's office may order the police to perform certain activities, but he has no right to control and no right to sanction. Where an investigation is missing, where the State's Attorney's Office has binding orders and where practically the police are just a service of the State's Attorney's Office, it's not happening, because then they don't respond to their director or minister of police, but directly respond to the State's Attorney's office. Therefore, in this sense, if we have a serious intention to sharpen the responsibility of people in Croatia, especially those in certain positions, in certain places to be ready for such things and to answer. But that's possible, because everything will eventually be eliminated if we keep on this trail. I believe that if, I say, we verbalise that determination and preparedness then this amendment to the Penal Code on that trail should happen, and the law on preventing conflicts of interest should also be amended. On that trail, it would also be a groundless list of companies of particular national interest. So it was obvious then that the intensity to be declared to companies of particular interest and those in no way at all, but precisely to find state officials, and when to answer, then there's another story. So, if you'd listened to what we've been saying for a long time, we wouldn't be in this situation right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84968	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84969	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who's completely incorrectly claiming that ministers shouldn't be on the board of directors. So here I know an example of a minister when he was on the INA Supervisory Board helped us say a small Rijeka company of the type "Europetrol" becomes a large company. Keep going. Let's say the minister at the House Council Supervisory Board can help drug dealers get out before they get out of prison, clear up the gas station situation and stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84970	Was that a breach of the Rules of Procedure? It is. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84971	My colleague is correcting my opinion. So, at all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a provision in Article 209 where it abuses this institute by correcting my opinion, and also by alluding to the very clean things that the public and the state bodies have spoken about. I know you're sorry and that you'd buy against us what you'd say, but there's no market where such goods are sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84972	Dear fellow Members, you will agree with me that this has been a little too far-fetched, impeccable interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Was it a bit of an unbiased interpretation? A little rubber is whether, because then it would be like a verbal delinquent one. But how can an opinion be expressed differently than if it comes out of its insides? If he stays inside himself, then there's an ulcer. Yeah. And respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84973	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Ingrid Anticevic, a colleague of Mr. Minister's, never runs away from his responsibility. Pace, he proved himself to be a very responsible minister in the Croatian government not only this case, because he has always insisted from the beginning that all investigations be carried out in connection with the "Brodosplit" and all the areas where he works. He pointed out something contrary to what you attribute to him and you said that this procedure or this possibility must go urgently as if you were a judge here, and you were the minister of justice, that a verdict should be reached by Minister Vukelic. That's not true. Then what would happen to those colleagues, what would happen to those colleagues who ran Victor Lenac, the Rijeka Bank, the Excelsior, the Savudria. Is that how you said it? It's all the things that don't matter to you. They're important because it's said that crime and a war criminal don't get old. You say it's about the boards of directors. One of your colleagues was on 19 supervisory committees, ma'am, and if Mr. Vukelic needs a lawyer, Mr. Minister, I recommend Mr. Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84974	There you go. Let's move on. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84975	Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, so look what's most interesting in this whole discussion we've had so far. We have a situation that no one pays particular attention to. Namely, our colleagues, government members, Minister Vukelic and Deputy Prime Minister are in a bit of a divided situation. At the same time, government members, at the same time, represent companies, one as chairman of the Supervisory Board, and the other as the President of the Republic of Croatia's Privatisation Fund, which manages a government-owned portfolio. And what amazes me is the fact that instead of raising the responsibility of members of the Supervisory Board and of the Supervisory Board and of the administration because of the harmful actions that have taken place in the company we have here the President of the Fund who defends this very harmful situation in which such a society is located. And it's not possible, it's not possible, it's an absurd situation. Under the Constitution, property is guaranteed, but under the Constitution, ownership is binding. The Assembly of Shareholders also chooses the Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board by force of the law he must do, convene the Assembly when it comes to the welfare of society, must do so and then, in fact, as the owner, could take work and legal and economic and moral interests and others to protect the interests of ownership. And that it may raise the question of liability as set out in Article 273a in respect of compensation for damages if adverse consequences have arisen. Look, we can't fool ourselves now that there are no harmful consequences when, at the same time, the State Attorney's Office claims, among other things, that there are also forms of criminal offences for which it initiates and raises criminal charges. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues return to the key issue. Did the chairman of the Supervisory Board also take this by force of the law to protect the interests of society and the welfare of society in relation to the congregation? It's not. Did he take those stores to the administration to brief him? It's not. And did the congregation itself eventually take action to do so? It's not. But something happened that, at the same time, this budget, i.e. this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, singled out the taxpayers' money that subsidized this same society to compensate for the damages and adverse consequences among which not only were the results of objective business failures but also the results of subjective regulations, and apparently also criminal acts... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84976	Second replica, Honored Representative Franjo Arabovic. Come on, come on, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84977	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84978	Mira!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84979	Before I say anything in my replica, I'd like to welcome our Ingrid here with us after a long break. And like this, the lady said nice she'd throw out all the ministers so they wouldn't be on the boards. That's the first one. Well, I don't know, you've been a minister for three years, right? So please, as Minister, can you, your ministers, have been in as many supervisory committees as possible, and I am particularly interested in Mr Linic and Mr Churchvenac. Was it you I don't know, on any committee. And do you have any solution as to who would be chairman of a supervisory board in companies that are of particular national importance? You just said it was wrong, and I didn't hear any solution. Who would it be? Who would I let run my house? A neighbor? I mean, you understand. That's one problem so we all have something against us governments, any government, and I haven't heard a solution. And I wouldn't have the confidence to give a huge amount of money that goes to companies of particular national interest if we didn't have any control over that government, from government officials. Because I find that inconceivable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84980	Reply to the correction, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84981	On the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84982	Yeah, I said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84983	While I was a minister, by the way, I was never on any supervisory committee because I thought I had a lot of work to do and that I couldn't do it well and that I could possibly steal something. And that's not what I wanted to be. Who would it be? Who would it be? One who would be responsible and willing to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84984	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Peace, please! Order! Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84985	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really going to cut my exposure short because a lot of things have already been said and it would just be a repeat. But I'd like to say something because that's what my profession is to say about what management is, which is to oversee in a commercial society because today all the time we've been discussing this item of the agenda we've been chasing and we've simply mixed up the management and management with supervision. The shortest definition of governance is that it is an organisational function and a process to be performed by owners or their representatives. And management is realized by making a steering decision. So these are our administrations which are entrusted to run companies. What's surveillance? It goes through the supervisory board and is also appointed by the owner. The Supervisory Board shall monitor the conduct of the company’s activities in accordance with the decisions of the Assembly, the acts of society and the regulations. He is authorized to review, listen to this, business books, so what he prepares for them reports of administration rather than business books, annual accounts, and he is obliged to submit regular and extraordinary reports to the congregation. That wasn't the case in this case. It was only that the administration or administration submitted a report that these reports were not controlled and that, on the basis of such reports submitted by the Board of Supervisors, decisions were actually taken and other words of such a decision proposed by the administration without any critical review. That's not good. And that's why you need to analyze who might be on the boards. The members of the Supervisory Board shall have obligations. It's not just an additional source of income. At least when it comes to government officials, they have no right to those fees. So he found Professor Tipunić, the Dean of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, to say that membership in supervisory committees is not a sine position, but rather a very responsible supervisory, strategic, information role that must be taken over by competent ones, and I would add people who have time to carry out the job responsibly. It is true that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has made exceptions that officials may be on the supervisory boards of companies that are of particular national interest. And in this case, it turns out it's not good. And in some of the cases that you say the ministers were multiple members of the supervisory boards, so it turns out that's not good. And just because a government or a former government or one before her did it doesn't mean that it's not good that it should continue. Bad things have to be changed. And let me say it in the end. There's always talk here about whether this is a political decision, whether someone's being tried or not. We've specified exactly why we're asking for a vote of mistrust, Minister Vukelic. Because despite warnings of harmfulness in speech, he agreed to conclude such contracts. If he was deceived, in the meantime months both in parliament and outside parliament talk about the case. According to our knowledge, he did nothing through the Supervisory Board, even when Interpol's request for investigation arrived, I am sure that the Croatian Government and its member, Mr Vukelić, were informed about it. Nothing's been done again. It's been said, all this time it's been reported that everything's fine, it's okay. However, contracts have been concluded guaranteeing excellent work, and at the end of the day when the state attorney's office said, when the investigation was launched, neither now the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board is doing anything against that administration, so the government has found it appropriate to warn even the telephone session, or order the Supervisory Board to call off the administration against which the criminal proceedings are being conducted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84986	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84987	Mr. President. Dear fellow Zgrebec, not only that it is, it is a problem that is actually related to the issue of damage. The law explicitly provides for companies in Article 273 who, with their intention, participates or lists not a member of the Board of Directors, Supervisors, Procursor, Assistants, etc. to do something at the expense of society or its shareholders, it corresponds to the company for the damage it has done. It is further said that they respond among other things to those who have done damage and to those who have suffered damage and have the right to exercise responsibility. Now the question is, how will these people start to be responsible, or this company, his congregation, if not at all, if the Supervisory Board was not called and if the president did not do it, and by force he had to. How he's going to call it in to actually call himself responsible, it can't be. Because he himself said, counterpart Vukelic himself as chairman of the supervisory board said he knew about these contracts and that they were not planted on him. Therefore, he was consciously involved in a business that led to adverse consequences for the company. And now the last thing you have to say. As a result, it is important for that provision to call on the congregation, for the congregation’s shareholders have the right to repay themselves. And I ask the question, if it isn't the chairman of the Supervisory Board, I ask the Vice-President of the Government, the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, why he did not take action to bring the Assembly of Brodosplit together and to initiate the procedure for damages caused by all these actions from the administration to the supervisory board, so if you want other persons involved, including those not in society, who benefited from that society, such as Mr. Macek, who is mentioned in the newspaper, etc. that he allegedly had some use for it. Therefore, it is very serious, by the fact that these benefits have been shown or paid in the form of commissions, which is the same company being subsidized from the state budget. Well, it's an absolute failure, it's contrary to the full public morality of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84988	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84989	You are right, colleague Arlovic, when you say that in such a way as not to convene the Supervisory Board, which the Supervisory Board and who, by law, has the right to inform the Assembly, so call an extraordinary assembly and inform the owners of a business that is not in line with what the owners expect and that in this case it is not done. However, the damage may, in part, be compensated, since both board members and members of the supervisory board are responsible for the business of the company, or those who oversee the company, and monitor it in such a way that harmful business can also be conducted. In other words, owners have the right to compensate for damages under the Commercial Society Act both from the Administration and from the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84990	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84991	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would just like to perhaps point out a few more things that have been said here today by my colleagues and colleagues who we are signatories to this proposal for distrusting Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. I take it from the assumption that Mr. Vukelic was appointed to the head of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board, I suppose, because the government considers this company and holds it of special state interest, and then, at the head of that and its supervisory board, there should be one minister who would still have to have a certain weight and another, which I suppose you and in the government considered capable of taking care of the interests of the state, or citizens. After all that has happened in the past about six and a half days, after the details of the conclusion and approval of the disputed contracts have been leaked in public and after it has been found to be six million dollars, I must say that from the whole of your behaviour in the past statement that you were then giving, and also how you're interpreting it today, I can't really conclude that you are actually the chairman of the Supervisory Board, there you have been put in the name of the Government, in fact, lightly crossing the hell of the fact that you've received warnings about the conclusion of harmful contracts, that it's about six million dollars, and I think that this should be repeated here and those six million dollars that you still don't know who and why they're paid, but let some find out the investigation and state institutions that are responsible as well as in the end line some of which investigate whether you're guilty or not. I don't think I have to discuss it today or any of the other agents, any other state institutions. But as a parliamentary representative, I think you're responsible for not paying enough attention to the warnings that have come to you yesterday, saying that everything is fine, that you received positive recommendations from the administration about these contracts, and then of course I'm asking the question of who is actually watching over who? What exactly is the purpose of the Supervisory Board? My colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, has exactly repeated what the Supervisory Board really is and what all the Supervisory Board can and must do when it comes to the administrations of society, that is, all that matters about doing business. If you weren't able to do that, so in this way to react then I can only say that you've allowed yourself to be appointed to the head of the company's Supervisory Board, one firm that this government also holds is of state interest, and whose business problems are in fact, I don't know what you're supposed to be taking care of, in fact, you're not and you don't even know enough. And I think that would already be enough reason for you to step down from where you are right now. Now I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Polancec here, because he spoke here on behalf of the Government and delivered the views of the Government. I have to react to something he's done several times today, especially in that address before the break, and it's not the first time he's commented on the last government in one way or another. In fact, the Vice-President of the Government took advantage of his minister's defence, and not for the first time that he was insinuating from this pay phone, and it would be insinuating until that moment until the same Deputy Prime Minister showed that anything had been done to launch an investigation if he suspected that there had been some irregularities in the work of the former Government of individual ministers, members of the administration, boards of directors, as well as when it comes to the rehabilitation of the shipyard. I repeat, this is not the first time that the Vice-President of the Government has in this way been speaking with a theatrically lifting finger in the air and now listen to this, and as Vice-President of the Government, absolutely nothing has done to eventually launch investigations into the resolution of possible malversions if there were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84992	Thank you. We have 5 corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. And we could go a little faster. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84993	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague said it was $6 million. I will quote to you the State Attorney's Office, which launched an investigation into the exact data relating to the current administration, which is charged by the abuse of power and the application of the damage to Brodosplit for $ 4.7 million and for the former administration, which is charged with making harmful contracts for damages to the 26 million-dollar boat. You're talking about $6 million. You obviously have some completely different knowledge. If you have any other knowledge of about $6 million, report to the State's Attorney's Office about it, but in the alleged innuendos of Mr. Polancec, these are not alleged insinuations, these are the data he made public here today for the pay phone, and that can be enough to launch proceedings and investigations against the responsible persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84994	Honorable representative Andrija Hebrang, second correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84995	Thank you very much. An honorary colleague incorrectly stated: "My colleague Zgrebec and I have said what is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board." They did not say because they did not quote Article 273. The company law which says: "Who, with intent, using his influence in society, leads a member of the Supervisory Board to do something to the harm of society, is responsible for the damage that has been done." So it's not a member of the Supervisory Board, it's the one who misinformed the information that makes him wrong. You didn't say that, and that's crucial in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84996	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84997	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague said that the minister as chairman of the Supervisory Board did not pay enough attention working on the Supervisory Board and that he was easily going through a variety of things. It's simply not true, because the report here today said that Brodosplit was doing much better than in the previous period, and we could say here that during the former government, Victor Lenac was getting huge funds, and no one was from the government at the Victor Lance Supervisory Board, and no one could control the spending of that money. And also a private company, Euroherc, got insurance for all domestic cars. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84998	Guys, let's not do this. You can't do this. Please. Representative. Comrade Lucin, please give your opinion, you have an opinion on this, but you can't throw it away. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u84999	Don't get upset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85000	Okay. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85001	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sobol said Vice President Polancec commented on the work of the former government, which is incorrect. That's exactly what you said. Vice President Polancec presented facts, established facts that spoke about how members of your government worked, and in the sense that he pointed out all the cynicism and politics and inconsistencies of your request here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85002	Thank you. Now I've written down another correctional counsel, but so pharmaceutical that I can't read who. It says Kr. Mr. Crescent. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85003	Well, here's a colleague who said that the vice president of the government performed theatre and illustrated that he was waving his finger. We had just watched a colleague of Arlovic, who, by replicating his colleague Antičević, also turned to us and waved at us, and we know that his colleague did not, there is no theatre performance. That's one thing. And secondly, why shouldn't we comment on your government a little bit? So you're also attacking this government by attacking the next government, so we're not defending ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85004	Replica, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85005	Mr. President, I wasn't showing, by the way, not with my finger, but usually with my hands, but let me further discuss this issue of legality and illegality. One question is, were there illegal shops and the other question is whether the law will apply or not? A colleague also spoke about this and a colleague of Hebrang when he quoted Article 273(1). However, there is also an item 2 which also speaks of that, in addition to the persons referred to in the preceding paragraph, they refer to the damage as solid debtors and members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board if they injure their duties. And now, there is a situation where there is no application of the law or no application of that article to responsibility. And that doesn't go in at all whether it was law enforcement or not. But it won't apply. That's the case if and now I'm sorry there's no Deputy Prime Minister here. If a representative of the majority package in the assembly or assembly has taken the matter down by its decision, it is explicitly stated, there is no obligation of a member of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Board not to... damages if they have acted in accordance with the legal decision of the General Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you have a special item in Article 273(6). The provisions of this Article shall not apply if the members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board,... or assistant referred to in a harmful action by decision of the main congregation of the society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm asking publicly. Did the main congregation of society release the responsibility of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the board of directors? If there's no need to cause damage, the damages. If not, I will speak in the next line which article should be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85006	There'll still be replicas. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85007	Comrade Arlovich! Yes, I have found an interpretation of the articles of the Trade Society Act on what is the task and duty and obligations of the Supervisory Board, members of the Supervisory Board. And then I consider most of all the chairman of the Supervisory Board. I can respect you, too, a colleague of Hebrang who said that whoever leads a member of the Supervisory Board to the wrong, gives him false information, etc., will answer. Okay. But then I'm sorry our minister turned out to be a sucker. At the very least, a naive person is either unable or unable to look at the possible consequences of a contract at which he was warned at the meeting of the Supervisory Board. And by the way, when I spoke about Vice President Polancec, I don't think it's possible and I repeat it from this assembly pay phone to come on behalf of the government, speak, imagine... I'm sorry, let me finish, I've listened to you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85008	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85009	Yeah. Yes, imagine the former government, and then that, too, by pointing out and insinuating that there were possible criminal acts and that at the same time, as a member of that government, he did nothing to eventually initiate an investigation if the government suspects or he personally had some malfeasances. And that's how he breaks the law himself. I don't think that's allowed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85010	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. There are 12 other MPs and a representative. I call on all MPs and MPs to approach the hall, so around 17 hours might be possible given the number and may vote on this and on the other points. Especially about the choice of the Constitutional Court judge. Here you go, pals! Time start now so you don't get damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85011	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we've heard a lot of things today, there's a lot of things being said and it's actually interesting that all the time I'm saying is he's trying to make a replacement for thesis, and then the ball of responsibility is being transferred to someone else, to some former ministers, former government. I think we're almost there, so we're going to get to century seven. That way he's actually trying to take a turn, he just wants to get off the topic of this debate today, in principle, they were wrong, so if they were wrong about what matters if I'm wrong. It is clear to all of us that the Parliament is neither a courtroom nor an investigative body, so it was not intended for us from the SDP to launch a debate on the responsibility of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of Mr Vukelic, anyone we judge and judge. There are national authorities who have to process all the necessary tasks, carry out all the necessary investigative actions and, on the basis of these findings, reach a conclusion on someone's responsibility or irresponsibility. We wanted to open the discussion of the responsibility of Minister Vukelic for everything that was going on in "Brodosplit" and around him and he is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the company. If anyone in this country should obey the laws and work in accordance with them, then it is certainly the Government and representatives of that Government. Brodoplit is a state-owned company and the government is obliged to protect the company's assets. In addition, Brodosplit was included in a group of companies of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and thus opened up the possibility of being a representative of the Government in the Supervisory Board and thus Minister Vukelic was appointed chairman of the Supervisory Board. And there's nothing controversial about that, because I repeat once again, "Brodosplit" is a majority-owned society. The State is obliged to maintain its assets and to take care of the performance of the business. It is also expected that the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship will meet this requirement successfully. But it turns out that what was logical for Minister Vukelic to expect did not in practice realize. When counterpart Marin Jurjevic first voiced doubts about the possibility of money laundering and the disappearance of $6m from "Brodosplit" about the first time in this assembly, he was not only offended by Prime Minister Sanader in an extremely inappropriate way, but the prime minister denied his allegations, and in no case is justified in treating the government as missing. Finally, these contracts, given the calculated costs and additionally incorporated safeguard clauses, are not worse than similar previous contracts, so such a Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot characterise them as harmful." And so the government tried to cover up the whole Brodosplit story. But their accounts were smudged by Interpol, which is there, it got rudely involved in the whole case. And in March 2006, he addressed our Ministry of the Interior with the need for urgent treatment of suspicion of money laundering at Brodosplit. Interpol reports our authorities that part of the money in connection with these jobs has been returned to Croatia via off-shore accounts, means no to me accounts that are being laundered. Now that the whole case has crossed the borders of the Croatian affair, it can no longer be covered up and it can no longer be said that everything was in accordance with the law and rules of the good business of one company. The Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Shipyard of Split first publicly stated that contracts are legal and positive but that it obviously bothers someone that they are made up by the Ministry of Economy. However, as the details of the whole case increasingly surfaced and Mr. Vukelic was exposed to changing rhetoric and now claims that he knew nothing about it and that he as chairman of the supervisory board could not deal with the processes that are happening in the company, there is no time for that. We really must ask ourselves, then, what is the role and tasks of the supervisory committees and their presidents in the first place. He still denies any personal responsibility and the whole case characterised it as SDP's nonsense. The fact is that Mr Vukelić was warned at the 5th session of the Split Shipyard Supervisory Board that there was a more favourable offer and that such contracts were harmful. Mr. Vukelic went over that warning and the chairman of the supervisory board, in accordance with the legal provisions, had to look for a full case report in order to get to know all the details more about the irregularities. Minister Vukelic not only did not do it but also insisted that this job, damaged by the Shipyard Split and the Republic of Croatia, be done. This caused damage to the company in which it chaired the Supervisory Board, caused damage to the Republic of Croatia and also damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because this case has grown into an international affair. And that rightly raises the question of his responsibilities in this whole case. And we can ask the question and responsibilities of the Prime Minister who, in addition to all the facts that have been revealed in the meantime, continues to continue to protect Minister Vukelic and deny his responsibility. But that kind of behavior shouldn't really surprise us. The other day, we had the opportunity to read in the daily press the statements of the State Secretary who joined the HDZ in freshness, and they said: "Now that I am in HDZ, my influence in the portfolio will be strengthened as well.". Another statement: "Working in the state administration system, I realized that if I joined HDZ, I would be able to have a stronger impact on some ideas in my portfolio.". The third secretary of state was a little wiser, so she didn't want to comment. Well, I guess the condition that someone would behave in a quality manner that he was entrusted with is not a HDZ membership card or any other party, whether SDP, HNS, I don't know, that I'm not counting further, but it's primarily his knowledge and his ability to apply that knowledge in practice. After all, the citizens of this country do not care who has a membership card, but they are interested that those who have been given the confidence to exercise that trust and justify it and protect the interests of the citizens of this country and provide them with the best possible life. But it is obvious that Prime Minister Sanader and his government measured all the values of HDZ membership cards, and therefore we do not need to be surprised that, according to these criteria, Minister Vukelic is not guilty and is not responsible for causing damage to the citizens of this country, he is not guilty of having a HDZ membership card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85012	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85013	Mr. Vice President, my colleague said the government wanted to cover up this whole case. That's not true. And my colleague must have heard a lot of times that the prime minister here said that the whole case would be left to the judiciary and that the judiciary would react depending on the findings. That's what happened today. Therefore, you yourself are aware that no one wanted to cover anything up. This presentation of yours shows that you only want politics and that you want to show how it is, and later you said that Mr. Vukelic, who is a HDZ member, is as bad as all the other HDZs. And you based it all on one statement that may not have been exactly transmitted as you have now passed on. I'm sorry to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85014	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85015	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The colleague persistently repeats what should no longer be repeated because from the current course of discussion and positions and opposition it is true that the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Minister both as a member of the Government and as chairman of the Supervisory Board have indeed done what needs to be done and has rushed the maximum speed of all relevant bodies in the country to deal with what they are founded for. Therefore, additional cream on cake with state secretaries who have joined HDZ confirms this. In fact, we are certainly more responsible as members of some of the parties than those who are not members of any party, which strengthens our responsibility and that we do and act by law and regulation. We therefore thank the minister who has accelerated all those things that concern all shipyards and I believe we will continue in the second term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85016	Replica is the respected deputy president of Mato Arlovic's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85017	Thank you very much, dear colleague vice president. So look, Brodosplit is a society of special interest or interest to the Republic of Croatia. If we protect society interests from the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this way, then the question is actually how can we even protect the interests of all other companies and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. I am seriously asking the question when the trusted work has already been carried out by the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, I am asking here the President of the Privatisation Fund of the Republic of Croatia whether to initiate the procedure through the Brodosplit Chamber of Commerce that this assembly is called upon to protect the injured interests of owners, business and other interests of the Brodosplit company on the one hand. On the other hand, if it determines damages as announced by the State's Attorney's Office that they have taken place whether they will initiate in accordance with Article 273a. claim for damages. That's number one. And number two, will immediately, as the first of the measures, initiate the procedure for the resolution of the president and members of the Supervisory Board who, in accordance with the Company Act, failed to carry out a entrusted business in the interests of this company and in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and protected the interests of the company's business and ownership interests against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we must not forget that, in addition to all these actions spoken by the State Attorney's Office and we can read the newspapers at the same time and we have information about how individuals in society and outside society received additional fees and commissions at the time when the company was under recovery, or rather not being recovered from the state, but were constantly receiving additional support to do business at all, so that it would not go into bankruptcy and would not be under bankruptcy. That is why I feel quite serious about how the request for a trust issue will be or mistrusts pass. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The question arises how will we protect our interests the interests of society, of interest to the Republic of Croatia because it is a protection on behalf of all citizens of this country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85018	The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman. Here you go. The word has been respected, so you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85019	Well, I did, I was lifting in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85020	Replication response. And let's take a look at each other and then let me see.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85021	I've held her for a long time. You were watching me, so I thought you noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85022	Let's take a look at each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85023	Here, fellow colleague, I just wanted to say that exactly what he said and now he's asking whether the Supervisory Board will discuss the responsibility and the whole situation that's going on. I believe that actually the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Vukelic, should have called such a session a long time ago which, given that this tape has been going on for almost a year. Therefore, there was enough warning that it was the wrong decisions, the decisions to be done. Therefore, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Vukelic should have called such a session long ago, and not now, at once, here the government remembered, so at the telephone session, it replaced people who had already been investigated in the past that there were serious doubts about their mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85024	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85025	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the term of government of Ivo Sanader, Mr Branko Vukelic, will remain two things remembered after the term of office expires. One of the impressive results of the Croatian economy has significantly changed its position down from which the most impressive leap from 55th to 109th place by economic freedom, and at least now we know which direction this government has set Croatia in. And the other thing that Mr. Vukelic will be remembered for is that the chairman of the Watch Committee "Brodosplita" is, in a strange way, missing six million dollars. Of course, in the best manner of pushing the head into the sand, the minister has nothing to do with saying that he feels no responsibility and that nothing as chairman of the Supervisory Board could do because he does not follow the daily course of work at the shipyard. Six million dollars is about 24 million kuna. If the average salary there is about 6 thousand kuna, it's a salary for 4 thousand employees. And now somebody tell me that it's possible for someone to disappear their monthly salary for four thousand people, and he says he's not messing with the company's daily business. That wouldn't be weird if the post of supervisory board, and especially his president, wasn't overseeing the work of the company's administration. Even if he hadn't, he wouldn't be on the board of directors of the "Brodosplita" he would still be guilty because he was acting in government responsible for the functioning of state-owned economic operators and put people in those positions who allowed it. The company law clearly provides for the obligation to monitor the activities of the company's administration in particular in more important and larger decisions which may have consequences for business and also in solidarity with responsibility, which states that the Supervisory Board is also responsible for the adverse decisions of the administration and that it corresponds in solidarity. Let me remind you of articles 250, 263, 272 and 273 of that law. By the way, I would like to remind the Supervisory Board, except for Minister Vukelic, Sinisa Poljak, also the HDZ secretary in charge of financing a party that was removed overnight from the party and from the Supervisory Board "Brodosplita" but remained in the supervisory board of "Sentor and Connection", which also recently revealed some kind of money paving and, in that supervisory board, Ante Sanader, mayor and husband of the person who found 68 thousand EUR in the parking lot, calmly put them in the trunk and went for coffee. The first time the chairman of the Supervisory Board "Brodosplita" had to react and investigate the matter further was at a session on 21 July 2005, which raised doubts about disputed contracts and expressed the unusuality of the procedure under which the contracts were signed. Instead, the vote is that everything's okay and we're moving on. The second time the Supervisory Board was obliged to do something is the time when it was found out there was an Austrian request even though the request went to the police. The supervisory board's job is to control business events and should be more professional in investigating the problem than the police because it is his job to deal with business problems every day. The third moment was already earlier, already mentioned a situation in which Minister Vukelic said he was not considered guilty or responsible for what was happening in "Brodosplit" because he does not follow the daily course of work. How is the post of the Supervisory Board to oversee the work of the company and when such a major crime occurs and during its supervision, responsibility simply must exist. In this case, there are several forms and ways of responsibility. One is a legal liability because they have been warned of potential crime and have not responded. The second is responsibility with the administration because they agreed that some action was fine despite the fact that it proved illegal. Furthermore, there is a moral and ethical responsibility because they have provided something like this with their action or lack of action. And the last political responsibility because it all happened while Mr. Vukelic was head of the supervisory board. Since laws have been selectively applied to the morale of individuals, Cardinal Bozanic has also given up speaking and we consider political responsibility only by the eccentric behaviour of some foreign politicians so that Mr Vukelic has not been fired because of the "Brodosplita" but he should certainly have received it or should have received it because of such a statement and because of his perception of the role of the chairman of the Supervisory Board. Yesterday, we were discussing a state audit report, so I'd just like to remind you of what I said this morning. Without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, services worth more than 2 million kuna were obtained for the Ministry. The County paid interest subsidies on corporate loans amounting to 23 million kuna, almost 8 million kunas more than the amounts shown in the county report. The question arises where the eight million were allegedly paid and the county showed that they were paid about 15 million. State support and incentives are planned to amount to around 640 million kuna. The Ministry of Support has provided resources to users without the means of ensuring return in the event of non-intentional spending and a non-action plan harmonising the planned funds with the rights of users of support and establishing measures for non-intentional use cases. Over 6 audit orders from the previous year have also not been processed. However, Mr Hebrang said this morning that Mr Vukelic is an extremely good minister. But to recapitalize the events related to “Brodosplit. ” First, it was claimed that the Brodosplit case did not exist at all and there was no money laundering. Police involved in Austria afterwards. Then came the publication of the minutes from the session of the Watch Committee "Brodosplita" which clearly shows that Mr. Vukelić knew about the suspicious payments and that he did not react at all. After the minutes were published, no one is saying that money laundering was gone but the panel is turning around and it is claimed that Branko Vukelić is not responsible for anything because he did not know what was going on even though he was the chairman of a monitoring board whose function I am re-supervising the operation of the shipyard and he defends himself that he cannot know the day-to-day business in the shipyard. So it turns out that the whole dust rose around the cash amount at the level of the daily turnover of capital. According to Vukelic, $6 million belongs to a day-to-day business with which the supervisory board has nothing to do with it. The Parliament has shown undivided support for Croatia's entry into the European Union, so this is about our wish to remind you of the behavior that is common in this Europe in which we strive. Some may recall the “profit” affair of British War Minister Jon Profium’s spy and sexual scandal with a 1963 prostitute, Cristina Killer. At the time, he was suspected of jeopardizing national security. Although the investigation showed that there was no leak of information, Profiumo resigned because of the lack of a relationship, and soon the entire government of then Prime Minister McMilan fell. Swedish Prime Minister Mona Sahlin had to do it in '95. the year under public pressure to resign because she paid diapers and several chocolates with her official card even though she later compensated for the costs. And Vukelic disappears six million dollars and then someone still wonders if he's responsible? When we look at things that way, it's a miracle that Croatia even registers any growth rates. But with a little more government effort, I'm sure it can come down to nothing, too. Are we ready in European style and manner or are we still holding the fig tree in our pocket by sticking to those famous Royce sayings “who put up the pit, ” so that we can make sure that until we enter Europe. Honestly, but probably naively and naively, I hope we're all for Europe with all our hearts. If that's the case, then there's no room for ministers like Mr. Branko Vukelic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85026	Thank you. The word has Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85027	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors and Gentlemen. Here are a few sentences, given that there are also a series of incorrect information and evaluations. First of all, when it comes to what Minister Vukelic will remember and this government, I think the results of the economics are to be read, to read whoever wants to read it, and to the indicators of international institutions, as well as statistics on our domestics. So it can really be said that this government will remain in the memory that out of all about ten zones we today have in the construction of 284 zones in which this government has invested over 320 million kunas of free funds to cities, municipalities and counties in these three years. It is also true that in these three years, over 200 million kuna has been allocated to grants to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also true that it will be remembered that at this time and this time, both this minister and this government have achieved credit potential in the business potential of 5 billion kuna with interest rates of 2 to 4%, the most favourable interest ever for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. There will also be a fact that in three years of activity, we are entrepreneurial from the fact that in 2003 every 30 working man in Croatia was reported by one who moved into entrepreneurship that today we have one new entrepreneur on every 12 working men. This is the “that” index Mr Hebrang spoke of, and we have thus settled in the rank of the lower half of the countries that are being monitored by entrepreneurial activity. For the first time and for that, it will remain a fact last year that entrepreneurs entered the world of entrepreneurship not because of force because they have no vision of how to come to work differently but because of the chance and opportunity, and this opportunity has created this ministry which led me and the other ministries, that is, this government. Also, the fact that I will remain remembered for it from a cluster that was in 2003, and that is why we have a semi-class of over 20 clusters in Croatia today that are being organised, trying to be as competitive and to survive on the market. And I will also probably remain remembered that I have also launched an export offensive and that we have firmly defined ourselves with a number of concrete measures that will be implemented in the coming years have turned towards Croatian production, strengthening industrial production and moving from that trend that we have had all past years of imports, imports and imports towards our domestic producer and companies that are in that production. Yes, and a number of other things will remain written among other things and that I was the Minister who was the longest in that place and had not been changed three, four times as much as you changed economy ministers in your time. But I won't keep counting. There's a lot to be said for. But when you mention it, then some way down the path of the economy should be told facts that clearly state what and how it was done. I will not talk about the gasification of Croatia that has been launched, about the modernisation of refineries that have not been throughout the past term of your government, etc. It's all in the Ministry of Economy's portfolio, and all of these are very clear facts and indicators of what has been done, how many kilometers of gas pipelines, how many, what has been done with the modernisation of the refinery, etc. But I'm going back to the subject that is subject to this debate today, and I want to make it quite clear once again because it's important to say not to say anything about the possible I'm still talking about the examination procedures, the investigative procedures that point to the illegality that we are certainly against, I believe all of us here believe, and say one thing that is also the result of this government's work and the change in the trend of bargaining we've heard from both Mr. Cain and the other MPs here, that some positive trends of shipbuilding generally happened, more quality contracts, to raise productivity, not to be late with the ships. This is confirmed not only by the profession now, knowledge of our Croatian, Croatian shipbuilding, Institute of Shipships, Colleges but also by consultants who work and help us design the programs and structure of shipbuilding that are both for “Brodosplit” and “3. May’ determine the positive shifts. When we look at business about what is between the productivity and the rationality of this business, what should be taken care of and the supervisory board. But what I also want to say is not clear to me why exactly the SDP ranks the biggest attack on the SDP government's former, supervisory board and former management at "Brodosplit". Because there's always talk of harmful contracts. And what you've written, I've made an effort, so I've taken out a statement from the State's Attorney's Office's website for the former administration, so it's been charged with harmful contracts. And the current administration is being affected by the use of position and authority to expose and wrong specifications, the consumers made to benefit. So you're always saying that the Supervisory Board should have seen harmful contracts. Yeah. At least $36m was passed by the supervisory board, but the economy minister who was then in the SDP government and the government had to see all the harmful contracts. It says, because of harmful contracts, they're justifiable suspicions of harmful contracts. This is about manipulation in another case that needs to be condemned, but you'll allow it to fake accounts, fictitious accounts of money laundering that it's something that can't be traced, supervised by the supervisory board of invoices that comes out and enters the shipyard. This is in the domain of business and company conduct clearly by the Company Act and the defined obligation of the company's administration and their responsibility, the truthfulness of the data they present. But harmful contracts once again, I repeat, for the period until 2003, at least $36 million. And I'm asking you where is that responsibility of that supervisory board, that Ministry of Economy that was then, that government that vouched. And harmful contracts, which means harmful, that a contract worth $40 million was made, was contracted at the start of $25 million. So it's not like someone in the shipyard wanted to bail on some contract of good for the shipyard, but at first someone damaged the Croatian state, the Croatian citizens at the start of at least $36 million. So, I think we're chasing pots a little bit, and I think we're directing a story where it's not. Clearly wanting to cover up what was going on before, what can't happen now is that quality contracts and far different in all shipyards have been signed since now this government and since this guidance to all shipyards is a day. And whether someone in business will work illegally or not will allow it cannot, can not follow and reveal the minister of the economy and sit in 5 shipyards of Croatian and watch which and what business arrangement is being conducted, where, where, in which place. I think that, at least I can't. And if you have such special forces, well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85028	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85029	Thank you very much. Here, I'll correct two allegations. Mr. Minister mentioned the government's success and its ministry, so he mentioned, among other things, the modernisation of the refineries. The result of this modernization is air pollution in Sisak, which we have recently discussed here and here, and I must say that Rijeka is not far from here either. And the other thing he said was that he wanted to cover himself up with this debate today, what was happening at the Split Shipyard before. If anything wanted to hide this kind of interpretation, it wouldn't have started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85030	I'm correcting Mr. Minister's imprecise that the former government, the former ministry, has done nothing against the administration. Well, Mr. Vukelic, the criminal report went from the former ministry to the former supervisory board. Based on that... I'm sorry, the criminal report went from the former supervisory board to the former ministry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Based on that warrant the police were doing. Police finished their work at the 10th month of 2003. So they did their job and replaced that administration. And just as far as the questions are concerned, sir... It's a police report we've known in the last few months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that minister who should have... Take care of yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we'll see what else is going to happen. Therefore, do not falsely and incorrectly say that the former government and the former supervisory board have not done their job. Thanks to that criminal report we have this...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85031	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85032	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is just time to say how much impelation was missed, how much it was made for election purposes, how much it really wants to put one bad or one shadow on the work of the Croatian Government, on the work of the Croatian Minister of Economy. In fact, I'm just going to say the most important things, and the fact is that the county state's attorney's office has also done their job, and the municipal state's attorney's office has done its job confirms the faith of the very institutions of the system that must and do their hard work. The most important are the positive shifts from mid-2005 to today in terms of shipyards, especially the Split Shipyards. In addition to the "Vessels" contract for 4 new constructions in this period, the shipyard signed contracts with two other shipowners and the Tanker sailing from Zadar with 2 ships and with Stan for 4 ships. The contract, the total amount of contracted ships, is $537 million. The signing of new contracts, as such contracts were signed, and the supervisory board did not fully strengthen the shipyard by increasing contract prices, provided 80 million US dollars. Thus, the supervisory boards and administrations did not, as predecessors, cause any damage but brought greater benefits to the thorough, dedicated work and analysis. In addition to all contracts, and for the first time, a safeguard clause has been installed in case of an increase in steel prices, part of the price is in euro, part in dollars, and this is an important improved way of financing compared to before. Physical indicators also say that unlike last time, I am only saying this from the past for comparisons as well as good, excellent and professional work of the current Croatian government and our economy minister. Unlike last time, additional damage was caused by paying enormous amounts of foam. And since March 2006, there has been no more payment of the foam on any new construction. And one new construction was submitted almost within a record time limit, 82 days before the agreed deadline and the shipyard also received a bonus from the shipowners for the temporary delivery. In this year's trend continues and it is today, these days it is the handover of a new construction, it has already been 37 days before the agreed time. According to reports from auditors and consultants hired by the Croatian Shipbuilding Committee in Brodosplit, there are positive trends in all segments. And it's clear he's starting a recovery. I believe that we will not stop at this, because not only does this mean employment which is never enough in our county, it is also said about the development of Croatian shipbuilding and Croatian shipbuilding. It also developed a restructuring programme in mid-2005 and immediately started with its realization. In accordance with the consultant team's report, implementation takes place according to plan. But there is another point to point out what it is just saying about a modern approach, about one economic activity, one of the particular activities of our economy minister, which is exactly a program to encourage development of entrepreneurial areas in our county, and it could thus show in other counties. But when it is known that entrepreneurship zones have started to develop on islands and in the hinterland, in Dalmatia, not only in the coast, we are talking about the uniform development of the Split-Dalmatia County, and I believe that this is how the development of the entire Croatian state is even. Of course, the effects of investment on the opening of new jobs are the most numerous, largest and I believe that we will not stop at it, and how in the business zone Dicmo works 292 employees, famous Dugapolje 1150, Muć 289, Nerežišće on the island of Brac 174, Selca on Brac 28, Supetar 88, Starigrad... on the island of Hvat 16, the entrepreneurial zone Kosor and Vrlika 20. A total of 2100, and employment plans were planned after the construction of the 6.5 thousand zone. A number of other indicators are discussed especially when talking about what investments are made by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. And in 2004. 4 million and 300, 2005. 6 million and 200, 2006. 3 and 800, a total of 14 million where each kuna fertilises in a way that increases the number of employees, increases income in Split-Dalmatia County, and thanks to just one vision of the Minister of Economy and the Croatian Government, which we must not interfere with, nor to political considerations, but to support and encourage that we can only move on. I believe that this is one time that in the second term we should thoroughly restructure Croatian shipyards and tell how much we need it, how much money we need from the state budget to invest not only for the protection of a particular job but also for the development of the economy, and how much we want to invest in science, in people, because that is the only way we can stop the demographic trend from all over Croatia, but also develop what we have most, and these are people. That is why it is for every thanks that every body in the state works for what is prescribed by law, and in this case I believe that not only the county state attorney's office and the municipal state's attorney's office, but also the court will take the path that we all wish for, quickly and effectively, the Croatian judiciary to create clear security and preconditions for the development of peaceful and stable development and throughout life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85033	Replica, the esteemed MP Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85034	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here I agree entirely with what the esteemed representative of Peronja said. This is an entirely missed project, a missed interpretation for a number of reasons. It is clear after a series of discussions, even with the failures of individual members of the administration, it is more than clear that Minister Vukelić was doing his job correctly and legally. Unfortunately, as soldiers say, when you shoot blanks, there are no effects, without arguments, without precision, everything and everything was discussed, and at least what is important, equally important for all of us about the technological lagging of Croatian shipyards, the problems of long-term business, the sliding steel scales, the conclusion of contracts that require currency risks. Unfortunately, too little has been discussed about what is very important, increasing flexibility in the business of Croatian shipyards, how to increase the quality of management, whether the value of Croatian shipyards is primarily in workers but designers and engineers, management. There was no talk of increasing management responsibility and quality of innovation, creativity, anything that could contribute to increasing the competitiveness of Croatian shipyards. It seems to me that this debate in Parliament today was another form of abuse of this important institution that must have great benefits and importance for the long-term development of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85035	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85036	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This seven-point party pamphlet has indeed been exposed today unargumented and ridiculous and unsuspecting and by fellow Hebrang who has spoken on behalf of the club so far, I think more clearly. I will therefore highlight another aspect which also concerns me, which is, I thought, that such times have passed, and these are the proposals for the conclusions that this Croatian Parliament should accept and vote on. I'll read it in a short version. The first point is that the Croatian Parliament concludes that the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic, has illegally performed his duties as chairman of the Split Shipyard Supervisory Board. The second point, the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all other state bodies will provide the USKOK with urgent information regarding the conclusion of these contracts. I'm paying attention to the order of the proposal's conclusions. First, he's guilty, so the verdict. And secondly, pass it on to Hop to prove something. I really thought that those times behind us, obviously party old habits, were hard to give up. And I think there's been a little bit of a talk about this today. That's why I'm stressing it, and I'm skipping the other one. I absolutely support all the investigative actions of the state's attorney, police and all, of any doubt in any company, certainly also here in the Split Shipyard. But as more politics is said here than facts, I will also draw attention to a few things about the inconsistency of the SDP that raises about 4 million kunas that are under certain suspicion and some are, not some, let them investigate. But why not mention not at any time 4, but 36 million kunas also under certain suspicion from the former administration, and why not mention not 4 but 140 million kuna of "Vicor Lance"? Well, I think a million dollars says sorry, you're right, millions of dollars. See, so I'm glad that as soon as they found out about certain doubts, they went public with this 4 million kuna, but they'd also be glad to be around these 36 million kunas and about these 140 million dollars, etc. Then we could talk about consistency because I don't think we're in the best interest of having our and your dubious and possibly thieves, etc. I don't think that's right. As far as I'm concerned, and I believe my party will never accept the verdict before, so prove it even if it came from the party. Another inconsistency when it comes to the state's attorney's position. I don't mean the inconsistencies of the State's Attorney's Office and its views, but the inconsistencies of the SDP. When the state's attorney's office told you about my colleague Ingrid, it was fine, we all agreed. And I agree and now it's okay, it's okay. When it was the case with Mr. Zuzul and Imostroy, the State's Attorney's Office said the same thing was fine, but until today, many of us are wrong, and today we're going back to it. When it comes to today's case where the State's Attorney's Office doesn't launch investigations against Mr. Vukelic, you've been saying he's guilty all day. So we have double, triple standards and it's not good, and it stretches and when Mr. Hebrang was being treated outside, nothing was wrong, now that Mr. Racan is being treated out there everything is fine. It doesn't honor anyone for any representative, no foreigner. I think we should have the same archimetres and we're up for it, and I repeat all the controversial actions to be investigated, and here, several times, harmful contracts, alerted, etc. Who proved to be harmful contracts? Who proved that he was warned there were better offers? And the waist kept saying there were no better offers, but today ten times the word was warned there were better offers. So, based on the wrong settings, it's politicized and it wants to accuse the Minister and the Government and HDZ and I think that today you've had one missed topic and I hope it won't come to your mind soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85037	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85038	Well, I must now repeat and correct the incorrect allegations that have been repeatedly repeated here by my colleagues from HDZ, which is that the former government, the former ministry, former supervisory committees have done nothing to launch an investigation into irregularities. Several times you have been repeated here, and that is the fact that the former ministry and former supervisory committees have made a request to launch an investigation, that the investigation ended in the 10th month of 2003. My colleagues and colleagues, have you forgotten that you took power in the 11th month of 2003, and it seems that this government only after 3 years realizes that it is in power. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85039	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85040	... And someone shut me out. [[Specially enabled.]] So, to repeat, my colleague mentioned the disappearance of about $140 million in Victor Lentz. Namely, the parliamentary investigative committee established at your party's request found nothing illegal in the government's conduct, and the position of your party's members was to put a key in the lock of "Lance" and a thousand and 500 workers and co-operatives as well as their families left without income and on the road, I guess because they were guilty because they were working in a company run by SDP's. So much for your social sensitivity. As for the findings of the commission and the proposed evidence, the State Attorney's Office examined the documents and concluded that there were no elements for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, so it was not even launched. Therefore,... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85041	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85042	Says a colleague when he compares some cases, so he mentions to me that in the same case the State's Attorney's office said that it wasn't my fault. I could warn you that the State Attorney's Office has examined the legality of the conduct of all those who have prepared certain materials and has established, therefore, that the first advisor who has worked on a specific subject that such behaviour, i.e. the work has been legitimate sir, is legitimate, and here is a very different situation. This is the State's Attorney's Office, against certain individuals, in the wake of a certain suspicion. Well, well, I'm not talking about Wolfellic now, but I'm talking about other people, but I'm telling you these people in sequence. So they all acted legally. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85043	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85044	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There was once a government. I'm saying she was because I believe for the sake of all of us she's on her way out, regardless of the power of positive opinion, because only a positive opinion unfortunately won't be enough. It also takes positive action, and it obviously wasn't enough. And this government of ours decides to reduce the number of ministries due to the rationalization of savings, but then multiply the state secretaries. This same ambitious government decides to launch Croatia with Minister of Economy Vukelic, so now we have 300,000 unemployed, 11... Guys, if you don't want to listen, come out, but let the rest of us who want to talk to you talk to you. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] This morning we heard that he and such a minister were actually the best minister in the government, and I guess that's why he became the chairman of the Supervisory Board at Brodosplit. It's the same president of the economy that I asked what he thought about the fate of the County Sugarcan, which is extremely important for the fate of the county economy, and Mr. Minister was amazed that what he had to do with it, when he was being touched by a sugar man in the portfolio of his fellow minister. And so the minister lives on astonishingly and to the warning of counterpart Jurjevic who asked the question and the prime minister what is happening in Brodosplit, he does not react. And I remember as if yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister with his hand in his pocket in deep indignity refused at all the very thought that there might be something irregular in that "Brodosplit". And mention Mr. Jurjevic's family by the way, which, by the very fact that he is not alive, can neither be responsible nor guilty for anything today. Mr. Vukelic also said that his colleague Jurjevic and counterpart Opacic are talking nonsense because the contract is not good, the contract is great and there is nothing controversial. He was born with the knowledge of the minister, with his blessing. But there's one tiny problem. You cannot control international institutions. You can't ban international investigations, and then when it was found that something was wrong, that a colleague said this morning, 6 million dollars was blacked out. So when our institutions reacted, we get another story. It seems like it's not all right, but the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, the resolution minister, is not responsible. Because you know, he can't read everything and follow everything because of his busyness. I believe so, too. The minister can't at a time when he buys councilmen and employs those 7 to 10 thousand workers, reads all documents related to "Brodosplit" and takes care of contracts. And now imagine. We can choose whether our minister is simply incompetent and irresponsible or not, God forbid, and something much worse. It's a sad doubt. In both cases, the minister obviously did not deserve the place he was in. And we're not talking about the guilt here that you colleagues are trying to impose rather than the responsibility. If Mr. Vukelic had not been chairman of the Supervisory Board as economy minister, he would have been responsible for what is happening in the shipyard and for the damage that has been done. And today we spend half the day on making arrangements whether or not the damage has been done at all? Gentlemen, the minister is laughing. Apparently, six million dollars isn't much money to him. But for those who live on their salaries and work, it is. And they have the right to know where that money is, what's going on with it? Mr. Minister, what you're laughing at means, maybe you have a sense of humor, but it means maybe it doesn't matter to you because of the situation we've all been in together. Which is not the least pleasant and embarrassing between us and the international public, among those whom we would like to be. And we're in no condition to act accordingly. I don't want the current misses to justify themselves to an ex. Your colleague Sobol reminded you that you took power at the 11th month of 2003. And from that moment on, you're responsible for everything that's going on in the country. Obviously, it means nothing to you that my colleague Leko was reading the Constitution of this country, where it is nice to say that each minister is therefore also responsible for what is happening in his respective ministry. Or there are exceptions. As most laws apply selectively, you may do so with the Constitution, which does not mean that it is okay. And if the minister is responsible, he should act like one. And even if he didn't know. If he really knew absolutely nothing, he was responsible for it. And if he knew and didn't do anything to stop it or fix it again, he's responsible. We don't really have a chance if we want to act in principle when the minister himself is unable to resign if we have a government that, or a prime minister, would resolve it. And replaced. This House won't do it either, because for God's sake, the minister is ours. So that we can no matter what it does, we can let it get rid of it, shifts. It would be a weakness for you. In fact, it would be evidence of strength because no one is sinless, it could happen to anyone, but in that case it would have to be ready and bear responsibility. It should be ready for both the prime minister and the entire government and each minister in person. No matter who makes the government, which most of them. The one that's today, some future or ex. We've had enough gentlemen to pronounce our former failures, and we justify our iniquities by doing so. Or worse, your mistakes. It's time for something to change. If that does not happen, you will be changed in wonder, for the people are no longer as naive as they may seem to you. Don't forget so quickly and still can add up two and two. Mr. Minister, I'd be happier if we didn't have to discuss this issue today, not about you, about any of our ministers, but we didn't have a choice. In fact, we are not allowed to shut up like this, and regardless of what the result of the vote will be, our conscience will be clear because we spoke in time and when we should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85045	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85046	Here, it worked. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear representative Brdarić listed these ten false allegations, so allow me to correct only one. He says the minister didn't deserve the place he was in. Well, of course that's not true, Mrs. Brdaric. Mr. Vukelic has shown by his work so far and by his pledge that he has earned the honour of acting as Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm very sorry that here you are, in those ten allegations of truth, you have cited the wrong words and facts, and here I have no opportunity to correct them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85047	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85048	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mr. Minister! So it could almost be asked whether there is a legal system and the political system of the Republic of Croatia, the responsibility of politicians for the resolutions in which they operate. That's what I'd say. This is an opportunity to step up in Croatia in matters of politicians' responsibilities for jobs they have gained confidence in. So, to make a step in the democratic standard of jobs that are responsible for the Croatian Parliament's decision. That this responsibility is important and that it is regulated should indeed be cited in the provision of Article 114. The Constitution. So, the government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The president and members of the government are jointly responsible for the government's decisions and are personally responsible for their work, according to members of the government. The area of work of Minister Vukelic is an economy and Minister Vukelic has become a member of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board on two basis. Because the resolution minister is responsible for the area and because the shipyard is owned by the Republic of Croatia, the owner sent it to keep the interests of the Republic of Croatia in that company, to control with two aspects, how it is done with the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and as a minister how it is legally handled there. And it is not disputed between us, even the minister does not dispute that the supervisory board was in a position to discuss the contracts that are in question and to approve them. So not only did he have and was obliged to control his legality but he did. He approved contracts that were reasonably suspected by Interpol but look at miracles today, suspicions and the State's Attorney's office, so he's asking for an investigation to be launched. Isn't there a so-called so-called Croatia? objective responsibilities? Is there no responsibility in Croatia objectively for the gaps in the vault at the head that stands? Are we going to be back in the 1990s, or are we going to build democratic standards and seek the responsibility of those in whose portfolio things are happening that Croatia even asks Interpol how this happens? I think it is unquestionably our task to tell the citizens of the Republic that we are changing the board, raising the scale and seeking increased responsibility, not to hide how the government used to do what it did in the 1990s or two thousand years doing what it did. In such discussions, we send citizens a message when one can. I don't see that progress. It is our job to address citizens and to say that we will ensure legality in every way. And one more thing. Brodosplit is a company of interest to the Republic of Croatia as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by the decision of this Parliament. On that basis, the minister went to the board of directors. So, we decided that our concern for the state-owned company and legality was run by the minister and he said that he couldn't and could not exactly repeat it several times, and at the same time in the material it says he approved the contract. Well, that just doesn't make sense. Either he approved the contracts or he didn't approve the contracts. But whatever it is, we're not here to discuss the Secretary's shift from the board of directors. We are discussing the responsibility of the Minister for the area for which he is responsible in this House. If such responsibilities do not exist in Croatia at all, then we do not have the legal basis to discuss. But since the Constitution finds that such a responsibility exists, we are therefore entrusted with this responsibility and I think that all the debate on it should conclude that the minister is responsible no matter who took the money and how guilty he is. His responsibility is in position, not as much as he put his hands in the jam. Therefore, there is no debate whether he wanted to take it, he did not want to take it, but his responsibility as Minister was officially and as a member or chairman of the Supervisory Board plus his responsibility because he approved such contracts. I think the citizens know what this is about and that there is no movement in changing the relationship between Croatian politicians towards Croatian laws and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85049	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85050	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative Leko here in his presentation also cited a number of incorrect allegations but he ended up, and I want to correct it, with the following "The Minister is responsible for the position.". So please. Well, that's an inaccuracies all the way. The minister is responsible for the situation if he or someone else does something that has credible data and the fact that certain actions can be taken by certain authorities on this basis. In this case, there is no such thing as Mr. Vukelic. These are your arbitrary opinions and your suggestions that here we are today discussing and losing the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85051	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you gentlemen of the HDZ have put a lot of effort today to convince us that Mr. Vukelic knew nothing and didn't steal anything. You convinced me. But you also convinced me that Mr. Vukelic should not trust the two sheep drawn to guard them because he will lose one and the other will steal it from him. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85053	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow representative was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 213 and I think he also injured all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and all ministers in the current government and former ministers. I mean, the future. I think this is really incorrect to say for one minister to lose two sheep drawn on paper. Thank you very much. And if it's from Mr. Kapraljevic, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85055	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85056	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would once again draw attention to what the topic of the debate is today. The topic of discussion is the initiative and the SDP Representatives' Club proposal, which clearly states that it is necessary to discuss the illegal exercise of the duties of the chairman of the Supervisory Board, "Brodosplit". After all today's debate, I think it's unequivocal and it's clear to all of us, and this comes from the state's attorney's obvious that there was no illegal action by the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board in "Brodosplit". Your accusations do not stand and your suspicions that nothing has been done because the moment there were doubts about certain malfeasance and the illegality of business, things were in motion and the involvement of the State's Attorney's Office and the investigation that the State's Attorney's Office carried out. The investigation was published yesterday and clearly shows that malfeasances have been made from individual members of the administration and their responsibility for what they have done is not disputed and they will likely after the investigation has been completed and answered. But it is also not disputed that there is no illegal action by the chairman of the Supervisory Board and members of the Supervisory Board. And if you want to talk about political responsibility, if you want to talk about moral responsibility, then I wonder why none of you should mention it in one word all afternoon and not look back at what I read, talked about, debated in your previous statement before you. And this is how it is possible that the administration you have set damages to the state budget for EUR 36 million and today you are not asking a single question of the responsibility of the members of the board of directors or then presidents and members of the Supervisory Board. How is it possible that, under the cover of the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding from 2000, you do not look at the illegal seizure of property with one goal only to make it easier for someone else to have and sell it tomorrow? How we won't clean up in our backyard and discuss the moral, ethical and every other responsibility of those who knew about what was going on in Victor Lenco and did nothing about it. None of you this afternoon in an afternoon's debate to talk about it. And that is why there is really no argument to continue the debate and to discuss any responsibility of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Watch Committee of the "Brodosplit". What illegal acts? The State's Attorney's Office's report makes that clear. There is no illegal action by either the president or members of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board. During your discussions, something could be heard, and I too was imputed to argue differently that I was a member of the Parliament in the term of the coalition government. Simply from the words spoken, I was inclined to another political option. So let me just have one sentence. Yes, I am now in very good relations with the president of the HSS. I've been in correct relations with the president of HSS Mr. Tomcic. I'm a native peasant. I come from the village of Podrav, and I am extremely proud of that origin. I was never a member of any other political party except HDZ. I must tell you that I wrote to the HSS among other things something that they later published as a book on the life and work of a great resident of mine that I am proud of. And his name is Michael Pavlek-Mishkin. In prewar time, in a time before World War II, the greatest peasant, writer and poet. He wrote many, and a folk hero. And I'm extremely proud of him. And he wrote a lot of works. And I suggest you read all of his works. But I suggest you also read his work that he wrote in 1940, which the communist government did not want to admit was his authorial work. This work is called "Why a Croatian peasant cannot be a communist" and I invite you to read it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85057	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85058	Sir. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85059	Late. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85060	Mr. Vice-President, the vice-president of the Croatian Government has just consistently and incorrectly claimed that the State Attorney's Office has established or has not established the legality of the conduct of the Supervisory Board. This is not done by the State's Attorney's Office but determines whether there are criminal offences and criminal responsibilities. And I'm telling you that the conduct of the supervisory board led by Minister Vukelic is illegal because it approved past the warning contract which was worse than the second offer. It's the illegal conduct of the Board of Supervisors.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85061	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85062	So prompted by the reply given by Deputy Prime Minister Polancec and also by a replica from counterpart Kapraljevic, so here I will correct an incorrect quote by the Deputy Prime Minister. Namely, your entire speech, Vice President, is incorrect. Inaccurate in terms of how you approach this side. Namely, everything that's said is a lie. The whole story is designed to be a lie and it's all just a lie. What is true is that Minister Vukelic has done more for Croatian shipyards in these two years than any previous government since the Croatian state. That's it. And one more thing! I thought of a saying, and that's why Mr. Vice President of the government was wrong the way you answered. Namely, there is a Latin proverb that says “the pearls in front of the pigs. ” That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85063	Honorable representative Sobol. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85064	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government has said that by giving us a hand in what we parliamentary deputies should actually say that I do not know with what right he has as Vice-President of the Government. ... that in the afternoon part and not a single word, and how in no way did we refer to the illegalities that were in the process of resuscitating the shipyard by the former government. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if you'd been there all afternoon like some of us were then you'd have heard that we looked back on that and that and by making it concrete... they said that the insinuations were until then until you, as Deputy Prime Minister, took everything that your law requires you to proceed in the process of determining whether there were any illegalities. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Until you do, your amendment is over. For me, it will remain insinuation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85065	The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85066	Well, it's incorrect that he claimed, ha and passing into another generation because it's not even the subject of today's debate when Mr. Vice President Polancec spoke of Miskin, poet and folk hero, the folk hero of World War II anti-fascist and persecution. ... who persecuted him, for this street had Pavleka Miskin in Zadar, but since HDZ's rule down there she has been wiped out and such a street in Zadar no longer bears his name. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So much for persecution. And as for the progress of the economic that you've also been talking about, I'm going to give you an example that's not exactly what you're saying. ... Kibles were introduced in Croatian prisons. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85067	The Deputy Prime Minister didn't talk about it, about Zadar or the streets in Zadar. But good! The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's after a whole day's debate, it seems to me that we're still in big dilemmas, and how we wouldn't be in dilemmas after a little bit of a vice president, the Minister's class is confusing us. I really don't know how it was in the grave for Pavlek Mishkin. It's gonna be like he was turning around like he was having a bad time, but let's just leave it alone. So, we have a very clear position in front of us...../President: "Peace!" Here you go. This jamore all day in the assembly is actually talking about... Such serious subjects as today's interpretation. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And the same way we had a review review yesterday. So, instead of discussing what this act has made clear to us the Vice President of the Government of us... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85069	Please make the speech possible. Don't let anyone accidentally play with these microphones and just take it easy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85070	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the hour of the Deputy Prime Minister warns us that we need to discuss something else that isn't at all... /President: Please... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I allow someone not to be pleased with what I say. However, my 19976 votes voted for me give me the right to differ from my colleagues, unlike your nine colleagues, and something that you needed for your term. So, those 19976 votes give me the right and the obligation to speak in this Croatian Parliament and I want to behave so responsibly unlike Mr. Minister who here today in the Croatian Parliament has shown by his constant ironic smile that he actually believes that the Parliament corresponds to the minister, not Minister of Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, let me remind you, ministers are responsible for the Croatian Parliament and ministers have not voted in favour of the MPs, and MPs voted in favour of ministers. Unfortunately, I, too, am deeply sorry for this whole term of office! So, we were supposed to discuss today under this point. It was up to us to discuss the responsibility of the Minister of Economy who was also the chairman of the Supervisory Board and very often wanted to turn the debate on quite the opposite waters, so we have often heard here that there is a desire to question the illegality of someone's work. There was a desire here to impute someone as they intend to be tried in this courtroom. In this hall we have neither the right nor the authority nor the competence to question and determine whether someone's actions are illegal. But we have authority and it is our competence to discuss whether the minister is responsible for what he did. There are indisputable facts here. The indisputable facts are that the minister was the chairman of the Supervisory Board. The unquestionable fact is that the Supervisory Board oversees the conduct of the company. It's the letter of the law. In this monitoring of the monitoring obligations, the Supervisory Board may review and examine business books and documentation of the company, the register, securities and other matters. To this end, the Committee can benefit from individual members or experts, so even the ignorance of Mr. Minister can't be a valid reason for you because if you don't know, if you don't know, you could name experts. Your defense was that you were very busy and that you didn't have time to track what was going on in this Brodosplit because you were busy. You didn't even have time to read the materials, and as you said, you trusted the administration without reservation. Well, maybe it's logical that you trusted management unreservedly because the administration was set up for you by political criteria, not professional criteria, and who would trust if not their own. But who will to whom, but to their own. So the administration obviously deceived you, too. The management was required to conduct the business legally and to report it to you. However, when there are elements to suspect that something is wrong, and you had elements to suspect that something was not... The question was also asked in this Croatian Assembly in the current hour, so the parliamentary question, and then it was said that everything is fine and that there are no elements of anxiety. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] There were further warnings, however, and you did not then use the right and obligation set out in Article 250 to report to the Supervisory Board, among other things, on the viability of the company... the use of own capital, the course of business, the income and the state of the company, the businesses which could be of great importance to the viability of the business and the liquidity of the company, and the supervisory board may require the administration to report on other issues which are of importance as well... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They were your powers, but they were your obligations. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] However, Mr. Minister, you have not even been able to read this part of the Company Act which should have informed you of what would help you to carry out the task entrusted to you by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Assembly as the majority owner of this capital society. And now that you want to convince us, Mr. Minister, that you will remain in the memory of the Croatian public for a series of merits, that sounds good. But only if you had... and opinion polls showing that 43% of HDZ members do not believe you are leading, this government to lead the country in the right direction. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] And when we talk about public opinion in television and radio shows, they're even more devastating. So we had a case of dealing with two Adriatic women when as many as 85% of the citizens said they didn't believe the Deputy Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. And for that reason, don't be surprised, Mr. Minister, when tonight after "Open" as much as I've been informed, I don't know of a dozen or maybe thousands of votes, it turns out that 85% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia don't trust you. However, that public opinion, Mr. Minister, that public opinion... This public opinion, Mr. Minister, obviously has no effect on the awakening of your moral... [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] That is, the political responsibility is certainly coming to these elections and you will not be a minister in the next term. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85071	Okay. Tonight's "Open" show you've all heard. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85072	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Although in my previous correction, I said that everything that comes from the other side of this agenda is a lie. That's what we heard, and now that's exactly what Miss Lalic confirmed. But I will correct only two incorrect allegations. The first is that she got 19 thousand 900 and some votes, a few months ago in a debate when she got 15 thousand 900. Something strange is happening in the state of Croatia. I happen to have an election in front of me, election results... Commissions in 2003 elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Lalic, you've got a lot less and your party's number is out here. And another incorrect quote that I am correcting is Mrs. Lalic's claim that 43% of HDZ members do not trust their government. Here's what's simply on the line of what I said before, all that comes from this point is a lie. Even a lie is a fake.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85073	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar. Peace. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, you did, a little bit later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. No more corrections. And they're gone. No more. ... What do you mean? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, the weather hasn't even started yet. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85074	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary. I have a replica of my colleague and to contribute to the fact that the truth in this House is heard in a debate about Mr. Mild Mihovil Pavlek Miskina, that neither is she the authority that owned him, nor is this authority favoring the peasant. And don't be fooled by HDZ's power, which now shuts down the village and destroys the little peasant at the expense of the great entrepreneurs, and Mr. Vice President, you're the advocate of the big system. He won't be able to cross silently, and I think he'd make a smart move in the grave and turn around and not comment on these words of yours. Because believe me, our old men were smarter than us. That should teach us a lesson. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85075	Replica response, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85076	So I thank my colleague Kolara for the replica even though the backbone of my argument was not the man I am truly proud of, Pavlek Mishkin. But that Pavlek Mishkin really lives today... /The speech room is off./... as at that time, because this government, HDZ's government, is really destroying man. Gentlemen, you've lost a man from the center of political thinking. Every political decision that was made was not made for the sake of the general age of man, but in the service of capital, and Pavleka Miskina was for man. For a man he was and because of this they have no right, they really do not have the right in this way and thus mention Paulek the Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85077	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's gone. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85078	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I've been patiently listening to your statements for eight hours, I haven't disturbed you, and I would ask you to give me at least half that time that belongs to me, just five minutes. I promise my colleague Boras I won't lie and I promise the Deputy Prime Minister that I won't talk about communists or anti-communists, I will try to stick to the subject. And I'd say just a few words about the role of state and minister in developing the economy of a country. This role of a colleague and colleagues has changed greatly in the last 25 years, let me just have a few sentences. In the 1980s, it was believed that the market economy would solve everything on the market in the development of one economy. It was the '80s. It has been seen in the 1990s that everything is not going so great, that it is necessary for assistance from the economy, that additional organisations and 90s of the European Union and European countries are looking for a special exit in information technologies, to inform the economy. However, it was soon seen that neither the market economy nor the information technology can solve all the problems of the economy. Now we get to the point that we talked about today. At the beginning of this decade, the European Union has adopted the Lisbon Strategy. My colleagues and colleagues, why is he bringing her? It brings it to warn that Europe will continue to lag behind America and Japan if it does not make a big step, if the public sector and the economy do not put their heads together and work together to develop the economy. Under the economy, I mean the private majority, but also the one in the hands of the state, so heads together. It had never been necessary before for the minister to be such a professional person, so much responsible person and so much ethical person to do his job properly and to really experience the economic step that we have all been waiting for for for many long years. My colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the board of directors, there's nothing different about what I just said. And that's where they look for the ultimate professionals, the extremely responsible person and the most ethical person. Is it possible that the board of directors of Brodosplit could be guilty without the supervisory board having any guilt? I don't think so. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Tomljanovic wonders about my findings. I ask you colleagues and colleagues who choose, who appoints the administration of a company? Who set these people up? Are they set up by the Supervisory Board or by our constituency committee? Who's setting them up? I don't have any responsibilities. We've got a lot of responsibility if we put the administration in place, and that administration is doing what she did. There are only two solutions in one orderly state. If the board of directors didn't know what was going on, then it's probably a matter of intricacies. If he was working with the administration that did it, then he's a participant in this filth. In one case, the Supervisory Board must leave. In one case, he's going into custody, and in the other case he's going to the employment office. In custody or in... I'm... No, I repeat. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nowhere here has anyone been discussing who chose that administration. Why is that administration set up? Were they such professional people, ethical people that you trusted so they played you? Finally, I don't want to be too long, because the president has asked us to keep the presentations as short as possible. I disagree with what counterpart Kapraljevic said about Minister Vukelic, but let us be aware that most Croatian citizens feel the same way about all of us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85079	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85080	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr Doric claimed that someone had played the Supervisory Board, or Minister Vukelic. That's not true. No one's played anyone. If someone's a thief it'll determine the court. But Mr. Vukelic, as Minister of Economy, and this government, have done it again, more for Croatian shipbuilding than any previous government. We've heard the fact that we have better contracts, that we have final delivery before deadlines and that's the truth and that's the only truth. Everything else is a lie, finally everything is a lie that comes from your side today on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85081	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petričević, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85082	Mr. President, my colleague. Mr. Minister, it is not true that he has not shown his expertise and his responsibility. In the next I will read that he has also proven his expertise and responsibility for 280 entrepreneurial unemployment zones is the lowest in the last 15 years. Basic indicators of shipbuilding operations in 2003 17 ships, in 2004 25, 2005. 22, 2006. 28. It is only one part of what Mr. Minister has done as a responsible person within the Croatian government, and in everyone I hoped he would talk today about detention and prison, but at least from you when you speak as a parliamentary representative who needs to be in custody. This is not a courtroom, this is a fellow assembly, and still at least sometimes we make mistakes and we go a little far beyond the borders, so if you want tolerance and what you should say in this Croatian Assembly. I hope that still behind us this assembly will remain only a assembly and never a courtroom. God forbid it's happened again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85083	And the last representative by number, not by quality, is the respected Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85084	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I warn you, if you interrupt me, we'll be quiet for 10 minutes. So you know, and you're gonna sit tight 'cause I'm gonna do my 10 minutes of silence. If you do... Then I'll speak 5. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85085	Fair enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85086	Is it okay, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85087	Fair enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85088	So this is where the sheep were mentioned today, the peasants, the prisons, the detentions, every word there was. There was no place for those words here on either side. That has to be said. We have one topic here that I could talk about chronologically, I have here on three pages of a lot, I wouldn't really care about a pâté, but I'd have a lot to say. However, I think a lot is said and that we should not talk about it chronologically, that there are certain things to be warned about. Some people are in the investigation, some people are threatening custody. What if some people are detained and they talk? And what if this tip of ice is revealed to this, please, in this money laundering as it was called by the Austrian Interpol and what if Minister Vukelic is not guilty but is carrying out something that was his task, but he was doing it so that he would be guilty and what will happen then and I ask you how will you look Doric in the eyes, how will you look me in the eye? I'm asking you that. Mr. President, I would pray that they correct me of the wrong allegations... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85089	I'm ringing, you see me ringing. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85090	So what happens if Cat talks and says the money's gone, and it's 4 million and 700 thousand euros? What's it gonna say to that, then? Because this is all for the crazy one, it's for the crazy one to talk about what kind of smuts they have to be. Tonci Tadic is talking about what we should be today, and we're still in '68. No Rankovic, though. And now I'm asking you all to leave it to the smugglers, but the money's washed up. Where's the money? Whose accounts? Are we going to know that answer? Thank you very much. And let me say something else. Look, I don't have an illusion. I have no illusion. This is probably this money that was washed and left, it's hand-work in the smuggling, it's hand-work in the smuggling, and as it is here today, the handiwork has no illusion that Vukelic is going to take some of the consequences. Handicraft will determine that Vukelic stays on his side.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85091	Here, Mr. Representative kept his promise and time as far as it was concerned. It's 15 seconds before it's over. The final speech of the promoter, the respected representative Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85092	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers of Government, colleagues and colleagues. Why did the SDP club refer this request for mistrust to Minister Vukelic? The club sent this request for two reasons. One reason he referred this request is the nine-month conduct of the minister himself, for a full nine months, the inappropriate behaviour of Minister Vukelic, but also in the last six months, the inappropriate behaviour of the Croatian government, and particularly of President Sanader. In its public statements, the minister sends the citizens of Croatia all that has been done for the work of the Supervisory Board under disputed contracts is legal, clean, without any objections, although the minister knows that the State Attorney's Office is in charge of the investigation. 9 months deceives the Croatian public. He sends messages to deceive Croatian citizens. These are messages from Minister Vukelic. However, it estimates that management has made quality contracts and annexes in which annexes do not have any controversial actions. Those are the minister's claims. At the same time, at nine months, he does not call either meetings of the Supervisory Board or assesses the need to use the powers of the chairman of the Supervisory Board and, through internal oversight and audit, try to determine whether there are errors within the Board of Commerce's management. It is this inaction and public deception of Croatian citizens is given to the reason why the club has also proposed a debate in the Croatian Parliament. But no less mistakes were committed by the Croatian government either. The Croatian government is trying to say nothing we will not do because it is the work of the State's Attorney's Office. That's not true. The state's attorney's office determines criminal acts. The state's attorney's office is trying to run a criminal trial. The Croatian government should also implement a programme that we have brought about bribery and corruption, the fight against organised crime. The Croatian government should pay attention to its reputation in the world and be active. Actively and not passively in countering any crime and most organized crime. It was the work of the Croatian government. The Croatian government has not been active for 6 months on the example of Brodosplit. However, we will not talk about the prime minister's answers, about the Croatian government's answers. Just the latest request by Mr. Mary that the government try to determine whether the Split police tried to deceive and persecution institutions in Europe by organising agreements on how to behave we have no answer. We don't have an answer. Therefore, just like the minister's behaviour, the behaviour of the Croatian government is why the SDP club has made a request to talk and we are looking for a debate about distrusting Minister Vukelic. But what is the result of today’s debate? The result of today's debate is a big difference between us MPs. It's a really big difference. So we have representatives in the Croatian Parliament who care that international crime and money laundering are trying to fight in Croatia. That even the Parliament is not judging but actively setting up to fight international crime. We are disturbed by some in the Croatian Parliament that Interpol in Croatia is leading the investigation. Foreign law enforcement institutions are pushing crime into Croatia. And that is why we consider the Assembly to be actively involved. Part of you in the Parliament thinks international crime doesn't matter, we don't have to get involved in it, let's leave it to strangers. Yeah. That's what we're different about. We're still different. Some in the Croatian Parliament care about the reputation of the Croatian government rather than the accusations in Europe that the Croatian government is not doing enough, that it is not active enough in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against bribery and corruption. Some of us care about this image of the Croatian government. That it needs to be changed. Others in the Croatian Parliament do not care about the reputation of the Croatian government. They don't care what the reputation of the Croatian government will be. Of course. Some of us in the Croatian Parliament care that the strategy and programme against organised crime and corruption is not a letter on paper. That we don't care how he spends his time. We don't care what the citizens of Croatia think, we brought paper in the Parliament, so we don't care. To others, it doesn't matter. It is important to protect a party colleague regardless of what message we send to Croatian citizens. Yeah, that's what we're different about. In such discussions today, I could recognize the difference between Croatian representatives in this House. But it's another feature of today's debate. In defense of the minister, in defense of a party colleague today we wanted to, and we heard, send a message, all of you who dare to speak against the minister are criminals, you've been involved in crime, you're bandits, you have to answer politically. Therefore, your messages are very clear. Not wanting to argue, without finding excuses for your minister's failure, you point to your political opponents. Four years of your political action, four years of your government, to point your finger at your political opponents and call them names. I just need to make a point. Even when it comes from the MPs and it's acceptable. It's part of political conflicts, part of trying to talk in some way about our opinions. But when it comes from a government official, it's a little unusual. Vice-President Polancec, with his performances that there is no defence word for the minister today, has been trying to return the political debate on Victor Lenco. Gentlemen, gentlemen, the political debate on Victor Lenco was on two occasions in the Croatian Parliament. When we determined that political responsibility would be resolved by the Committee, the parliamentary commission was the first time and the second time a political debate was in the decision-making process of the commission's work. Yeah, we discussed it, we opened up a debate, a long-term debate. Do you remember the conclusions? It is the conclusions that speak, that everything is left to the State's Attorney's office and the State's Attorney's Office has sent a message without processing. Yes, gentlemen, we have opened the debate and we need to open a debate and no one is running away from these discussions. Therefore, we have had political debates but remember your conclusions. The commission's work is something that's a story that has both its conclusions and its decisions. Therefore, we can return it again, but it is a shame when the government's representative in defense of unhappiness, ignorance, the minister's irresponsibleness speaks of the political debates we have held. Why? So because he wants to say you have no right to speak of our work, you speak and answer for your time, our four years have no right to touch. It's the behavior of today's vice president. Yes, he mentions the Rijeka Bank, you mention the Rijeka Bank. ... Well, gentlemen, the Rijeka Bank and that's a message. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're also responsible for the Rijeka Bank. ... Well, yes, I agree, we answer 25 million euros more in the state budget. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree it's a responsibility. Stopped crises in the banking system, that's responsibility. Well, you see, it's called lying. But obviously we don't want to turn around to have court proceedings, to have the work of the State's Attorney's Office, we also have the work of the judicial authorities. No, we deceive the public because it's important to talk. Well, they're all your... as you see truly irresponsible, irresponsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I suggest you do, you have the opportunity to open up a new debate. Today Mr. Polancec wants to say how much he is responsible for shipbuilding and here we are dealing with the minister rather than shipbuilding talks about shipbuilding recovery. And you see, you're going to let me say something as proponents. In 2000, strikes, unexploited wages and non-payment of cooperatives were held in the shipbuilding industry. This was the situation found in 2000, found after the HDZ government. Shipyards were one of the main causes of the spread of indifference, workers did not receive salaries. And yes, the coalition government has adopted a resolution program. ... No, the program, and implemented the program, gentlemen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Both five and a few billion kunas were introduced into the shipbuilding. ... Gentlemen, what you need to say is there's a government that finds a slightly bigger crisis and that finds a solution and there's a government that belongs to Mr. Vice President who, when he comes to the pay phone today, needs to talk about the minister because it's not the issue of shipbuilding, it's not but obviously we're going to have to open up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For the fourth year of the term of office of the Government of Ivo Sanader, we determine that in 2003 regular salaries were paid, there were regular payments of cooperatives, there were no crisis situations in shipbuilding. It's the state of 2003. And you gentlemen today have shipyards that have problems getting guarantees, shipyards that don't pay again and the government says in the fourth year of office we need time to make individual restructuring decisions. But at the same time this government or Mr. Polancec, I can't talk about the government, trying to talk about crime in carrying out the recovery process. Gentlemen, everything's fine. In defense of his party colleague today, there is no limit to how we should point to everything the former government has done, everything. But what we're trying to tell you, we SDPs, and we accept, it's all our fault. But gentlemen, in four years of your term, no one can be guilty but you, in four years of office. What you need to understand is you're the one who has to take the results and I'd say the bills for those results. You're still dealing with charges and finger showing off to the previous government. That can't justify your failure. So here, as you can see today, we have witnessed how we should avoid discussing the minister's responsibility, how we should simply try to cloud the whole situation by pointing out problems, pointing out, insinuating events almost four years ago. Well, nothing new, nothing unexpected. On behalf of the promoter, I thank you, too, who, behold, have a different feeling, you are thinking about this proposal to show mistrust and to all those who have actively participated and tried to highlight what we are saying all along, disrespecting the Law on Commercial Companies that make it clear and prescribe how members of the Supervisory Board must behave and, in particular, the President is the reason why we appreciate the decision on the responsibility of Mr Vukelic is to be taken today. It is precisely disrespecting this law that means illegal work, but in addition to this illegal work, we are also talking about its political responsibility because it did not protect Brodosplit from people who were involved in international crime in the fight for personal benefit and personal benefit. They were not aware enough that they had to maintain the reputation of Croatia and the reputation of the Croatian government. That's why they have to bear political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85093	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85094	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Linic incorrectly claimed that some of us alluding to HDZ did not care about clearing up international crime. My colleague, I think I can say on behalf of my colleagues that we care very much about clearing up international crime, as well as possible crime and in the "Brodosplit" affair. Both by the possible former administration and the current one who will also be the former. So we really care. And we also care about clearing up crime and conflict of interest in the affairs of "Vicor Lenca", "Riječka Banka", and selling Dubrovnik hotels "Excelsior", "Belevue" and "Compas". Let me remind you. Under your chairmanship, the hotel "Belevue" was sold to a natural person, Goran Struk. Physically. And by which this person could physically guarantee the restoration of the hotel and everything else. Under your leadership, the "Compas" hotel was sold to a company from "Ceine Aiwansa". I believe most don't know where "Ceine Aiwans" is. Let the "off-short" company represented by the same Goran Strok These all affairs and this crime and this conflict of interest... /The speaker has been excluded./... [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85095	Second correction by the respected representative Jagoda Majska-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lenac has, pardon Linic has chosen to say that we are all here to protect our minister together. No, not at all. We've been trying to protect ourselves here all day. Do you know who it's from? From such top moral economic authority as you are. I'm just asking you where your cheek is?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85097	Third correction, respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85098	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Linic said the government does not implement, does not implement an active crime fight. He then said that Mr. Vukelic has been cheating on the Croatian public for nine months. He said that 25 million marks or EUR more came to the State budget from the Rijeka Bank, but did not say where 100 million marks disappeared from the Rijeka Bank. Mr. Linic has said a lot of lies here, trying to insult everyone and attack all of us who disagreed with your proposal here today, and it is our right to disagree and it is our right to talk about it. And to support that you very often do not tell the truth the other day you said on TV that this government has done nothing in the gasification of Croatia. It was this very last year that 497 kilometers of gas pipelines were built more than ever before. You're dead cold said it wasn't done. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85099	Honorable deputy vice president of House Luka Bebic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85100	Mr Linic seems to have replaced the thesis so when he spoke of HDZ members being, in a way, supported by the government and not being responsible for their actions in individual administrations or supervisory committees. And it's not, sir, about "Viktor Lenc" and "Vrhovec". This is about "Brodosplit". But you might... They talked all the time about "Lance" and how much the devil took there to say so, and in fact maybe you meant "Brodosplit". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, Matešina Vlad and the 1999 parliamentary majority abolished the fact that parliamentary representatives and ministers were members of the supervisory board. Who returned here to be ministers again and to be parliamentary representatives? That's what our government did, so Mr. Churchman, whom I appreciate and respect, was said on 22 committees. And you were in one 50, and Goran Granic said over 70. You can imagine what a man could do on these boards, now he should decide there on operational matters and so on. Well, you're the one who got to this because we were in '99, and we're gonna end it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85101	Dear Representative Florian Boras. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85102	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to my colleague Linic's allegations that I, between us, is a huge difference, an uncompromising difference on this issue. Everything else is incorrect. For Mr. Linic, it's a success to bankrupt Lance. It's a good business move for Lenac, for Croatia. For Mr. Linic, stealing $100 million in the Rijeka Bank is a rescue for the Rijeka Bank. She came out richer from the whole story. At the same time, when our shipyards have full cars, it's a disaster. That's bad. That is what Minister Vukelic is responsible for. ... Our shipyards have good contracts, that's just as bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's bad for Croatia, it's bad for those shipyards. Because maybe one day, you wouldn't, but people will get used to the good stuff and then what? And thanks to President Shakespeare, who made one big mistake, he didn't turn off his cell phone. I got one text, and I need to read it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85103	Correction of an incorrect quote... Dear Representative [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85104	He's about like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85105	You won't read anything now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85106	.../The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85107	No reading. Where are you going, where are you going to say it's my fault? I'll start with that. The President of the Parliament can't be guilty of anything. And distinguished representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct Mr. Linic's inaccuracies when he accused all of us MPs that we have some morale to defend our minister. Well, I don't know who defended you, Mr. Linic, when there was a problem with PIC Vrbovac, so you went to Mr. Pankretić with a request and he says he doesn't have a moral, no... He can't sign. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You say, "It doesn't matter, they might sign Mr. Vojkovic." So you're sending that paper to Vojkovic. Mr. Vojkovic says: "We cannot sign this. It is illegal." And the day after you as Deputy Prime Minister You sign, sign, Mr. Bertz gets $60,000... [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So the SDP used you here to talk to us about morality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85109	Correction to the further, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go. Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85110	Correcting. May I say?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85111	You can do it if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85112	I am correcting the incorrect and arbitrary qualifications of Mr Linic, who spoke of the Minister's ignorance. The minister doesn't know. That's not only incorrect. That's offensive. Where did you get the right, Mr. Linic, to pronounce yourself some professional arbitration and superior authority? Which qualify you to insult the MPs, to insult the ministers. The way you spoke and the position you took yourself simply disqualifies you, but disqualifies this whole interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85113	Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect quote is a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85114	Mr. President, I need to correct Mr. Linic's guilty allegations. I mean, this is how he pointed his hand at me, on the left side, and he says it's your fault. These gentlemen can't be anything as guilty as I am because thank God we can't be anything here. You said it yourself, because you're in charge of us that there's nothing we can do about it. If it's not your fault, I can't do it!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85115	It's for procedural things for...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85116	I guess the gentleman was thinking of the HDZ government and I have to fix it because Mrs. Scare Ozbolt is guilty for at least two years. So she's got her share of guilt too. However, neither she nor the members of the government are guilty because the government does not exist. The government is Ivo Sanader and if he's guilty of anything he's guilty of [[Come on, sit down, please. Here I am, putting you out. I can't listen to you anymore.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85117	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Correction of an incorrect allegation. It's not. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Proposal on distrusting the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Branko Vukelic. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to show mistrust to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Branko Vukelic. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, Article 115(5). The Constitution. So at least 77 MPs. Like this, those who vote to show no confidence to the minister vote for, with, that's what that cross is. Those who vote against you vote with that minus. We can vote. The result? 29 for, 2 abstentions, 69 against. I find that the majority rejected the proposal to show no confidence in the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Branko Vukelic. I am voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the HSS and HSLS Club, which the government representative said would not accept. [[Applause.]] What? [[/Intruder: President?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85119	So in accordance with this good practice, I would suggest that the HDZ Club accept these conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85120	I've already told you that a government official has told you that he does not accept these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85121	I didn't ask...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85122	And that's the same for you. Representative of the HDZ Club. Here you go. Dear Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85123	Although I don't have to plead... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85124	That's it. And the representative... Proposer Zlatko Kramarić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85125	Well, I have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85126	Peace, peace there!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85127	Dear Mr. President, I am now a little surprised by the HDZ club's position precisely because my colleague Bebic said earlier that it was a good practice introduced by Matešina's government and which the then majority in parliament accepted. So I don't see why you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85128	Well, we don't have a debate. There is no debate on the metrics of colleagues Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85129	Well, it's not a debate, it's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-22-0.u85130	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Same line. The result? 30 for, 7 abstentions, 65 against. So the conclusions didn't get the necessary majority.
