ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85782	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the session and I suggest that these two points of 19 and 20 be joined together, to discuss that then the clubs have 15, 20 minutes and this is 10 minutes enough for the MPs. If you don't mind? So we're going to the 19th and 20th points. This means: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining, with a final proposal for law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 635 Also: - Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006 Proposer of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... emergency procedure applied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Proposal for an act submitted by mail. In accordance with Article 159, the first and second readings of the law are united. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. As far as these other points are concerned, humanitarian demining has been submitted by the government. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy, National Security. You received the report at the session. Would the motioner's representative like to explain the bill? State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85783	The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on humanitarian demining and the report on the implementation of the 2006 humanitarian demining plan is also closely related to the matter of interest to the Croatian public. Especially those areas that are mined. The MUP has proposed to adopt amendments to the Law on humanitarian demining in order to repair the situation in this extremely important activity in those segments where we have seen that there is room for corrections in order for this activity to be carried out faster, more efficiently, and for all participants involved in this extremely important business to be able to perform it faster and more effectively but in no case can it go to the heart of the liability of the work done. One of the most important proposed newspapers in this law is that geodetic measurement should work CROMAC rather than, as so far, demining companies. In fact, these geodetic operations regularly engaged geodetics to companies that did demining work for a long time. And that was a significant problem for them in carrying out that primary activity, which is demining. It is then deleted from the provision that authorised legal persons and craftsmen may carry out search and demining operations only with the capacities declared in the tender documentation and those methods of work and equipment established in the certified SOP. Since the method of introducing any additional capacity will be prescribed for each project in the public tender documentation, this will indeed be facilitated in the event that the company introduces new capacities in the performance of the business. The issue of education of persons trained to carry out demining operations under foreign regulations is also identified and the question of recognition of the powers of persons who have passed a professional examination is regulated by the rules adopted by the Minister of Defence so that the members of the Ministry of Defence who have passed the examination on the basis of the regulations prescribed by the defence minister may also be involved in demining after the termination of the military service in the MRLs. Furthermore, it is also proposed to mitigate the conditions for the granting of powers for workers, pyrotechnicians and auxiliary staff in the sense that obstacles to the performance of these tasks are only those criminal acts that are being prosecuted by official duty in order to avoid exclusion from these cases of persons who are potentially punished for minor and leprosy crimes such as slander, insult, minor physical injury. The same law provides for the amendment of the existing legal provision that the safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of activity can be imposed independently of which, during which time period the infringement has been repeated in such a way as to limit it to a period of one year, so that indeed, those people who have certain penalties would not be permanently excluded from demining operations. It also provides for a partial change in the part that regulates the problem of infringement sanctions for pyrotechnicians because no safeguards are imposed against the exercise of activities for a certain period of time but is also addressed in a way that the Ministry of Interior in such cases takes power over the same period of time. This allows the Ministry to immediately mean that, before the end of the infringement procedure from the humanitarian demining system, persons who are temporarily detached from their unprofessional and irresponsible work endanger the safety of end-users in, in the demining area. We consider this important because this will provide the Ministry of the Interior with the possibility that, as soon as possible from this responsible job, those who treat this business irresponsiblely and who, by their unwitting work, can question the safety of people. So to conclude the basic purpose of proposing amendments and supplementing this Law on humanitarian demining is primarily to enable companies and participants in demining to carry out this job simpler. To make them more efficient. But I repeat, in no way will it go to reduce the security of their work or to the security of those areas which they have examined or demined. The law also reports on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006. This is a regular report submitted by the Ministry of Mine Action and the Croatian Mine Action Centre for the sake of presentation and performance of the situation in the areas of the Republic of Croatia which are mine-suspecting. So for 2006 humanitarian demining was returned to the use of an area of 24 million 782 thousand 338 square meters of which demining was searched, i.e. 9 million 464 thousand square meters demining, and search controlled 15 million 318 thousand square meters, representing a realization of 91.8% compared to the 2006 plan. However, if they get involved in this and the areas agreed for 2006, the overall implementation of the plan is 26 million 764 thousand 782 meters square meters and 99.1% of the planned surfaces that were to be returned to use during 2006. Here you have also seen in the table which is attached to the material in which the county space is returned to use. It varies. However, it varies exclusively because of the possibility of performing these tasks on the ground and from the companies that did these on the ground. In the structure of demining search and contracted areas, agricultural areas are dominated by 40.2%. Forests and fire roads and cross-sections with 17.6% participation and infrastructure facilities with 15%. The emphasis was on agricultural areas because the impact of this job on agricultural areas is also the largest since these areas return to management primarily to owners, whether to trade societies or family economies. As regards the plan of the realised and spent funds for demining operations, it is evident that the state budget provides for, or planned for 2006, 150 million kuna. The rebalance provided 155 million 751 thousand. And from that, it is evident that the planned amount from the state budget was realised by more than 100%. However, we have problems with the realisation of the payment of funds by legal persons and bodies of the state administration and local self-government. Although these funds are not foreseen in terms of the state budget, we have this significantly smaller realization. In fact, 86 million kunas were planned, realized 48 million, which means that the funds from this position were secured at a very small amount of 56% and the donations were planned at 55 million kuna, and were realised at 53 million 226 thousand, which is 95.6%. It is therefore evident that in 2006, legal entities and authorities of the state administration and local self-government in financing these demining operations as planned for 2006. As far as donations are concerned, 53 million were planned and the plan was reached with 95%. However, in the same period, a grant was agreed in the nose of 58 million, which means that by 4.3% more donations were provided than was planned. By making the biggest donors the European Union, then the Kingdom of Norway, the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany. During 2006, further oscillations and changes in prices per metre per square metre occurred in competitions. So the average price of contracted search works was 7.64 kuna per metre of square VAT, with demining being the price of demining being 8 kuna 90 lip per metre square, and the average price of all contracted works was 8 kuna and 21 lip without VAT. During the last year, demining companies indicated the unsustainability of this price in the sense that the price is too low, that it does not cover their actual material costs incurred by performing these transactions. And I'm sure this year we'll have to work through conversations with companies or their owners to somehow get to the price that's optimal. However, this price will again be established in a public tender that all companies must appear this year. That's why we've had some trouble calling the competition. However, I hope that this problem will be overcome and that companies that are registered for demining operations will continue these operations with their capacities this year. The same is true in 2006 and the continued revision of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia so that the Croatian Mine Action Centre started in 2006 with a review of mine suspected space established in 2004. By 31 December 2006, the total audit covered 53 cities and municipalities with mine suspected area of 913 square kilometers, i.e. 76% of the total mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia. During the revision, the area of 78 km of square meters was excluded from mine suspect, which is encouraging because it is evident that there were mine polluted areas in that area, less than those we considered and treated as mine suspected. Based on the analysis of the 2006 revision at the completion of the same period and in the first half of 2007 it is expected to see a further reduction in mine suspected space of 44 square kilometers on 31 December 2006. Also one of the most important tasks primarily of CROMAC is the development of a draft humanitarian demining programme for the period 2007-2009. Since this demining business is obvious, it will take time for the socially sensitive work to be financed to be oscillated. Given the sources of income, and that this plan simply needs to provide for these oscillations in order to respect reality. But also secure the greatest possible pace in doing this job. So certainly the Croatian Mine Action Centre will create this humanitarian demining programme for the period from 2007 to 2009. It is also one of the most important activities and completing and putting into service the mine information system and in 2006, and in 2007 it will be the final extension of the already existing project apartment centre as a connection for the spatial database that all participants, and above all CROMAC will have much better data and much more accessible data on mine suspected areas that are very important in doing this job. During 2006, education on mine dangers and assistance to mine victims was conducted the co-ordinated role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and in collaboration with NGOs and international organisations because it is very important to continue to warn residents who live near mine suspected areas about the danger of movement in these areas. And what might be most important, which is the data on the number of mine incidents and the number of victims. Last year, there was a further reduction in the number of mine incidents and the number of victims. So in 2005, there were 13 mine incidents, last year there were 7, 2005 and there were 13 people killed, with 4 people killed, and in 2006 there were 10 people killed in mine incidents, one of which was fatal, and that trend was falling, and especially those killed in the last three years were visible, and that may be the greatest success of saving people's lives, that is, every year we have fewer and fewer fatal deaths, and the goal should certainly be for all those involved in this business to contribute to the fact that we do not have human victims in mine fields, and we hope that this year at last and have a year of the first time without fatalities. Here were the shortest data on what the Croatian Mine Action Centre was and other participants in this socially sensitive business. We hope that this year there will be more funding for the implementation of all those activities foreseen by the demining plan for 2007 because it is really difficult to be satisfied with this dynamic that is being implemented and that gives us simple information that shows that the job will last for years. And I'm saying, we hope this year will be better, that all the participants will do the job according to plan, that this plan will be realized 100% in order to bring back thousands of square miles to the residents as mine-cleaned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85784	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85785	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 91st session held on 22 March, the Committee discussed one and the second proposal and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, as well as the report on the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2006 and after the debate reached the following conclusions. The Law on humanitarian demining has adopted the draft law, namely the conclusion, and it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining in the text as proposed by the legislator. A report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006, the Committee unanimously decided to propose and propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial year 2006 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85786	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP club, MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85787	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. First, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I will refer to the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006, and in the second part of my presentation I will say something about the proposal, on the final proposal of the Law on humanitarian mine action. When it comes to this report, I'm going to talk about three important questions, the first question is the dynamics of demining, the second question is money, and the third question is the number of deaths. You saw for yourself about the issue of dynamics in 98th, it was said that Croatia will be demined within 10 years. So according to this variant, Croatia should be demined in 2008 so all unexploded means of killing as such and mine explosives would no longer be available, no more, should be cleaned. But when we consider that there are still 1147 km2 that have been found to be mine explosives, that means according to this dynamic that is being implemented, last year we were demining a little less than 25 km2 and according to this dynamic, let's say, if we were to demine in Croatia every year what is planned, which is 30 km2, that means that it takes another 38 years to demine or translate it means that in 2045, Croatia would be mineless. But if you take this dynamic, not which is planned, but the dynamics that are being realized, for that 25-kilometer dynamic that was made last year, that means it takes another 46 years, and that ultimately means that it would be 2053. So only in 2053 would Croatia be without mines if we stick to this as far as we mined last year, which is 25 kilometers. So, obviously, we can't be satisfied with the dynamics of demining, and normally there's an immediate and money issue, because this part that happened annually last year was about 300 million, this year it's going to be more and it's going to depend on these other parts. Therefore, demining according to monetary data would take about 11 billion kuna so far. So 11 billion kunas should be achieved in order to achieve this plan, so according to the prices that are at this point, which is the demining of a thousand and forty-seven kilometers square. For the last time in the name of the Croatian Party Club, I was talking about this part, and we all agreed more and more about the obvious need to provide greater annual funds for the implementation of the mine-cleaning plan if we want to solve the problem of mine-cleaning. Again, on behalf of the Croatian party club, I appeal to the Croatian government with real funds, that the dynamics of demining are far better, not that there is a difference that Croatia will say without mines will be clean only in 2045, or in a worse case in 2053. I don't think with this condition, this dynamic can be reconciled even though the report in that part is realistic, so the report has shown what was done, in which areas, and in what way. Now we come to a third important question, and that's a matter of suffering. Namely, the data on the injuries has only been official since '98. A year. According to the data team, it means '98. concluded with this data you have for 2006 so far, 272 people have been killed in Croatia. So 272 people were killed with the death toll of 173. So 272 people were killed, 173 people were killed, but when they were taken in '95, '96. And '97. where, unfortunately, there have been even more injuries, these are the '98 data. When it is officially managed, there are over 500 people in Croatia who have died. We know what a human life is worth, there's no price, we know the situation, which means when someone gets hurt and becomes a permanent invalid and we have to look around here, it's good from last year, there were 13 people killed last year. 13, of which four people died. For 2006, one person died of a total of 10 people. But look also at this information, unfortunately, that even one person has been killed, God forbid that this trend continues, which means that in these 38 years or 46 years as dynamics are thus going to be realized if it is done in this way, it means that 38 more people can get hurt which we can't normally be, we can't allow it, and we really need to take more measures and activities. We know the situation that there have been cases where an area as such has been said to be demining, then there have been injuries in these areas. Good in this year and in recent years it's a situation far better, it was early '97, '98. and '99. A year. The other problem was that there were signs that a particular area was mined so that there were injuries in these situations as well. Therefore, the report as such is correct, but with the condition of the Croatian party's rights club is not satisfied and requires important shifts to be made, and this is primarily about dynamics and funding insurance because it cannot be better dynamics if funds are not provided. So 11 billion kunas are needed for Croatia in terms of money in order to implement the demining plan, i.e. to further demining these thousands of 147km square. Otherwise I have to tell you that last year you had in your report that there were a thousand 174 km square, this year in a report that still needs to be demined. This year you have a thousand 147, so the difference is 27, and 25 you've mined. I don't know where those two kilometers are. So that's where the data doesn't match. In the second part, I will look back on behalf of the club on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action with the Final Proposal for the Law. So the good thing is that last year, we brought it in December and it was applied in 2006 because in this way it corrected the legal position and the status issues of the pyrotechnics and of all persons involved in this part of the process relating to humanitarian demining, but we have these two important remarks that should be addressed by the amendment, which is the question concerning the new article 10, which means that a new article 72a is being added. Namely, you want to solve something here that needs to be solved, and that's your option to determine that mine-explosive funds or unexploded means of killing are being found. Such situations were also normal law as such to be regulated and to take appropriate measures and sanctions on the spot, meaning in terms of and prevention, but also in terms of sanctioning that means business as such demining was done, but was not done because they were found or unexploded... funds or mine-explosive means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what you've done here, it's impossible to implement because you went to the first diction, saying if after the work of the pyrotechnics you find mine-explosive means or unexploded means or parts of them, and against it, now you think, that subject is probably thinking of the pyrotechnics, so... a infringement procedure for the infringements referred to in Article 72 of this Act has already been initiated, and the ministry will take away its power for a period of 3 months to one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, I haven't seen it legally yet that, the fact that someone has been prosecuted so that they can have any legal effects. He can't have it. You can file a misdemeanor, initiate a misdemeanor procedure, but that misapplication as such may be rejected, rejected, and we know that in most cases it is such a situation that 60% of the misdemeanor reports go out of date. And so it's impossible to legally tie it up. Expressing this detachment measure that from three months to one year will take away the right of the pyrotechnician to do so. You have to go to a completely different version. And that's the one that exists to you in the State Inspectorate Act. But not here that the ministry will do it, but that the inspector will. So, if the inspector determines this fact in carrying out inspection that a mine-explosive agent or an unexploded killing agent and part of it has been found after the work has been done, the inspector shall immediately declare the oral solution. And that is the solution to the ban on work from three months to one year, depending on what he has determined. And after three days it means it's being written down. The prohibition shall enter into force immediately and after three days of the sea and shall notify that decision in writing. But you have a further problem, if we go to this variant, which is the only possible solution to this part of what you want, but then you're going to have to fix these provisions in law relating to administrative inspection. Namely, since you do not have this situation that you have, that the possibility of an appeal is envisaged and that the complaint is resolved by the Commission, but you do not have that appeal in such a case, which we have determined, that the appeal does not retain execution. Therefore, you will have to fix this part not only in Article 72a. which you have spoken, but you will have to complete with this, because you will have legal problems in all of this, so that in a criminal court if you do not have such provisions bound, done whether the appeal retains or does not retain the execution? Therefore, that is the only way to remove it. Well, now there's another question about that. So it applies in the first sentence that as such he will be a fine pyrotechnician. But normally it's a legal rule, a pyrotechnician doesn't do it alone. That is, he works for society, who approved the job. So now there is a variant, no society as such will be punished, because society signed a contract with the Croatian Mine Action Centre to do the job, in the field of demining operations. But you see, on the punishment of a pyrotechnician who's employed in that society, it's legal for me to be wrong. Because measures should also be taken against such companies that show themselves not to do their job according to what the contract found to be working. And teaching on that part then comes this part to mean, in this part, those sanctions in the same way that I said I should do, they could apply to the pyrotechnic supervisor, the pyrotechnic overseer, the head of the pyrotechnics' workshop and the auxiliary staff who carry out these tasks under the law. So, if you want to achieve this, you will have to go to the amendment and deal with this situation legally in this way, in order to have a preventive effect that such things do not happen, and in order for the sanctions to be adopted as such to survive legally, that is to say that in the appropriate procedure it would be in violation or any other way before the Croatian Administrative Court, it would all fall into your water, because you do not have elaborated powers and the manner of the inspection. This is generally a major problem with all inspections when the legal provisions are observed. There are no precise procedures as well as in any way, but it is tried as a quick solution, and in fact, such situations occur in procedures, that such solutions and such actions by the inspectors either in the criminal court, or in the Administrative Court fall. Now there's another question about this part of the law. And it refers to the new article 4 and related to giving authority to believe that someone has passed the pyrotechnics exam. Those provisions also need to be better worked out from the point of view means, exactly how this procedure, to whom the application is submitted, who solves the request and is the issue possible? Because you don't always have to ensure the right to legal protection, which you don't have. So, if someone is in the military or somewhere else has it trained, then he has to file a request to the Ministry of Internal Affairs that he's going to mean, issue a certificate that he has, that he's qualified to be required under the law to do pyrotechnics' work. Now, we're particularly interested in that part here, so when you work it out, we're interested in this part, why is this part for strangers now? Veli, the same situation that the ministry will give both a certificate and a conviction, confirms that the foreign person who comes from the country as having completed the appropriate programmes for the work of pyrotechnicians. Do you think here that now, that companies in Croatia will hire foreigners, means that at the small door we give the possibility even though we know what the problem was with pyrotechnics, what was the problem with Mungos, thank God that the issue was resolved, that Mungos was back on its feet. Or here they want those societies that deal with these jobs to come to an even cheaper workforce. For me, it's okay for this provision in terms of the competition, so the competition got some foreign society and everything, so that foreign society as it was in the competition could do it. Normally, all employees of that foreign society’s pyrotechnicians must also have a certificate that they are qualified or that they can do these jobs by the Ministry of the Interior. But here you forgot to say if it's a stranger who comes not within that foreign company to do these jobs but it's about a foreigner who's employed means, in our company, but still can't work if he doesn't have a work permit. Now, is that what you wanted or didn't want? But I'm just turning to that part of the law about the Labour Act. Therefore, as regards the law, I propose that, in any case, the amendment Government resolves this issue in Article 72, because without resolving this issue and as I have legally said, it should be resolved, that it may be implemented and implemented, unfortunately we will not get what this amendment is about in relation to sanctioning or preventing those found to have been done but mine-explosive funds or unexploded killings are found. And in the report, we are asking for the government's testimony, whether it will take measures to make the dynamics happen faster, because none of us among the Croatian citizens and we know what the situation is like for the counties, can be satisfied with that, that the demining in Croatia will continue for 46 or 38 years. So we're looking for an answer here because unfortunately last year we said it, it's obvious that dynamics are the same, that there are no significant shifts that we all believe here in this Croatian assembly we want. Therefore, let us not send such messages unfortunately to Croatian citizens that the process will last, last and last, and it is evident that every year it does not increase the number of kilometres that is demining but is decreasing. Last year you had 29, these 25 not to talk, that's the other way around. If there's a reduction then it'll be 2060. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85788	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must warn this third time that the committees did not discuss points 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, then 29, 30 and 32. Yesterday we called and finished early, and this morning a little later it began to allow committees to schedule and discuss certain agenda points. We have conditions for two more points because we have been discussed on committees. So I'm asking the board presidents to schedule their sessions. If not, then we have something to discuss on Wednesday. However, we have two, three points of the agenda that might begin but in some ways the work of the Parliament is slowing down because the committees do not discuss certain points of the agenda in a timely manner. There. Thank you. It's like a warning. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Anto Bagarić. Here you go. ... What's a correction? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of what? I can? Here's to correcting. You have no regrets, I've been warned, you have no business opportunities, so you can whisper it to me later. I'll admit it if I was wrong. There's no business opportunity for the president to correct himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85789	There are three points that have conditions, not two. I know three points that have conditions, not two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85790	I said that some points would have on Wednesday but we skipped them in the meantime. And they've got two in the current one as we've come to this agenda point, but we're going to do it internally. If there's a menu, I'll be glad. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85791	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The preservation of natural and cultural wealth as well as the use of it as defined by our Constitution are the basis for the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining with the Final Proposal of the Law. Although the Law on humanitarian demining came into force on 5 January 2006, problems of a practical nature to be addressed were seen in its application. According to the current law, the contractor of works, search and demining prior to the surrender of the site to CROMAC is required to submit and provide a final geodetic measurement or elaborat, which extended and collected works, so that the final geodetic measurement will be provided by CROMAC as rational, faster, cheaper solution as possible. He's also given a ten-day period. The provisions of the law which stipulates that an authorised person or craftsman may carry out search operations, demining only with the capacities declared in the documents offered and those working methods and equipment established in a certified set of prescribed operational procedures, as the method of introducing any additional capacity will be prescribed for each project in the public tendering documentation. A way of education of persons qualified to carry out demining operations under foreign regulations is prescribed, as is regulated by the question of powers of persons with an expert examination based on the rules adopted by the defence minister. The conditions for issuing the powers of the head of the workshop, the pyrotechnics and the assistant employee shall be reduced, the provision on the right of a member of the family of the dead pyrotechnicians to enrol in educational institutions in view of the decision of the Constitutional Court by which the identical provision has been deleted in the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. CROMAC shall be extended to authorised legal persons and craftsmen to comply with the provisions of the Law on humanitarian mine action until 30 June 2007. It is important to note that no additional means are needed to implement this law or these amendments and to supplement the law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining as well as its urgent adoption for the further construction of Croatia's reconstruction and the safety of all its citizens. The Croatian Democratic Community's teaching club also discussed the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006, which analysed the implementation of the plan for the period from 1.1 to 31.12.2006. Remember, the plan set out the following basic tasks. Demining, searching and returning to the use of 27km square mine suspected space, improving the control system, quality of humanitarian demining operations, completing the revision of the entire mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia, maintaining the marking of mine suspected space, drawing up a draft humanitarian demining programme for the period 2007/2009. Year, complete and put into operation the mine-information system, educate the population on mine dangers and help mine victims, intensify international co-operation. The initial basis for drawing up the plan was a thousand,47km of square mine suspected space, which included 12 counties marked with a circus of 10,000 warning marks with a planned financing amounting to 292 million kuna. Human demining, effort and marionage above all valuable pyrotechnicians has been returned to use an area of 24.8 km square, demining about 9.5 and searching 15.3 km square, representing 91.8% of the plan. If the area agreed in 2006 is included then the total achievement of the 2006 plan is 26.8 km square or 99.1% of the plan. If we look at a small structure of demining surfaces, the absolute first place is the agricultural area with 40.2%. Then houses and gardens with 4.7%, infrastructure and infrastructure facilities 15%. It's 2.1% forest. Makia or break 7.8% and other surfaces about 12.6%. Demining operations through 127 demining projects and search operations through 126 search projects have removed the mine risk of a surface of 24.8 kilometers and by conducting general reconnaissance within 53 cities and municipalities has been excluded from a mine suspected area of 78 million square meters or 7.8 km square. So much explanation and representative of the HSP Club Mr. Kovacevic where those kilometers he didn't calculate properly. This resulted in a reduction in mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia in 2006 by 10.2 km square and therefore mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia on 31.12.2006. 1044 kilometers square. During demining and searching in 2006, a total of 8000 107 mined and unexploded killings were found. The works, well mentioned, were performed by 28 commercial companies, one NGO, 583 pyrotechnics, 45 machines and also very important 103 dogs who were in office of man on this very important task. To welcome 193 expert supervision of the completed search operations. 173 expert supervision of the demining operations carried out, which is significantly more than the average size of the control sample established by the law. The ongoing supervision and monitoring of the company's business through the establishment of the degree of training has achieved an immediate response to all irregularities related to the work of the company, as well as to the quality of the performance of the works primarily through the verification of the correctness of the equipment for the performance of the business. These are primarily certificates or certificates. The demining plan compared to sources of funding was reached by 86.5%. The planned 292 million kuna reached 257 million 183 thousand 978 kuna, most of which was part of the State budget with 155.7 million kuna or 60.6%. Legal persons, government bodies and local self-government with 48.2 million kuna or 19.3% and donations from which we must highlight foreign donations that participated with 95% and domestic donations of 5%, with 53 million, 53.2 million kuna or 20.1%. The average price of contracted search works without VAT was 7.64 kuna. The secretary of state said indeed about one price that is quite unstable. I'd say low for the job being done. Average price of contracted works, demining 8 kuna 90 June, and average price of all agreed works 8 kuna 21 lip without VAT. This is what I was counting on by the way to hear the information Mr Kovacevic gave. Namely, if the area that is still left is 1044 km square multiplied by some average price of future works of 10 kuna and 16 limes, we will need 10 and a half billion kuna or, more precisely, 10 billion kuna 457 million, so if we divide these funds here with this year's budget that we had for demining 257 million kuna, which is also the largest budget so far, it will take Croatia 40 to 41 years to solve the pollution of mines in this space. This calculation does not give too much optimism but it very much mobilizes each individual, an economic operator, a social institution to address the problem of demining and searching mine-free space. First of all, because of the dangers and endangers the lives of Croatian citizens as well as the economic potential that lies unused in land, forest and water. I'm sure it's one thing. To search and demine each mine polluted and meter square will obviously require knowledge, money and time. Knowledge should be focused on continuous maintenance of the marking of mine suspected space. Include all our societies that we have or associations that we have from hunting, fishing to green action societies and so on that can help maintain the urgency of each contaminated area and all the good people of good faith from our schools and other institutions that can help with certain actions this way. Completing or upgrading and putting into function of the mine-information system, educating the population on mine dangers and this information should be mentioned that here through the activities of the Mine Action Centre of certain ministries educated almost 500 thousand people about the dangers of mines. Money for legal aid and assistance to mine victims through employment and self-employment, psychosocial rehabilitation, one-time scholarship projects, psychosocial assistance, medical assistance in annual, three-year demining projects. And time in its own activity in institutional activity, in seeking help through international cooperation and every chance in every project that we will run through pre-accession and access funds. So far, we have been through the use of the "Cards" programme and through the "EIB 1" programmes, the "EIB 2" has had priorities for those projects that require demining to be located or implemented on the ground. It will be in the future, and that chance should be taken absolutely. It is also stronger to participate in all our units of local self-government, although I know, we would say we do not have enough resources to cover the domain of our work, but it is important because of the potential that lies exactly in their territory both in the land, both in the forests and in the waters to engage more actively in this aid. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club estimates that this report is very correct and well written and that, in fact, its appeal to all of us from all of our institutions is that we get even stronger and more actively involved in money, activity and business, projects in demining our area. In this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will also support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85792	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85793	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006. It's just a report that's been made correctly. Everything is clear and visible. However, if we know that Croatia was the target without mines in 2010, and now my colleagues in front of me have been working for 30 and 40 years to keep Croatia free of mines, then it's something scary, and I think all of this information in this report is correct and accurate. But I think we all need to ask ourselves how much we've done, what our role is, how much society should engage in that. I believe that without the special involvement of the Government, political parties, churches, associations, sports, escarpment and all that is complete in this society that we do not fully engage that this problem will for years and years torture us. As far as the budget itself is concerned, 95% of the government's budget from demining. I think that's the biggest damage and that there's an indication that everyone else in this society has failed and that we simply don't know how to use the funds and the ones we've been offered. I have to stress here in the county, I must commend the Zadar County that has reached a 150.7% plan. Dubrovnik-Neretvaska with 104.2%, Split-Dalmatia with 98.9%, Sibenik-Kninska 94.8%, Virovitica-Podravska with 93.6%. But gentlemen, I can't help but wonder that Požega-Slavonska only achieved at 76% and we have some more with 80, Brod-Posavina and so on. I think these counties where the results haven't been achieved that they haven't, probably the problem in these counties, their staffs, etc. But the government and the resolution ministries that are in charge of this part I think we should educate and send people to these counties, help these counties find ways to make a plan with 120, 130% to try to secure their citizens, some safer life for their children as soon as possible. Because the way things are now, we have a reduction in the wounded and the dead. We have some positive effects. But it's not enough. I think the whole society not only of these governments, but of all associations, organizations, parties, we all have to make a maximum, and normally the government needs to run it, and the government should be the one to come up with it and run it. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action under the Final Proposal, Article 1 is deleted; the provision stipulating that an authorised legal person and craftsman may carry out search and demining operations only with the capacities declared in the tender documentation and those working methods and equipment established in the certified SOC. I think this article 1 limits, if the company authorised to do this work in the meantime gets some new funds or hires more people to make it possible for them to finish it faster. I mean, there's no need for this restriction. But all right, it's not a big deal. Article 2 of authorised legal entities and craftsmen shall be exempt from the obligations of the final geodetic bridge to apply the elaborates, the position of me as the diameter mentioned above represents the difficulties which result in the extension of the working deadlines and their collection, which we certainly support and which we believe is aimed at faster and more effective work and is costing the whole thing. So at the end of the day, we'll be able to demining larger areas with less resources. Anyway, it's a great article. Article 3 is prescribed to the Croatian Mine Action Centre to ensure the elaborate of the final geodetic diameter, which is considered a rational solution without prejudice to the extension of the working deadline. The CROMAC must therefore carry out final supervision, and therefore there is no need for an elaborate of the geodetic background. I think that's the same thing as okay. and that in terms of better and faster and more functional work. Article 4 provides for a way of training of persons trained to carry out demining tasks according to foreign rules. Since a series of questions have been raised by domestic and foreign legal persons on the possibility of carrying out demining operations with pyrotechnicians who are foreign nationals and who are trained in other countries, and not in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to determine whether they are adequately trained to carry out these tasks and whether they can perform them as safely and quality as our pyrotechnicians. It is also possible for persons who have passed a professional examination according to the rules adopted by the defence minister to carry out humanitarian demining operations. It's perfectly fine, and I think this is protection and our people who will live on that field afterwards, as well as the participants themselves. I think this is a great point and we support it anyway. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on humanitarian demining in such a way that only criminal acts that are being prosecuted under official duty are an obstacle to the granting of powers, and some minor acts of criminality are excluded; petty social dangers are petty theft, slander, insult, minor bodily injury, damage to other people's affairs, etc. So we also support it because we think that people who are being punished for some small piece of work don't need to be further punished by the inability to sit at home and walk around the pubs instead of working. I think it's the same thing makes sense and we support that point. Articles 6 and 7 shall be deleted for known reasons not to read. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on humanitarian demining which provides that the safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of activity may be imposed independently in which period of time the infringement is repeated in a way that limits the same to the time period of one year. This eases the existing legal provision that can result in the company’s bankruptcy. I'm on point, on Article 8, I've given an amendment. You've got it. I think he's very important and he's acceptable to you and I think he's acceptable to everything. The amendment reads: Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining, with the final proposal of the law, the point behind the word "at least six months" is replaced by the word "and the obligation to re-evaluate the ability of authorised legal persons or craftsmen to carry out humanitarian demining operations referred to in paragraph 7 of this Act". Recital: If an authorised legal person or craftsman for humanitarian mine-mining operations in a period of one year repeats a serious offence such as the finding of lagging mine explosives or when demining operations are carried out by unauthorized often unprofessional persons, it is necessary to prescribe a repeat assessment of the capacity by CROMAC in order to ensure the safety of human life and health as well as the quality of demining. It's the same as when a driver commits multiple violations, so he's given a rescheduling measure of the driver's test. I think this is meant to certainly protect the people who work and the citizens who will live there afterwards. This amendment, as well as others concerning Articles 9 and 10, addresses the issue of criminal sanctions on pyrotechnicians, labour leaders, staff assistants, pyrotechnicians and supervisors, in such a way that in the event of a re-infringement, no safeguards are imposed on the exercise of activity for a specified period of time are already addressed in the same way that the Ministry of Internal Affairs in such cases takes power over the same period of time. This enables the ministry to temporarily remove persons who, through their unprofessional and irresponsible work, endanger the safety of the end-users of the demining areas, who are citizens in a timely manner from the humanitarian demining system. I gave the same amendment in front of the Croatian People's Party club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 2 at the end of the sentence is replaced by a comma and the word is added: "they refer it to re-educated and training of persons to carry out humanitarian demining operations as referred to in Article 33 of this Act". Reason: If the pyrotechnician and the supervisor are a pyrotechnic overseer, the head of the workshop, the pyrotechnician or the assistant employee repeatedly violates the provisions of this law and sublegal regulations, with the removal of powers, it is necessary to refer it to the re-educated and training of persons for the conduct of humanitarian demining operations carried out by the ministry, the police academy, in order to ensure safety for the lives and health of people as well as the quality of demining. I think these two amendments are really in order to improve this law and that I can't do any harm but help. Finally, the deadline for the Croatian Mine Action Centre, authorised legal persons and craftsmen to coordinate business with the provisions of the humanitarian demining law "National Journal" 153/2005 is extended. until 30 June 2007. This date, Mr. Secretary of State, that it really is, the end date, and not that there should be an extension and extension again, as so far many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85794	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Ante Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85795	It is an incorrect allegation that the staff is guilty that the County of Požega-Slavon did not withdraw adequate funds for demining. In fact, it is true that so many funds have been withdrawn as much as it says in this report, but I would argue that, under Article 7, that is, Article 6. The Law on humanitarian demining defines the priorities under which contracts are concluded and the appropriate means are withdrawn, so the county headship can be called a potential culprit, not demining personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85796	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006. The report was made correct, transparent, content. It speaks equally of what has not been carried out as well as those things that have been carried out and, of course, with the assessment of those time dynamics which, of course, will be very difficult to achieve, given that we have some let’s call it so, and the previous goal that in 10 years since 98, we have Croatia without mines, it is clear from this report but also from previous reports, that it will simply not be possible to do so. And of course when that's the case and if we know about what kind of dynamic we have at year level, and it's moving towards an estimate in this report somewhere about 25 km2, more or less, if there's any of what Pero says plus 2 kilometers or minus 2, I don't think it's even that important, but it would be good if the figures were to match of course. Of course, efficiency above all if we want to dynamic the ultimate goal, which is Croatia without mines, should be raised. That's what I don't think anyone's arguing about. Whether that efficiency is at a level of 30 kilometers, 35 kilometers of course depends on two things. One side is absolute financial resources and we need the resources we can have, but I think there's still one element that hasn't been considered so far because we haven't considered it with that attention that he has to have, and that's the way we're now demining. Namely, how much machine demining is involved now in 2006 and what the structure of these deminings is compared to, say, world experiences. In Croatia, machine demining has increased at 15% in the last five years. Now in this year, it's about 72 to 74%. Of course, this machine demining given the modernity of technology, given the fact that it is the safest, given that it causes the least possible consequences of injury, of permanent injuries or unfortunately of fatal injury, speaks in favour of the fact that despite the relatively high resources of one of the most popular machines on the Croatian market, its price is moving around 250 000 euros of MV4 l', it says in favour of increasing funds if we want Croatia without mines as soon as possible, and we want it all expensive as soon as possible. It's not a political issue, it's a simple question that we all want to encourage together. I think we need to increase the share of machine demining, enhance the quality of this machine demining, but also what I will try to do later when we go through the counties and see how different dynamics have happened and how this different dynamics has not been in certain counties, not so much compared to the pre-planned funds, but how additional efforts can be solved in quality, especially when the economy in some way tries to get involved in the problem of solving mines in an area of interest in the economy or in the interests of citizens, however. The death toll of '98. When I think we're running this one more up-to-date, more up-to-date information about it than 272 or 3 victims, of the 173 fatalities, they're actually talking about the great challenges facing people who are doing this difficult task. It's probably a far bigger number if it's been since '93. here or since '95. On this scale he'd probably be something bigger, but in any case he'd confirm the rules. The question of whether 300 million kunas is enough to keep to the dynamics of 30 kilometers. So this is one question that we all need to ask together and we are clearly in the year in which the new budget will be adopted, it will be strengthened or the position of this topic will not be strengthened. But I think it's simply one consensus that should strengthen both the report and the support of exactly those positions. I would try to establish something that doesn't have to be true, but I have a deep feeling that those counties that are most vulnerable to mines are in some way economical and the weakest stand in Croatia. And look, and instead of trying to even these inequalitys in some way, and if we can never even them out, because the fact that they're contaminated, contaminated with mines is about how they're already the most suffering. I think we need one criterion taken differently. I think we need to provide these counties with additional funding because these are not just mine decontamination funds, these are economic recovery funds, creating opportunities and getting out of that nightmare that is in everyone's head that's just passed those areas that are contaminated, let alone God live 10 meters of those areas that are contaminated. Therefore, we must definitely change that reflection of justice. I am pleased that, in Zadar County, a surplus was made, but it is the result of the fact that the economy there, with the help of the foreign government that invested the funds, managed to decontaminate a large agricultural area where economic activity is now taking place. So two good things have been done. Mine-cleaning was carried out, economic activity was established, new employment occurred. Unfortunately, we do not have much in continental Croatia to say to the Vukovar-Srijem County, Osijek-Baranja and those counties that are otherwise suffering from a lack of economic activity. So this is a good example, but this good example should be potentiated or patented to be an example that will be supported through government projects. One possible aspect that has not been discussed so far, dear Professor Letica must admit I have warned me of this lack in this debate is that with the mines and the contamination of the sea? She may seem to you this way that it's a bit purely poetic about talking about it, but she didn't. Believe me, it's not. In fact, there's been enormous contamination in the sea since World War II. It is clear that the Homeland War has also contributed to that, but NATO's action in Serbia has further complicated that I say relations, and it should be purely for the sake of the fact that the Adriatic Sea is one of the great resources of this country, and I think that in this sense, special research should be made and it should be seen to what extent and in what way these funds, especially those that NATO has thrown into the Adriatic Sea, have a negative impact on flora and fauna, have a negative impact on the processes in the sea, etc. And how in nature are those assets that are one, and I think even one such device has been found and I don't know what her destiny was. But here I think the opportunity is that especially these coastal counties are somehow trying to tackle the Croatian Mine Action Centre and a study like this that should give an answer to this question because this is, of course, the problem of its kind, but in any case, the problem. What should also be taken into account when it comes to counties such as Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska is the fact that lately in the facilities of the former Yugoslav People's Army that have been abandoned, which are not to say under control or control, and most of them are neither under control, and should be kept in mind that those occurrences and accidents should not be repeated to meet Visa in Komiža on a mine, that tourists get one feeling that is naturally transmitted and which is very negative, not only for the reputation of tourism but also for the country's otherwise position to be found on these islands, which in some ways represent a special environment which, in any case, relative to some other parts of Croatia, has been quite relieved of war destruction. Therefore, I would point out that one fact that should be written under the Split-Dalmatia County, which points to the danger that has been recognised. What I would like to note in this report is that the strategy should simply install a new element of expectations when Croatia will be mineless. So one document should show strictly now, not a real document that shows that next year we're going to be mineless, and that's the '98 project, 10 years project, I don't think, and we just have to make one other document, but in that document, it's got to be a little selective for me. He has to treat the most seriously. And that the funds are precisely trying to target in some way and to increase and in some way increase the share of machine demining in the Republic of Croatia. When this second part of the united debate is in the context of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on humanitarian mine action, we at the HSS Club support these amendments which we believe are in the function of just strengthening the dynamics of the demining system in the Republic of Croatia, facilitating the way in which authorised persons can conduct demining tasks. Article 1 which speaks of it, we absolutely support it as all the efforts that go in that sense to make it happen. Article 4 which speaks of foreign persons and foreign legal persons who can carry out demining operations because I think it is good, in Croatia there is also demining through some companies that have proven themselves, has become an export discipline on the world market. There's nothing wrong with that. It's a job like any other. He's being held for a price. Croatia, too, is well placed and more important to me, that the Croatian economy recognized these possibilities, so it was very successful in manufacturing demining machines. So today Croatia is present in many countries that have mine problems. And I think it's good that the government also encourages such a way because unfortunately the modern world and modern challenges do not contribute to the fact that mines will be less, but unfortunately there will be more. And these are facts that Croatia simply will not be able to change, but I think it is good to encourage the development of its own economy and in this sphere. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, it's my only question if there are injuries, executioners of these very foreign faces, let's call it that, then, how are the systems of carrying out responsibility, of all the procedural positions that we have solved, as we have settled, within our legislation? How will these persons be subject to a further system of possible evaluation? Of course, Articles 6 and 7, concern simply the Constitutional Court's decision and I have no right, nor do I wish to pollemise them. Articles 8, 9 and 10, which refer to protection measures, i.e. those relating to criminal sanctions for pyrotechnicians, labour leaders, assistant staff, supervisors and overseers. I would join all those who have said that it would be good in terms of thinking and to say a uniform desire to support the rapid demining, the more quality demining and the fairer demining, to respect these remarks concerning both Articles 8, 9 and 10, respectively, of Article 72, appear to me in the law. And to try, given that almost most of the clubs are, one club has made its own amendments, that it would be good for the government to simply come out with the amendment and try completely in a proper way to valorise these proposals. And I think that would be in the mutual interest. I don't want to give some legal prescriptions now to make it look like an amendment to Articles 9 and 10, how do I legally set it up? I think that's what people who understand legal standards better do. But in any case, the HSS Club joins all those who feel it still needs to be arranged, so it doesn't become a brake to what we've all talked about together. In conclusion, I want to say that it would be a good thing if the government tried to edit the new strategy and the new time goal of ending "Croatia without Mines". To set that goal time-acceptable, but also to place it within those means that will be necessary for the end of that goal. If this can be achieved in five or six years, if it is to be achieved in ten years, then it is quite evident that 300 million kunas will not be enough. Then it is quite evident that other modes of demining, demand for conditions with the economy, renting contaminated land in the Republic of Croatia, legal entities of the economy in the way that they are first demining, then bringing in the purpose and third, to create economic conditions for innovation. I think one such contest that could be held at this time in several Croatian counties would give very good results. Namely, the biggest problem when you want to make some economic activity is paperwork how to find space, how to agree with local self-government units. These areas that are often spaces of special national concern, I think they may require one approach like this. Let's say the Zadar formula, redefined. It can be applied in other counties, and we can get to that, that the economy will be in the function of demining itself in a way that it will get to the concession of that country as well, that it will create conditions for the economy, and in this way we will be able to disburse the budget from this social element, from this social element which we only call that money, and make the time procedure "Croatia without mines" instead of 30 years is ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85798	Thank you very much. At 11:24, it's past ten minutes' notice time. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85799	It's true what my colleague Markov said, that Zadar County is ahead of mine. However, unfortunately for the latest statistics for the last and last month in Zadar County, it stagnates employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85800	Thank you very much. It is next to the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85801	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As far as this genre of reports is concerned, then we really don't have any objections about the form. This report truly corresponds fully to what is preceded by a genre of reports. The form is satisfied, as well as the content tells us in fact about the fact that it is just far from what is projected and that Croatia is to be a state without mines by 2010. I'm not regardless of our desire to really become a land without mines as soon as possible. I'm going to tell you about an event that I was directly involved in. It's easy to remember because it was my birthday on February 5, 1997. And then, unfortunately today, the late Vlado Gotovinac and I visited Vukovar and visited Mr. Klein, which is not yet, or it is a process of peaceful reintegration. They prepared those local elections that were... that for the first time and that area was integrated in a way that was indeed a good process which then contributed to the peaceful reintegration process and ended on 15 January 1998. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then on that one part of the optional conversation Mr. Klein pulled a note from... who got the day before where it said that a mine was found from World War I somewhere in France. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 1997 and somewhere probably 916 or 917 means also if... Sixty years after that mine was set up, it was found. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that just shows that we're facing one of the most insidious weapons this human mind could come up with. I remember a general who was a general of the Yugoslav People's Army before that because he was in '91. among the first crossed and at our place... talked to him when he was at the service at the military in Karlovac that they were somewhere the same at... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They set up some mines, and they never managed to demine this space precisely because it was so dangerous, and some processes happened strangely, that they had actually fenced that space and probably still today in military Carlovac they could find that space which is the minister precisely because even those experts didn't dare to mine it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But right now, many have actually connected this story about Croatia as the only country in Europe that still has mines with another situation and that's somewhere in the beginning of 2000. As Parliament's representative and then the mayor of Osijek, IKK Osijek's directors ask us to try this privatisation, restructure such a large combination to go to one of the prime ministers of the government and try to explain exactly what problems this major economic operator is facing in that area. And then just as it turns out, after ten years, we've actually lost every sensitivity just to live with mines. And now that they've started talking, they're saying that part of their surface is mined, then I'm not going to mention his name, because it doesn't matter at all, because to actually make more metaphors of our relationship, we're nothing better or worse, that economic or economic category can do it. I said so... We've been friends and we've known each other for a long time, so what do you think you're selling an apartment that's mined and I'm selling an apartment that's not mined and we're gonna get the same price? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the same with this big surface that's been mined. They really cannot be in an equal match with other economic operators and this certainly cannot be the problem of IPK Osijek or local communities. Well, in the end, I said we didn't fight the Yugoslav People's Army alone, or that's before that economic entity or the local community. It shows, it just shows that not even after ten years, but after ten years we've lost that very feeling that there have been processes that have been going on here that have been out of their minds. And also, let's be honest, one of the reasons why the breakthrough to Vukovar was constantly delayed, precisely because it was not known how to move minefields, even there, especially during August, September and we ourselves knew how to set up almost without any plan that later we couldn't find plans how these mines were set up without talking about what the aggressor and the enemy was doing. And that's what I'm saying is really big problems that are right now, and amazingly I say after a dozen years they have to be this kind of reports, they have to have this direct cause that we remember that a lot of our country is still living with it, it has to live with the awareness that there are mines in our country. There are 12 counties mentioned here in the report. ... means easier to say who they are than who they are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly they are without further ado with this purely psychological condition that you have because of the fact that you actually live near the big ones, there is no difference between big or small towns or villages but mines do exist. And that's what this story says and about our high representative of the then executive government who actually also thought without having any sense that these people are facing a major problem. When the rest of us feel like we live by mines. So, let's say, we had this fall when you were traveling to Zagreb then around the Kutina you had to come right at a specified time because the space was demining, then you have to wait 45 minutes to miss the cars. This is our main road. The same goes for the inhabitants of Osijek. When you want to travel from Osijek to the Hungarian border then also at... He says you can't do a little bit now, they're going to the morning radio that informs you that you have to choose exactly the time you're going to cross that road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now leave now, now be a random tourist from another country how you should feel and what it really means is that on that road another time you don't go, in other words it's best to eskicipate Croatia and then choose some other roads to come to your destination. They're objective problems. We, as politicians, as a Parliament, must take care of these problems. Indeed, the 300 million spoken of is a matter that will not solve Croatia by 2010 to live without mines. Although I'm saying it, I didn't want to be able to relate to that first data that Klein gave but it's a fact and even in these countries that, after 60, 70 years, we still can't be sure that we'll get all the mines out. But what we really have to do for ourselves, because of our economy precisely because of and at the end of what I do, which is the same thing that has to torture me that was, it was the possibility of making a big story. In the end, just remind me that unfortunately, too, the late Princess Diana was also involved in this story. The late Mother Teresa was involved in this story. Paul McCarthy's ex-wife was also involved in the story. The Nobel Prize was awarded there if I wasn't wrong in 1997, 1998, just for those mine fighters. Unfortunately we didn't, we got in there, we stayed out of that story. Outside that big... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mrs. Pleština is also in there, which is actually, so things had to be done differently. There was that chance. You know when you don't catch that train. And then that's exactly what Croatia as the only European country that, and because of that, and the accident that hit us in the 1990s could have exploited it much better, and then we could have solved the problem much more elegantly and more cheaply and faster. And finally, really this, working on what, I don't doubt that any government here is really a political party issue. It is indeed a question of what kind of land we want to live in and certainly a land without mines. And then you're gone, and there's no education, and there's no sensitization that we're not gonna support. From estrada, from sports clubs, from politicians and from, through the theatre, through the media, really have this story all the time, this story that has to give results. She can't be palitative, they can't be, they can't actually be on the promotion of those, that she promotes I don't know a football club or God forbid what but just to be in the function of this one truly noble thing. So much for this report, but I'm just saying this, these details, and let's see what can be fixed in the meantime. I say unfortunately I don't think that this topic can go back to the world media the way it could have been exploited there in the 1990s. And about this law, I'm seeing it not only as one, that law should be the mere legal technique that will just help this, from the report, it's likeness, its content, to finally be at the level of this great form to make it happen. And there really shouldn't be, you shouldn't be mean to the people who do that job. Technology is the state-of-the-art, safest, best right now and in order to resolve this legal, labour-legal issue and to create such legal solutions, which will really speed things up and certainly not make it difficult. So I say on behalf of this club we also support this new bill proposal, and every time we realize that some of the provisions have just been in place, let's not say intentional but here's random obstruction, and on the other hand I say we just have, let's also have a feeling that these people who do this job really need to stand still and not really that price of working consciously at the price of cutting grass in some of our beautiful gardens in our cities and municipalities. And I hope, yes, that we will achieve this consensus and the HSLS Club supports both the report and this bill's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85802	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85803	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting a lapus, probably a failure from a respected colleague, Kramaric, who said that only in Europe is Croatia under mines. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Macedonia are under mines. So it's just about one slip so you don't get it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85804	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first is Mr. Representative...... Nothing's written. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was written by Davorko Vidovic and finished. And on behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Jadran, Davorko Vidovic. Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85805	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I certainly won't use the time to discuss it entirely simply because it comes to me listening to our discussions from year to year about the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan, I think of a figure there in 2047, let's say somebody gets to know how to solve, complete mine problem in Croatia, and then learns what was said and what was done in some distant past and gets to the bottom of these discussions from 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and so on. And every year we actually in, only in shades are we different from what was done and what should possibly be done. I therefore join my colleagues and colleagues who have said that the report and this time the Croatian Mine Action Centre is made according to the rules of the profession very transparently, clearly and that it can of course be supported. But the report itself speaks of something that we are in Croatia when it comes to saying "borgber", "softwerski" and "hardwer" part of computer terminology, have already done what could be done. There is no country in the world that has no mine problem, which would have a better solution to the issue of organisation of demining systems. Which would have had better quality demining tools. So we've developed our own production of our own machines that are sold outside and so on. So that's where the steps have already been made, and probably we are the most developed country in the world, which is burdened with mine problems, and in this sense we represent as a country of example for many who have this problem. We are able to export our knowledge in various mine-related areas right now. But if we have knowledge, if we have technology, if we have therefore the most modern solutions that we lack? And that's why my debate is very short. We lack money to demining Croatia. I'm going to suggest something that I've already proposed for this year's budget. Suggest something for us as a Parliament to adopt as a conclusion. This has nothing to do with the political party, and we do not know which government will be elected in this country in a few months' time, but that as a generation of people responsible for the functioning and future of this country, we make one step and commit ourselves to the conclusion that this Parliament commits every future government to single out a certain percentage of the money from the state demining budget. I'd say that if we said it was 0.4%, 0.4% of the budget would be about 440 million of the budget money this year. That would mean actually doubling now the money that is now, somewhere around 220 million kuna, rising to that 0.4%. Why 0,4? Because I think that money is enough to fully engage the capacities that we have, these 27 demining companies, and that money is spent most on demining operations, most of all. It's a matter of our political will and decision whether we do it or not. Another solution to a serious demining business actually doesn't exist. I do not in any way want to reduce the value of every June and kuna that we receive as a donation especially from international funds, the resources of the states. On the contrary, every kuna that comes here is twice as valuable or is given by people who are not confronted and countries facing a mine problem. However, the fact remains that the gross financial commitments are in the state of Croatia. It happened to us what happened. We are the ones who have to solve this problem and we need to realize that it is the cost and the cost that we will mostly pay. We don't need to shed any illusions that our work is going to be done by someone else. For example, those countries that haven't seen it as still Bosnia and Herzegovina's mine problem will have a problem for who for how many generations. So we'll go with the conclusion, I ask you to support it so that a certain percentage of the state budget is immediately reserved for demining operations. That's the first one. And secondly, the other source of income is donations. Following what is happening in solving the mine problem in Croatia, you have several countries that have shown incredible endurance and help Croatia to solve this problem continuously. I would especially point out the Kingdom of Norway. The Kingdom of Norway, Japan, Luxembourg, these are the countries that give when promoters their size of economic power huge money to Croatia and are very helpful in not only donating funds but also helping us to find quite concrete solutions, technical, technological etc. to improve this whole situation. And, of course, the United States of America, which is actually the largest single donor. I suggest that the Croatian government find a way for these countries, two, three, not to know how many four states to give them special recognition. The peoples of these countries should be thanked for what they have continuously, so it is not some government that is there, but it is a matter of the politics of these countries. And I would be sure to make sure that the highest state recognitions that Croatia can give to these countries for what helps us all these years therefore in continuity. I am saying that especially the Kingdom of Norway is actually great and incredibly engaged in this aid. And a third. It is not quite safe to reject as a possible source of funds and initiatives that are already being discussed with us, which Markov, from HSS, has mentioned now, that we really see whether there are some areas that we could demine by the concession model or the public-private partnership model by renting that space or by renting it to those who would be willing to deminise it and bring it to an economic purpose. This is one dimension we haven't talked about in years, but it would certainly be worth talking about, especially with our expectations of entering the European Union when the value of the land in Croatia will be especially increased, it is quite expected and can be expected at demand and for such land, therefore mine suspected. This mine suspected space polluted with mines is not polluted with anything else, it's a space that 15, 20 years has not been treated with any means, it can also be a basis for... What? ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And to produce healthy food, why not. So this is the possibility I suggest that the government consider it as one of the possible directions to accelerate the solution to the mine problem. As for the draft amendments to the law, I think it certainly is that the proposed amendments are welcome. All that will contribute to increased discipline, increased responsibility for those who do demining work and to eliminate the fear of those who use demining space, fear is therefore welcome. I think these changes to the law are going that way. All that is in the function of increasing the efficiency of demining such as these changes in these articles where the geodetic measurement obligation is passed on to CROMAC which speeds up the process, this practice has now shown also welcome. So here on behalf of the SDP club, I can say that we accept the report and that we support and change the Law on humanitarian demining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85806	Thank you very much. Well, here's to a little comment. In contact with some parliaments, especially with the Norwegian Parliament, it has always been an understanding. Well, then perhaps we could consider, apart from the government doing this to its mechanisms, that we can also talk at parliamentary level, and give appropriate recognitions to those countries that actually show great understanding and interest. So we'll do that, I'll say it like that to the Parliament's presidency as one possibility to present as far as we're concerned as the Parliament. Thank you very much. We're moving on to a special debate, actually an individual debate. The first is Mr. Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85807	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Just for the introduction, I fully support what the esteemed colleague Vidovic said, with one remark, in some ways the wonders that countries are involved in: Norway, Japan, Japan in large numbers. You often wonder where they come from? They may have had similar problems, and they know how to appreciate the problem. After Norway and Japan, I think there are more, but here's what you mentioned exactly. As the Law on humanitarian demining came into force 14 months ago, a question could possibly be asked what is now changing and supplementing it. Given the real big problem, the big mined or mine suspected surfaces, not a single move towards a faster solution and the monster is not a waste. Someone said speed is a virtue, but no rush. So if then these proposed changes and additions and a little speed up the process of humanitarian demining, I would like to emphasise not to rush at all costs, these changes and additions should be made. It seems to me that they make the law a little bit more elastic in certain provisions. There is no limit to the number of people trained for these jobs. Businesses dealing with these activities should be free of unnecessarily burdening and slowing them down, and those transactions may be carried out by someone else, specifically prescribed in Article 3. Croatian Mine Action Centre. Article 4 provides for a way of education of persons qualified under foreign rules, if the same rules correspond to the education programme in the Republic of Croatia or do not comply. Of course, such a job must be carried out with great responsibility, and therefore regulations on sanctioning possibly unconsciously carried out work. The security of end-users is more than imperative and this does not allow for unprofessional, potentially unprofessional and irresponsible work. Articles 6 and 7 delete the provisions on the rights of members of the family of the dead pyrotechnics to enrol in educational institutions in view of the decision of the Constitutional Court by which the identical provision was deleted from the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This amendment is necessary for the decision of the Constitutional Court, of course it is not a factor in either the rapid or the quality of demining operations. I repeat just for the sake of the enormous need to demining mine suspected areas that will ensure a faster and safer solution to this problem, the changes and additions are welcome and therefore I support the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on humanitarian demining. Mine suspected areas resulting from the war in the Republic of Croatia have 12 counties. Only this information without stating the area under suspicion or other data on mine suspected surfaces speaks enough about what and how much of the problem it is and how responsible, sensitive and certainly extremely dangerous business it is, and a significant factor throughout the problem is also the financial side, i.e. needed on the one hand, and available resources on the other. We see from the report that the implementation of the 2006 plan is about the surface area of 99%. These include areas contracted during the year 96. I think it's good, almost ideally especially when weather conditions are also a factor that determines the possibility of working on the ground, and they, the weather conditions, we can't plan or order. I also know that it's mostly torn surfaces that the whole business can slow down. It's not a simple calculation of so many square meters, so many people times so many days plus money and it's over. It's a little more complicated, and it just has to be respected. Namely, the surfaces that are suspicious or which are mined by characteristics are from an angry stoner, mountain-scared to swamps in a concrete Kopački rit, so that no average can always be taken. From the analysis of the demining area structure and the surfaces searched, it is evident that agricultural 40.2% of the total share prevails, which allows for a return to areas occupied, and agriculture was a basic occupation. The demining plan compared to sources of funding was reached by 86.5%. The state budget in 100% amount, legal persons and bodies of the state administration and local self-government 56, and above that may need to be slightly more imagined, and donation 95%. The funds are within the limits of possibilities. It would certainly be better if they were bigger, but that's the second question. The donations did not fail with regard to the planned and the donors thank you. I think it should be stressed that the cooperation between the Croatian Mine Action Centre and regional regional self-government is of great importance, because at the same level, however, the needs are best known and then priorities. However, misunderstandings may arise when donors are particularly foreign, because they, and in best interest, simply have some of their own criteria that may seem strange and sometimes unacceptable. However, if the Croatian Mine Action Centre is firmly in charge of the process, there is no reason not to, anything can be solved in the best possible way by respecting local self - government suggestions. There's been a constant decline in the victims over the years. No loss of pyrotechnicians was reported in 2006 which confirms their expertise, although surprises are always possible, unfortunately. One person died in 2006, four, and fourteen in 2004. It is evident from the report that in 2006, nearly 500 thousand people went through some kinds of mine danger education and especially important that direct lectures and... listened to 111 thousand 400 children. Surely that results in a fall in the number of casualties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85808	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Topic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85809	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Luka Bebic, Mr. Secretary of State Buconjic, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I would also like to say a few words about these two points that we are discussing today, as the first one on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, with the Final Proposal for the Law as well as on this 2006 Report on operations in the field of demining. First of all, I want to say right at the beginning that I support these amendments to the bill and, of course, I also accept this report which is extremely correct, transparently and I would say, in all aspects of the profession transparently done. First, I'm going to say a few words about the very proposal to amend and supplement the law. As I see the intensity of these amendments and the addition of the law, although it happens in a relatively short time since the law passed before the circus for a year and a half, thanks to the Government which obviously has been sensitised to this problem, so that with these changes it wants to further improve and improve the existing law all with a view to red tape, this process that is relevant to the conditions and methods of obtaining work permits, around these dimensions of the demining area, the question of these qualifications is to align the qualifications of the people who, in the armed forces of Croatia, have passed, or have acquired certain knowledge from this activity as pyrotechnicians, that this can be very good and without great administration of obtaining permits to carry out these activities in companies that are registered for demination, whether companies or crafts. There is, of course, a certain harmonisation of the law with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court, and above all, I am referring to the rights of the family, or the children of the defender, or the victim in this case of pyrotechnicians from enrolment in the education system. And, of course, I welcome it all together. However, I would like to point out once again that the distinguished colleagues have said a lot about this problem and I support it, mostly the discussions were very constructive with a lot of useful and good proposals, but I would like to stress once again the importance of speeding up and speeding up demining for the country of Croatia for three basic reasons. This is the first security reason for our population, but these are mostly the places of the county that the greatest burden of war has suffered, they also have great consequences since the war itself, in this case from the mines that are lagging behind. Then there is the same significant economic reason. My colleagues here have talked a lot about large areas of quality agricultural land that cannot be exploited for economic purposes because it is contaminated as it is mined. Also certain business facilities, here we have now heard the exposure of colleagues that both highways or railways are closing for a certain period of time, so what is not the track along the track, or along the road is not demined. Of course, there is also a question of the echo itself that can reflect Croatia's reputation as a tourist destination. I'm going to give this example that just happened in the Straight Kotars. When a foreign citizen was injured as a hunter in the hunting grounds between Biljan and Smilčić, it must have had a far greater negative effect on reputation indirectly for the consequences of Croatian tourism than it may have been of several significant promotions and performances at tourism fairs from our tourist community, and we all know together how much it costs to promote our tourism through fairs, whether through ordered ads, etc. On the other hand, this political moment should be highlighted in all of this, because when an unsuitable graphite appears in the Ravni Kotars or somewhere all the media, everyone writes about it, but the irritation of the population in the area and their trauma as a consequence of the war are extremely high. Let us only remember the Scabrinja and the death of the Scabrinja, not only how many civilians were killed in the war itself in Škabrinja, but also the population of the returnees also suffered a lot when they returned to their hearths, and it certainly creates a great trauma for that population. However, we are now and this government has done a lot of quiet reintegration and on the return of returnees of Serbian nationality, but I think that this is the same opportunity and that the Ministry of Interior should make some efforts in this direction that people return to Serb nationality returning to these areas, I will say specifically Biljani, Smilcici and these other areas that were on the line of demarcation at the time of the war that many of these returnees certainly know minefields and know mine fields. And I think that option should be used more because we know more than we know the minefields that the Croatian Army has set up, but it is a great unknown and it creates, of course, great costs and a great danger of demining because we do not have plans set up by the aggressor, which the enemy set up at the time of the war. I think that should give an extremely significant attention. I also advocate and join all those who make proposals and advocate for greater demining of these contaminated areas, I reiterate that for the security reasons of the population living in this area because they are precisely the biggest victims of the Homeland War, also for economic reasons, because it is extremely large economic potentials that exceed the sums and values that would be achieved by using this agricultural land than the amount of funds invested in demining, and on the other hand, it should also be taken into account that political dimension that I mentioned. And of course we are an extremely important and recognized tourist destination. It is also important for the reputation of Croatian tourism not to happen to us and not to take place like this, which happened recently in the Ravni Kotari between Biljan and Smiljčić. I'm thanking you for the debate and I'm finishing this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85810	Thank you very much. It is Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85811	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Over the past eight years of working on humanitarian demining operations in the Republic of Croatia has been working on projects to rebuild the war on the affected area, infrastructure, roads, waterway, power lines, houses and gardens, agricultural areas, forests, archaeological sites. During the war in Croatia, about a million mines were used as offensive and defensive weapons. This means that mines were set up by aggressor members of a Serb-cetical unit. And also a very small part, the Croatian Army in defense. Currently, about a thousand 150 are in the area, and they said colleagues, or a thousand 147 square kilometers, are still under mines, about 240 thousand mines. The majority of demining money has been invested by the Republic of Croatia so far. But a significant partner in the demining programme is also the European Union, and also in the 2006 report, we have seen which countries are helping us, and in that it certainly goes to the benefit of what we want to clean up our entire country as soon as possible, or all the counties that are under mines. Mine-cleaning is a very delicate and dangerous job that can only be done under certain circumstances, and every single moment of insufficient concentration is paid by life. Since 1991, 48 people have been killed on these jobs, but mines are not the only ones who are professionally involved. During 2004, 14 people died from mines. Last year, 2005. Four, and 13 were wounded. The dangers of mines are particularly exposed to children and therefore the programmes and education of children are an integral part of the fight against mines. Croatia has so far financed the largest part of its demining programme itself, and according to very ambitious plans from the programme by 2009 the country should be completely cleared from mines. At least another 300m euros will be needed for this. Speculation whether or not we will end it would not speculate, but surely the Croatian government will do everything possible to make Croatia mineless as soon as possible. But, however... If she were not concerned and did not take care of the mined areas of the Republic of Croatia, then the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006 would not be like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I totally accept the report, and that's probably good. Everyone would wish the numbers were different from what they are, but it's always done and can only be done according to possibilities. By humanitarian demining... They were returned to the use of an area of 24 thousand and 782 square kilometers, of which mineding is 9 million and 464 meters square and by searching 15 million, representing 91.8% of the plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Including the area agreed in 2006 the overall achievement of the 2006 plan was 99.1%, which is also to be commended. From the total achievement in 2006, it is necessary to highlight the overall removal of mine risk from the areas of Dubrovnik, Beli Manastir, Ilock, and the municipalities... Over the past year, demining operations, search of the total mine suspected space of the cities of Nin, Vis and Lastov and the National Park "Krk". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that we are not only removing mines at the time of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, but from II. World War I. However, in order to become a clean land without mines as soon as possible, this bill that is before us also contributes to that. However, I will only take a brief look at the law, so I will certainly not comment on and repeat what my colleagues have said, but I am certainly glad that this law regulates the issue of education of persons qualified to carry out demining operations under foreign regulations and regulates the question of recognising the powers of persons who have passed a professional examination based on the rules passed by the defence minister. And surely when we talk only about quantity, we have to mention quality because it's tied to each other. Furthermore, this law, which is good, proposes to mitigate the conditions for granting powers to the head of the workshop, pyrotechnicians and assistant staff. In view of and only of the proposal for this law, I see this morning newspaper articles, given the Constitutional Court's decision of 20 December 2006, which repealed the provision of Article 53. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The same was done in this law, that a provision was deleted according to which members of the family of the deadly pyrotechnics had the advantage of enrolment in educational institutions. I don't know if that's good. In part, provisions laying down the problem of criminal sanctions for pyrotechnicians, labour leaders, assistant employees of pyrotechnicians, supervisors and overseers have also been amended. The colleagues commented on Article 72 of the proposed law in hopes of improving. And I think it would have been that way to remove what's often happened so far, in this time of '98. until 2006. But in the end, I'll just say, I'm glad that since the 22rd of this year, the government is planning to demining about 30 square kilometers of mines polluted and 291 million kuna is secured for demining. The humanitarian demining plan for 2007 has been envisaged, which has been supported today by the Croatian Government, i.e. Yesterday. The maximum amount of demining funds of 164 million kuna are secured in the state budget, companies and bodies of the state administration will allocate 72 million kuna, 54 million kuna is planned out of donations. Priority in demining will have mainly agricultural areas and a significant share will also have infrastructure works, such as demining the path of the future pipeline towards Split. When we see from the draft laws and reports, then we will surely not be skeptical of the time left in front of us to make Croatia a land without mines in the hope that all planned programmes will be implemented in due time. I will not speculate on what it will be in 2008, 2009 in order to achieve this but in the hope that it will soon happen and I accept both the draft law and the 2006 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85812	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85813	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I will talk about the bill that I support from a slightly different perspective. I will talk about setting mines as an element of late and lasting war damage and war crimes that should be linked to this process. You will remember that on 9 October 1999 the State Commission produced a material called War Damage Final Report. The report estimated war damage in the following way, I will say that in billions of euros. Material damage 12 billion 396 million euros. The cost of war in the narrow sense of 8 billion euros is thought of the cost of the purchase of weapons, the care of refugees, exiles, etc. And the third element of lost human lives and human health 10 billion 358 million euros. It totals 30 billion and 785 million euros, just as much as Croatia's external debt today. So when it comes to war damage, I think we should create an ad hoc commission that would restore the work on war damage in the context of new events. The first of these events is one element of the forgotten Croatian tragic and positive history on which we ourselves were warned yesterday by a letter written by Zoran Shanghai, a graduate lawyer from one of the Serbian concentration camps in Serbia. I am particularly pleased that one group of prisoners of these camps in which counterpart Petar Mlinarić was also a great Croatian hero and many other people realized that they had to come up with the meaning of their own sacrifice themselves and point out that the victim of the Croatian public means not only to the Croatian public but also to the pragmatic sense that he is showing sincere and serious attention to our main state attorney whom I call on this route to no longer be visited by public forces and overs, not to go to concerts, parties, not to associate with the owners of the weekly organisations, but to concentrate his attention on what are the basic problems of Croatian society, how to banish the top of the criminal Yugoslav People's Army at the head of Veljko Kadjevic, how in these criminal proceedings to involve the international community, how perhaps by the example of Russell's court to establish a Croatian and Vukovar court who would have the power of moral judgments, who would be the people who would be involved in their membership, who were the members of the Croatians, who were the members of the Croatians, who were the victims of the victims of the Croatians and the Croatians, who were the Croatians, who were particularly. David Rif son of Susan Sontag, then Mr. Norman Cigar, Mr. Stjepan Gabriel Meštrovic, famous French intellectuals who sided with the victims because in the new contexts it can be observed differently that part of the war tragedies that seemed less important when the tanks progressed, when people were killed, when women were raped not because they were women but because they were Croats, which were Bosniaks, which were other and different. In subsequent interpretations of history and repairing your own conscience, all of this is intended to be interpreted differently. I would therefore like dear gentlemen to make and amend the Penal Code. As some women have fought to enter the crimes of rape as a war crime in the Security Council resolution first and then into the Hague court's criminal law, so in Croatian legislation, but also in international law, wild mine-setting should be treated as the most serious form of war crime against civilians. As far as demining me is concerned, there's been one big nightmare that's been killing me for years, just like all of you. It's an estradisation of the phenomenon of demining. This year we had a handsome action called "The Square of Peace", but if you look at what profits are derived from these actions, they are not profits of raising people's awareness of the tragedy of mine victims, nor are they directed so seriously towards turning their attention to people who put their lives on a daily basis for various reasons, because of their professional conscience, often because of extreme poverty. They have no other way out, so they have to demine under imperfect conditions. Large profits are of a political nature, an estranged nature. This is usually carried by Croatian television two, three now, there appear estradious artists, president of the state, ministers, different people. If you are watching ex post this footage is a video that is not much different from the footage of the celebration at Ban Jelačić Square after the victory of Janica Kostelic and the handball player at the World Cup. And that's why it's a delusion in the Croatian public that it's less about, more about show business, that it's about something that's not so risky, so bloody, so dangerous. So I don't like to talk to elevated emotions, but I think this law is a good reason to finally start in Croatia to seriously think about what can be done not to come in a position where each of us felt before last night when he looked at the one for the Croatian people, for Croatian defenders humiliating the movie about Carly del Ponte. Because there, Nikki Forom, who played tennis with me, had two beautiful children and was involved in the breeding of dogs that he sold on the Zagreb market, explores himself that Croatia gave him much more than he expected. That's what counselor Carla del Ponte says. It's serious stuff, and that's why I'd ask for serious access. Croatia has a large mass of friends on its side. So I'm going to say something that might, and that's what I'm going to end up with, and I shouldn't say it. '93. The year on the initiative of us few magnificent Albert Wolschteter launched an action in Wall Street Journal signed by over 130 prominent people headed by Elly Wiesel, with Margaret Thatcher, with Nobels and other people, with two basic demands. The first request was the abolition of the embargo on the victims of aggression, so to Croats and Bosniaks. The second was the requirement of military intervention against Serbia-Montenegro. I renewed that initiative 15 days ago. I will try to get these same people to sign a protest request against a scandalous ruling by the Court of Justice in The Hague that admits there was genocide in Srebrenica, which means in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that means in Vukovar, and that no one is responsible for the genocide. I hope so, and I'm almost certain that the honorable people will sign it, that we'll have enough energy to publish it in the Wall Street Journal, and this time not as an open letter, and that was... but an open letter to the Secretary General of the United Nations, which requires two things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Persecuting the perpetrator of genocide. And secondly, the abolition of Republika Srpska as a consequence of a genocide project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85814	Thank you very much. So the debate was still wider than the agenda point. Well... We have three replicas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The first is Mr. Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Letica, I fully support what you've said. And that's why I'm taking the opportunity to ask you and all of us here. These days, it was possible to read in the press that just some of these victims, but actual victims, campers sell land from the Shepherds as souvenirs. They sell the land of the Shepherd as a souvenir. The comments are terrible at it. I've spoken to the X representatives of the associations, etc., so I'm finally giving my opinion. And about the other campers from this High House I'll tell you... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85816	The answer is Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85817	Once again, I thank you publicly for carrying out my debate that went a little off topic. But in relation to Mr. Stengl's question, it is a tragedy for all warriors to be brought into such a position. I was in Washington, New York, in San Francisco watching Vietnamese, Cambodian fighters in similar positions. So these people need their dignity back. I will not tell you how much it is, and I have a very precise analysis of another element as much as there are people in Croatia at this time who are burdening the Croatian state budget, who have come to pensions and disability and pensions based on full employment, there are 175 thousand from different works, from different armies. Each year, the Croatian state budget costs almost a billion euros. My hope is that your son, Mr. Stengl, who is interested, a brilliant young lawyer and a lawyer who will specialize, I hope for this subject and in the perspective of becoming a confidant of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85818	Replica, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Letica, I wouldn't have anything to add to what you said because I agree with everything. But perhaps I should warn you of some more things, so you, on your committee, take it out on my line. In fact, we Croats are known for being weak in memory, and we forget quickly. You mentioned Veljko Kadijević and his click here, so you also talked about the subsequent repair of history, etc. Unfortunately, today when we talk about criminals, we are not talking about criminals living in Croatia today, these are prominent Croatian Chetniks. The prominent Croatian Chetniks who drove the Croats to minefields. These distinguished Croatian Chetniks are also dicked with the titles of doctors, psychiatrists, etc., etc. On the other hand, we are not talking about those who defended the Chetnic crimes that interpreted Sanu in Croatia in the 1990s, and Sanjuy was the objectors for all the Chetnic crimes that were committed in Croatia. These prominent Chetnik defenders said in the 1990s that more than 11,000 Serb non-monetaries were baptized in Croatia, which is untrue. And today, when they are warned about it, you are a fascist, immediately you are an enemy, etc., etc. So we need to clear up with all the crimes that took place in Croatia, and I don't want to send these distinguished Croatian Chetniks to the minefield, but I would just show them gentlemen these are your works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85820	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85821	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85822	... beyond the agenda. [[Specially enabled.]] The answer to this replica, Mr. Agent Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85823	One problem is international law, it is because the crimes that were punishable in Nuremberg were not punishable in the aggression against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the International Court's statute in The Hague. The first is a crime against peace and the second is a crime of aggression. The other day in my private letter to Tony Lloyd, I pointed to these two major crimes. Therefore, the problem is Croatia how and how to find the mechanism to bring JNA first and foremost to The Hague in one way or another. Then the context of this work of my colleague Loncar is changing significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85824	Thank you very much. It's about demining, humanitarian demining. Just enough for us to... They did, they did, they did, they did, they did, they did, they did, they did, they did, they [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we're not talking here, we're not investigating who was setting it up, but how do we get rid of it? Well, here I am, there's a replica and Mr. Pero Kovacevic is it? [[Intruder: Well mines are the consequence and the cause is Chetniks.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85825	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow Letica is right and is right when she says that Croatia has friends out there but that friends can help Croatia should do what we have advocated together. .... /The speaker doesn't understand./...the archive and registration material to process, create collections and this is the form of promoting truth about the Homeland War. Because the Spanish case also speaks about the international community's relationship to Croatia. We also know that in Croatia's genocide suit, this is the problem of the camp even though the documentation today exists, the Ministry of Defence has not been used and in the lawsuit processed properly. And now let's get back to this part. You're right, and there's a big problem going on, and that's because people can't wait 46 years how long it's going to take for this dynamic to demine everything. People begin to demining their own agricultural areas, their agricultural land, and that is the possibility that even more unfortunately people get hurt and we have seen it now that even the criminally punished people who went into demining themselves are not allowed. You're the same ones that are... They actually promote themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They promote themselves because it's not the huge money they collect. Croatia means it takes a little less than 11 billion kuna to mine these 1147km. So let's move out of the budget and the second, and let's not let someone advertise on the humanitarian team because it's not the point of showing up there just to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85826	Mr. Representative's response, Mr. Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85827	Here we are closer to a really specific problem. I also think that the 2008 budget needs a little different thinking and an absolute priority to give this problem. As far as I'm concerned, I would also introduce a tax of 1 to the construction of bridges in Croatia since the bridge lobby is so powerful that we will build another 500 of these bridges. Therefore, with only one percent, we would very quickly demining Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85828	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining as well as the report on the implementation of the Law. I must say that there are certain things that are necessary to amend only the existing law that began to apply on 5 January 2006. It identified shortcomings that needed to be corrected and needed to be corrected. When I listened to my colleagues discuss this point of demining clearly, I must say that there really are causal and consequential links between aggression and today's demining. There are also those who are responsible for sowing mines across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and they are in most of the aggressors. Most of them emigrated and abolized. I think that they could help most through demining and that by 2010 Croatia could be clean from mines if it showed its cards how they were shining mines or if they were self-involved in demining. Then Croatia would certainly be clean by 2010. But I want to say about the law, I want to say about the law to change certain things regarding geodetic measurements that have so far been the necessity of performers. It will now be the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which we have heard has been trained professionally, because it is probably the head of the SDP candidate and he is the professional person who runs the Croatian Mine Action Centre throughout this period, and it is probably the person who has no other replacement or match. Which has certain resources and probably through the report we'll see what those funds are over a year. We hope that they could really help other countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably in all other countries, so that demining can be rushed there and that quality and expertise can be carried out. But I believe that they are also the result of those internationals, that they are the result of international demining debates that have brought about those famous posters with mine victims from Republika Srpska from Banja Luka. They are probably the same ones who only advocate their deaths while forgetting probably and not too much interest and concern for Croatian casualties. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, a provision has been written that provides for the authorised and legal person and craftsman to carry out search and demining tasks only with the capacities declared in the tender documentation. I mean it was, it was also a failure that shouldn't have happened because in the course of demining a man gets the delivery of machines, detectors, dogs or who knows which of the equipment and I think it's quite logical to continue to be used in a company that is actually in the Republic of Croatia, we have them you will hear them through the report, how much? 28. The demining companies that compete and which can cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia have capacities that could certainly be done very quickly only if there were funds and indeed in order to achieve 2010 Croatia without mines can do business. The Law also regulates the issue of education of persons trained to carry out demining operations, so the rules recognise the powers of persons who have passed a professional examination by virtue of the rules adopted by the defence minister. So that more people can be those developed Croatian defenders, those who no longer have and may not meet the conditions of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Interior, can, and are trained in demining activities and thus ensure their existence. There are also changes in the law that talk about, and it is proposed to apply the conditions for granting powers to the head of the workshop, the pyrotechnics and the assistant employee. It is thus necessary to amend Article 34(2), subparagraph 3, that only criminal offences that are being prosecuted under official duty are obstacles to the granting of powers. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the provision of Article 53 has also been repealed. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This was done by the Constitutional Court only for the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. Yeah, for the law that makes the victims of war and porn, that's it. Partisan victims and victims of the Partisan war for their privileges are still worth it. This was not questioned by the Constitutional Court because none of us dared to write to the Constitutional Court in order to reconsider these other provisions that stand in the same law that enable these same children or descendants or themselves to be educated under privileged conditions and never to question the very critical issue that the Constitutional Court has annulled by its decision. I would like to say that these amendments and additions to the law propose to amend the existing legal provision which prescribes that a safeguard measure for the prohibition of the exercise of activity may be... irrespective of the time period during which the infringement has been repeated in a way to limit it to a one-year period, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've seen and I've had opportunities to talk to people who are company leaders or supervisors in companies or pyrotechnics to get them between these twenty-eight or more companies they have, to bribe them from competing companies, so by throwing that rusty ammunition that they pulled out of the basement somewhere in their field, an era of record that more or more actually reported infractions didn't demining them even though they did it qualityly and couldn't continue to do their job, so we also welcome these amendments to the laws that went towards it. But there is still a need to find out about any such detail and the record should be carried out and criminally processed to see where it's from and how long it's been on that plot, because there are really those who plant each other just for market competition and for success in getting jobs. Here's how much I'd like to talk about these changes to the law. We welcome them and they will surely contribute to a better way of achieving humanitarian demining. We also welcome the amendment sent by the Committee on Legislatives. It is absolutely referring to that infringement proceedings are deleted from Article 72(1) of this Act. When we talk about realisation and the report on humanitarian demining for 2006 it is clear that the objectives for that year are achieved in one good ratio of 90 and some percent of the achievement of the projected demining through the counties of ours clearly state that what is planned has been achieved. But we can't be as happy with that as we've heard and it's visible from this report how much more to mine and really need to come up with additional solutions as well as these humanitarian actions we welcome. If all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a certain income made an action once a year, a lot more square meters and miles would certainly be demining. However, it should continue to work intensively to include both state-owned companies and ministries with as much resources as possible to demining the territory of the Republic of Croatia as quickly as possible and towards both economic, economic and economic, and agricultural progress and capacity as possible. I noticed there's something I've been hearing these days that there's no industrial zone in Osijek, etc. But here it clearly says that setting mines... industrial zone in the city of Osijek,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area in the town of Vinkovci but this county of Osijek-Baranja probably missed and did not work intensively to demining the area where their industrial zone should be, so I wanted to warn myself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We welcome that from the overall achievement in 2006 it is necessary to highlight the overall removal of mine risk from the areas of Dubrovnik, Beli Manastir, Ilok and Cemeljci municipalities. Over the past year, operations have been arranged to demining and searching the total mine suspected area of the cities of Mlin, Visa and Lastov and Krka National Park, the mine threat has been removed from the area of possible individual and mass graves of aggression victims in the Republic of Croatia. All that says, we have these four counties that have gone far with the demining space and we welcome it. I would just like to point out that of these 28 companies there are really quality companies, there are a lot of new machines, new technologies and achievements that will certainly be used in the coming years, and I believe that there will be opportunities and resources to demining Croatia by 2010 and go and these spaces will be in function and economic progress and development, and economic gains throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85830	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've had this whole day's debate very correct. There is no party that has not supported these plans and amendments to the law. And I really believe that we're all into it because here the very word humanitarian that is used shows that we're all for it, so human beings don't need to be a member of this party or someone else, it's really in place to talk here. If I understood correctly, Mr Djakic said that he had no intention of counting it, but that I consider that everyone here should be on the same line as we discussed during the day. That's how it is, if I may add it a little bit. But here's three replicas that I'm also asking you to be within what's being said. The first replica is Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I hope you will allow me a replica on the subject of those who have sown mines, although this seems to be a broader context to speak exclusively of the consequences, the victims that happen every day, the victims who unfortunately will happen in the future and forget about the causes and consequences of this debate are incomplete. And that's why I don't think it's really an exaggeration, it's not getting out of context if we say just one sentence that those who have sown mines, who have acted inhumanely, are irresponsibly sunbathing in Florida today and those who have suffered or gone, or are today victims, or are somewhere in prison. I think the man who started the mine shine, who started the war, who was responsible for all these tragedies, has never formally responded to anyone, and I think that this brief comment and a brief replica is an integral part of a broader view of the consequences we face without warning of these causes, I don't think we're making this debate whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85832	He's pretending that we need to discuss it, but let's stay within what's the agenda point, and we have a second chance of discussing some things, and we'll discuss it. Here's a reply to the replica Mr. Josip Djakic has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85833	Mr. Vice President, it is necessary to say that for those who do not know, and I am one of the victims of these very cowardly mines, these very sowings, these very plantings, and I have not experienced the satisfaction that they, even though we know the name and last name they have set, have not responded today and have not been sanctioned by the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia. With this aspect, I have to talk about how those who have sown deserve it, those who cowardly bribed the Croatian people to suffer on these mines, as well as the Croatian military, as well as Croatian civilians. I can conclude that those who sow themselves once unconsciously intertwined with the politics of the great Serbian idea are the victims of these mines. And so I want to calm down the tensions that they should also ask themselves that today if they have plans to bring them, to hand them over to the MUP, to CROMAC, to anyone, to make it as effective as possible, the faster the demining of these fields so that they themselves would not be victims in those same fields as returnees. But they also had one legal obligation even though they... of all the things they did in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia to at least do so much against those who ordered it, to at least testify and say it was inhumane. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85834	Thank you very much. Of course, we all support that. We also have a replica of Mr. Eve Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85835	Comrade Djakic, you said Croatia without mines until 2010. I think it's in everyone's best interest and we all want it, and then you're kind of romantically saying that it would be good for all those who have sown and mines to tell where those mines are and to show those cards. My colleague Djakic's romance is one thing, and reality is another. Let me remind you that those who were shining mines in '91. years would shine them even today. Evidence of this is also the recent visitation on Croatian television by two prominent Croatian Chetniks who have been appalled and on the news issue one of these Chetniks is responding to do the same thing today as he did in '91. A year. E co-worker Djakic, that's a Croatian reality. And finally let me tell you both to you and to all the faithless Toms this and remember this. No one in civilization's history has ever been able to tame a fox to keep it from fishing for chickens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85836	The answer, Mr. Djakic, is who I support in that, even if it is romantic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85837	Mr. Vice President, I have to replicate here since I'm really not an unfaithful Tom. I am one of those who believe also that they would shine again, but in a much smaller number, because there are many fewer who respect the Republic of Croatia, its laws, its constitution, flag and coat of arms. Many fewer people today want to live in Croatia, so they do not have a chance to cross Croatian borders and to sow again. ... I'm not an unfaithful Tom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to stress that also by referring to you with a reply to the replica, I have watched a degutant show on Croatian television when two Chetniks from Belgrade tell the Croatian general what he is saying. And this enables Croatian television to raise to such a level of viewing and enables them today in a free and independent state through public Croatian television to refer threats to Croatian generals as well. Then how do you think the ones you're talking about are just writing charges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85838	Ali. Yeah, well, let's not spread the debate, please. I am, if I may say so, agreeing with Mr. Djakic that he needs to be wider and that he should be romantic in the sense of let's... Some things we do for the future, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, let's not, they're not representatives if two people say something, we can't generalize it, because if we did that, then nothing would ever end in this world. It would happen again. ... They're fine, but let's not spread it, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This what. We've got one more, we've got one more replica and one more correction. Please let's get this over with. Mr. Kovacevic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85839	Well, very classy, Mr. Lonchar took my word for it. Namely, those who have sown mines in Croatia are only now on the offensive. They're moving again these parts of Mr. Djakic's speech and if you take that meeting in Sheraton where they came to tell us the truth about the Homeland War, and that's all the consequences that we, our competent bodies don't do what we should do and we allow... Strbec, his contemporaries are making the truth about the Homeland War and as such present it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can't exactly keep our mouths shut no matter what you think. We have to tell what's true and we have to say that this team agrees again either through various associations, we've seen what Puhovski said about members of the misery of love. Well, that's exactly imported. Then we have a statement from Mr. Milorad as he jumps right into those things. Listen, we can't keep our mouths shut about this, and he's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85840	Please, it's not this part of the agenda about who's silent. Don't shut up, we want to end this agenda item in this agenda. Let's not people, there's nothing we can't spread to everything, and then if that's the case, we won't finish a single item of the agenda because we'll always open new areas. I'm not disputing her from that truth that you're talking about, but it's not here. Here, please, Mr. Djakic, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85841	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will be specific, I will be concrete in reply to the replica and I will say that these are specific counties in which this happened and from this place in order to report demining I call on the citizens of these counties who have knowledge to file criminal charges against those who have sown these mines, and this is in Licko-Senjska, Sisak-Moslavina, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Zadar, Karlovac, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Požega, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Brod-Posavina and Virovitical-Podravska. These are all the counties where mines are lit up, with a hand and a hat, and everyone knows at least someone who commanded such a glow of mines, and I therefore agree with you that we are romantics who have not responded in time or in time, but today we still have time to do so and to put everyone in front of them in front of justice and to respond legally and materially to everything Mr. Loncar said, as much as it is in the numbers of money, that it is a set or Mr. Letica, that it is the entire external debt of the Republic of Croatia, someone has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85842	Thank you very much. We're talking about how we're gonna fix the law. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85843	First of all, I should like to thank you, Mr Vice President, for warning by your comment that the entirely unnecessary partying of fellow Djakic in a debate in which we agree consensually that the problem should be resolved, we should look for a way to solve it. I must correct my colleague's incorrect claim that the current director of CROMAC is Mr... to God's SDP man. [[You don't understand.]] It's the military commander of the 103rd brigade, the man who was the assistant economy minister in HDZ's government. So a person who is as impartial as I know it and who has nothing to do with it, so there's no need to reduce or question the quality work of CROMAC by bringing a leading man into any way in connection with any of the political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85844	Well, I don't think we should mention at all who the party is if it works on that job normally and quality, that's what I said before. Thank you. We still have two on this agenda point, then we have another short end of the agenda, so hopefully we'll finish. Mrs. Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Mine Action, with the Final Proposal of the Law, because the implementation of the law over a year has seen shortcomings that need to be corrected in order to improve the performance and security of human demining operations, and in order to ensure the safety of citizens in the Republic of Croatia fully systematically and as quickly as possible to demin the entire war on the affected area. The proposal for a human demining law aims to make demining operations more effective in a way that demining companies do not burden administrative obligations. The proposed law should allow for the conduct of acts of pyrotechnicians and persons who have committed crimes such as slander or insults under Article 5 of the Law, as referred to in Article 34 of the Old Law. I also support that those who are irresponsiblely and unprofessionally doing the job so that it can be immediately removed from the workshop or shut down for a certain period of time. I also support the problem of education of people trained in demining activities. On the other parts of the law, I will not repeat my colleague Djakic said, so I accept in that part of his debate. I also accept the report on the implementation of the human demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006. The Croatian government has fulfilled its legal obligation. Last year, there was a further reduction in incidents and the number of victims, especially the number of fatalities compared to previous years. A colleague, Stengl, has already pointed out, but has not been burned again, that in 2005, we had 4 fatalities, in 2006 one, and in the recent 2004 as many as 14 fatalities. We must not reconcile with the current demining dynamics and more resources should be provided in order to complete the demining work within a reasonable period, and the political activities of the Croatian Government also have the plans of the mined Croatian space to facilitate the work of humanitarian demining. In Požega-Slavon County, the human demining plan of the county was achieved with 56.2% but contracts were signed at the end of last year for another 329km whose realization is expected in the first part of this year. I would also mention here that the war damage of Požega-Slavon County is 5.5 billion kuna. Only for comparison of the town of Pakrac is 65km of mine suspected area, so far only 10km has been demined, which if it continues with such dynamics will take 30 years until the demining of the area of the town of Pakrac. I therefore believe that in the Republic of Croatia's budget, funds should be increased to speed up demining dynamics and not to have new deadly citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and demining mine suspected areas in Slavonia will also allow for its more significant economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85846	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in my debate, I will refer only to the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2006. Of course, like every time we discuss reports, I always say that the report should not be looked at in technical terms. The report contains facts, and these facts actually tell us about the situation in the area in which the report relates. And when we surface-read the report, if we were to stay only at the present moment then I believe it personally and feel certain satisfaction, because the report tells us that 91.8% of the planned surfaces were made in 2006 which is about 100%, although of course there would be room to ask a question that is not 100%. But when we look at the scale of this implementation of the plan by county, then we see a certain inequality. So, for example, County of the Ship-Posavina has an 80.4% implementation plan, while Požeško-Slavon County colleague said 56.2% just before, and indeed, the report contained different data. In one place, it is said that 56.2% is achieved and another is said to be the realization of 76%. At this point, I don't care if it's 76 or 56% because it's an irrefutable fact that the plan hasn't been implemented. I have to ask myself this time in County, which is why, year after year, this demining plan in the County of the Ship-Posavina is not coming true. Not long ago, the County of Brod-Posavina brought it, the County Assembly also reached certain conclusions. We were outraged by the unrealization of the demining plan. And then the conclusion required the appointment of Commissioners to deal exclusively with the demining issue of the County of the Ship-Posavina. But here it is again only 80.4%. So now we have on one side that satisfaction, which is that the plan is realized by 91.8% at Croatia level. However, when we put this in the context of the overall problem, and after this satisfactory information we learn that demining in the Republic of Croatia will take 46 years, then there is no satisfaction. There can't be that pleasure, because we see it in the long run. Not just in the short term, but in the long term. If we look at the structure of demining areas, we'll see that there are gardens, agricultural land, forests, infrastructures. Of course, demining priorities were really gardens. However, after the job is done, and I hope that this job is finished, the second priority must be agricultural land. Especially in my region where agricultural land is the basis of life and perspective of both family, individual and whole region. If I remember that this process and the process of cleaning up these dangerous assets will last 46 years, then I wonder what that means for my region? After everything that's happened since '90. And to this day, we only have the opportunity to rely on our own strengths and rely on the natural resources that exist there. The basic natural resource is agricultural land. We don't want to get away from it, and we can't get away from it. After privatization reduced us to almost nothing more than industry, when the army of unemployed returned to our homes on land from where they all came from, so we need to take advantage of it. In addition, we have one part of the population, a critical part of the population, these are peasants. And bearing in mind the entry into the European Union, it is of course our imperative to adapt our peasants to the market conditions of business in accordance with European Union regulations. In order to surround the family economy, which is a fundamental assumption of the competitiveness of Croatian peasants, we have passed the Law on Agricultural Land and the availability of agricultural land. However, even then, we knew that one big and serious problem was mine pollution and mine-explosive devices. We expected not only that the process of available agricultural land would not be stopped. We expected the demining dynamics to be faster, because without it, there is no rounding of the family economy. Without rounding up the family economy, there is no competitiveness on the European market. Without exploiting the natural potentials and resources we have, there is no economic progress for our region. In addition to the primary agricultural production that is not possible if the land is not free from mines and mine-explosive devices, of course there is not enough primary production. We can't count then, nor can we count on the creation of the food industry that we need. Of course, by this example, I would like to point out the need for priorities of demining agricultural land, although we are very late. Well, it is clear to us that we have always been at the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and when we discussed the plan, it prevailed that there is no funds for this purpose. If we look at the structure of our state budget, if we look at the structure of the spending of that state budget, we'll see that there are funds. It's only a matter of priorities that we've identified as a priority. I think the priority must be to give life to a whole region. So not only is this important and significant from the aspect of economic development. It's also important for the rest of the population in these areas. Three categories of areas of special state concern have been introduced. The third category includes areas with difficult management conditions. Well, that law wasn't passed by heart, that law wasn't passed without a basis. The basis is, among other things, what I was saying, but also in the fact that in these areas it is far more difficult to live than in all other areas, especially when we are aware that these mines and these explosive assets are expecting us at every turn. We gave people certain privileges to keep them in that area. But that enthusiasm has its end, too. And I'm afraid by knowing that 46 years will still threaten us, we'll still be watched death at every step, to lead to, for example, a generation of Slavonski Brod going to study in Zagreb, 320 of them, you know how many have returned to Slavonia? Three. And if only three of that generation came back, and it's only one year, it shows that we are actually still poor in our region. We stay humanely impoverished, which is ultimately natural, because people go where they are more comfortable with life, people go where they have the possibility of employment. And this demining dynamic doesn't promise us. He doesn't promise us employment in either primary agricultural production, and he doesn't promise us employment in the food industry either. And just in order to do that, we need a region where life will be, where there will be souls. Here, these are the reasons why I am not talking about the need for a uniform regional development of all Croatia. These are the reasons why we still need to find the funds. Not find them, but just redistribute them, because they have the means. Let's finally realize that this is a priority in order for this process to end much faster, so that we don't have whole regions that will be abandoned, unused and without a population.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85848	Thank you very much. Final review Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85849	Thank you very much. I have indeed listened to a careful debate and about the proposal for amendments to the Law and on the subject of the report, and I must just say that I am pleased that all MPs have recognised the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law of Purpose and the desire to correct the Law, i.e. that this demining procedure itself is easier, simplified but not at the expense of the security of the job done. I am sure that by this law, if it is adopted, we will make a small contribution to improving this process by actually checking the demands made by Mr Kovacevic in relation to the process of withdrawing the permits provided for by the new law, so that we will certainly arrange for it to be truly that norm and enforceable in life. As for the debate on the 2006 Mine Action Report, I think this really debate, Mrs. Alic, was life-threatening because it indicates how much this problem of mine pollution affects overall life in these areas. It's about areas that have been killed by war in which people have suffered the greatest burden, and victims of the Homeland War, and now this, this fact of mine pollution, makes everyday life more difficult. Surely this dynamic that can be calculated from the means that are separated from the correlation with the area that is polluted cannot satisfy us and we cannot be calm or content with any report that will produce such a conclusion that this process lasts 40 or 45, 6 years. What Mr. Vidovic said, we have a well-developed system. We have what Mr. Djakic said to the good, trained pyrotechnics. We have high-quality companies. We even have manufacturers of good machinery. Therefore, it is clear that we can only solve this problem within a reasonable period of time by providing greater resources for this job because all other preconditions are created. I hope that the fact that the budget has increased by about 26 billion kuna over the last few years will also encourage everyone who decides on the allocation of funds from the State budget to make that redistribution of increased funds in the budget in a way that even significantly higher funds go to this job of demining because it is very, very important for a large number of people in areas that have suffered the most by war. I thank you for this debate. We will also consider, not only considering but also checking this proposal by Mr. Markov, who said that perhaps demining funds move forward through land concessions. We just need to see which area the agricultural land is concerned with and whether there is state agricultural land with which the state can freely dispose. If it is a private agricultural land, unfortunately we cannot apply this model but we will check the areas of the state agricultural land and what are potentially legal restrictions to that land, this land shall be leased or in a multi-year concession without compensation, provided that these, these companies or natural persons who receive that land in the lease or multiannual concession are also demining it. So there were really good constructive proposals. I thank you and we will consider these main proposals and try to use them to speed up this demining process as quickly as possible in order for Croatia to be free of mine within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85850	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Indeed, if we are aware that we are, alone is the fact that we have devoted this whole morning session of the Parliament enough to this topic to speak about it and constructively access all participants, and here is the fact that in one special way the Croatian Parliament is also involved and not only the executive authority on the contribution to it, so here we are, as I said earlier perhaps the Assembly Presidency has some suggestions as well to thank and encourage individual countries and parliaments to help us in this. And keep them there. So this was really a quality debate. Thank you all. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85851	The proposal for a Law on humanitarian demining has been withdrawn by the Government, so we don't vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85924	And we still have one item on the agenda. And that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 649 Proposer is the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85925	Thank you very much. It's really very short. This is about a proposal to amend the State Border Control Act. It is a very interesting issue for Croatia because the Republic of Croatia is in an extremely sensitive geostrategic and political position to cross many routes and organised crime of drug trafficking, smuggling or "traffic" people, and therefore the aim and proposed changes to this law is to ensure greater efficiency in the control and control of the state border. We believe that these proposed solutions are in line with the standards applicable in developed countries not only of the European Union and of the world, and that accepting changes in this form will certainly contribute to better and more effective control and control of the state border. We must also take care that Croatia will become the external border of the European Union in a few years and will surely require Europe to be more effective in controlling and controlling the state border, but I repeat, it is primarily our motive to propose these changes to the security of the Republic of Croatia and to effectively control the state border, regardless of the requirements of other countries, because it is the interest of all of us to be safe and to stop at borders all of those negative trends that may arise. And just for a little while, there may be two of the biggest newspapers in these proposed amendments to the law. The first is the news that air carriers are obliged to deliver to the police a list of passengers so the border police have information about who enters the Republic of Croatia. The second is also the largest newspaper to establish a national information system for managing the state border. The process has already started through the acquisition of equipment at the two border crossings of Pleso and Bajakovo and has already proved that the establishment of a quality information system really provides excellent results and enhances efficiency in the fight against all those attempts to illegally enter the Republic of Croatia. I say the law is short, seemingly simple, but surely if adopted like this, it will provide the Croatian police with additional opportunities to be more effective in controlling and controlling the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85926	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85927	The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 92nd session discussed the issue of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border and, after the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85928	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85929	Dear Mr. Vice President Croatian Democratic Union, the Croatian Democratic Community club absolutely supports the proposal of this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the State Border with the Final Bill on the grounds that Croatia's border is one of the longest in the world when taken according to the number of inhabitants. We have four and a half million inhabitants of the border over 3,000 kilometers. Say Poland has ten times as many inhabitants, and it has a slightly smaller limit than ours. Secondly, the border is something sacred for every country. In order for the state to prove its identity, sovereignty must first of all establish its limit and must say from here to there is our country. And the third is what's important is that in the recent past we've longed hard and had to fight to get to our borders and to be able to control our borders. All this together is an extremely important issue in the Croatian people when we talk about state border surveillance. And now that we're talking specifically about surveillance, then I have to say that two important components are in that surveillance. One is the border crossings that need to be set so that the flow is great, that there is no stalemate, but that the surveillance is really effective and that they and those things that are not suitable that we would not want to enter or leave our country. The second question is how to monitor the border line which is extremely long in Croatia and which should also be protected because the sovereignty and dignity of a country is assessed in this way as safe as the border is. Therefore, for us as a state, it is of paramount importance. And just in this context, they just wanted to say a few words that the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law, because this law is the very important component of the promotion, and the important components point out and makes Croatia's border safer. It is also important that our legislation now comes closer to the European Union legislation, namely the conditions for crossing the state border signed by the Schengen Agreement, which is prescribed by the Schengen Agreement, when it comes to the supervision of the state border. Very often they call it the Schengen border. However, this is not the Schengen Border, which is exclusively the rules on the conditions of the crossing of the state border, i.e. that the countries which are members of the European Union, i.e. the signatories of the Schengen Agreement, must act in order to meet the safety conditions to be done for the benefit of all countries. And what is particularly important is that we as candidates for entry into the European Union, and it is very nearly important that we prepare this for ourselves, first and foremost for ourselves, and then for the sake of the European Union. Because part of our border and this great part of our border will be the external border of the European Union and we will have to adapt to what the interests of the European Union are, but first of all, protect our country. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the adoption of the law and the bill and will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85930	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85931	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. A clear Croatian party club will support the adoption of this law. The issue of border control is a very important issue, given the length of our border on the one hand, and also the geographical position of Croatia. In fact, we are also aware of the real situation that across our country are routes that various smuggling chains related to drugs and narcotics, and unfortunately we are visible to even people. Therefore, this issue is very important and therefore it is important that the Ministry of the Interior continue, above all, with this information connection of all border crossings because it is a very different situation, it is always known who entered the country, i.e. facilitates and works by all other services in terms of preventing illegal entry and then the intelligence community as such in the exchange of data with other intelligence communities can come up with quite real data that will prevent these various smuggling chains that unfortunately cross our country. It will therefore allow both employment and new people, normally. We know that for the former authorities the police were fired, the Croatian defenders although we knew this would come up with this question, that we would have to read completely different borders. But then it was designed, so we're told we don't need so many cops, and then the police fired the Croatian defenders. But a large number of these Croatian defenders promised Minister Mlinaric at the time that he would return them to this day has not been returned. So that part should be realized now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85932	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the debated points will be next week. The session continues on Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. We wish you a pleasant weekend and I'll see you Saturday. Thank you very much. Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-23-0.u85933	What's wrong with you now? Let's do electronics, then. Let's get on with it. But if it's not right now. Let's find the quorum first. You got it. Let's get on with it. ... I'll tell you what, let's just get the quorum on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The result of the quorum? 96. Now we're going to the vote. Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act, P.Z. No. 649. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed law was passed. Madam and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. The consolidated agenda for the 25th session is shared. First item - Proposal for a Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the State of Defence Report in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for the Annual Report was submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The representative of the motion State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mato Raboteg, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
