ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96105	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In accordance with its obligation to execute the Penal Code, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit annual reports on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons, educational institutions to this House of the High. And on this occasion, it seems for the past 2006. Let me just say something, separate from a lot of extensive reports. So when we talk about basic business and organisational structure, basic affairs, the prison system is to enable the execution of the sentence imposed in criminal and criminal proceedings, and the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison, then the enforcement of the detention measure and the enforcement of the educational measure of reference to the educational institution. In our system, this is done in 23 constituencies, 7 penitentiary, 14 prisons and 2 educational brakes. Also within the framework of exactly the prison system, a special and special centre for the education of the Judicial Police, i.e. officials working in the prison system, also operates. In addition to the execution of a prison sentence in our prison system through this administration, the execution of other criminal sanctions is ensured and organised, and this is a work for the general good at large and a conditional conviction with protective supervision. With the question of accommodation capacity, i.e. a sufficient number of especially closed-type penitentiary problems and problems facing our prison system, there are also insufficient numbers of officials and subsistents, although this shortfall has been eliminated for years, however, and in the past year, for the complete completion of the place of all employees and subsistence, 15% of employees and tenants were missing. In the past year, 2,000 802 employees and tenants were systematically systemized, and 2,000 285 were filled, which means 417 were missing or, as I have already said, 15% of the employees and the tenants. This is an important piece of information because it is about ensuring the regular functioning of this system and for the kind of safety aspect that needs to be implemented, it actually ensures that the existing number of employees and subsistence are working overtime. Of course, their additional burden is not good from the aspect of the security of the system on the one hand, on the other hand I have to point out that the calculations if we have to keep the same account, show that due to the payment of overtime, and we have paid the past 3 million kuna more than in 2005 and we have paid almost 15 million kuna in total, in fact it shows ineffective, because hiring new employees and tenants costs our system less. And that's why this year we've opened a tender for 115 new employees, they're actually judicial officers and the procedure is over so hopefully that number will be increased this month. What may be interesting to point out from the aspect of the structure of employees, with the certainly question of those working in the Judicial Police, so ensuring sufficient number of those working on insurance, what is interesting is that in the prison system they are missing, and they are also important medical staff, treatment officers and professional teachers. I have to point out and take the opportunity to say that unfortunately, and the competitions when they're being debated, for example, for medical staff and doctors, unfortunately, there are no people at all or those who don't meet the conditions. In terms of the number of prisoners in our country's prison system, 17,921 prisoners were sentenced last year. If we look at their structure, those who were prisoners were therefore referred to the maintenance of the prison sentence by a powerful verdict were 5 thousand 924, the detainees were 5 thousand 82, and they were punished in a misdemeanor procedure were as many as 4 thousand 380. There is a trend in increasing prison sentences that actually conditions, of course, which is good otherwise, the tightening of the criminal policy, but it has a consequence and, of course, a greater burden on the prison system of particularly closed penitentiary. If we look at the structure of criminal offences, therefore given the type of criminal offence and there are no significant shifts or changes that continue to be sustained by prisoners who committed a crime against property, they participate in a total number of prisoners with approximately 35%, then prisoners who committed a crime against life and the body 21% and prisoners who committed crimes against the values protected by international law are 20%, while the number of prisoners convicted of crimes against sexual freedom is 8%. If we look at the structure of the prisoners in view of the length of the sentence, the largest group of prisoners is about 31%, so almost every third one is the group that maintains a prison sentence of one to three years, followed by those who are destined to support a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years, about 18%. With regard to security measures, therefore, as a measure of corrective action to be taken in accordance with the prison, and in a way that eliminates the causes of criminal acts, every third prisoner, around 32% of them, received some of the security measures. The most common is the mandatory treatment of drug addiction and alcohol. And in the previous point, there was some talk about sexual equality. This is certainly not about sexual equality, but let me say that if we look at the structure of the prisoners in terms of gender, during 2006, there are 840 women in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia, so only 4.7% of the total number were female. As regards the structure of the fines, however, they do not differ significantly from the general structure of the crime, they are most tried for crimes against life and the body and then follow the values protected by international law. Of course, the maintenance of prison sentences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions at all are the response of the state to those who have sinned against our legal system and are therefore punished. However, when they maintain prison sentences, prisoners have certain rights, i.e. they are allowed to be trained professionally during the maintenance of prison sentences, when they get out of prison so that they can actually exercise their civil rights more easily. In the past year, out of the total number of 3 thousand 800 newly admitted prisoners, a thousand 814 had completed high-school crafts school, and a thousand 779 had no interest, from illiterate to unfinished high school. So over the past year, 394 have enrolled them in some form of education within or outside the prison system. With regard to the prisoner's employment, it is their right, not their obligation, but it is always good and desirable for them to be employed while maintaining the prison's term, first to take advantage of some time, second, that they may earn some income, and thirdly, to qualify for some occupations and so that the average number of persons employed in 2006 is increased by 10.8%. With regard to the health care of prisoners, let me just say that during the past year, 121 thousand 985 inspections have been carried out in the prison system, of which more than half of the medical treatments are related to general checks. And then they're specialist services, psychiatry specialist reviews are in second place. As regards the employment of new staff and their education and the provision of accommodation facilities of course for the security of the system, it is also important to supply equipment. Over the past year, 12 new special vehicles and 46 sets of equipment have been purchased for the intervention unit and adequate ammunition and accessories. So it's constantly working on getting such equipment. Finally, it can be said that with what has been extended through previous reports and with the progress made over the past year, as well as the issues that will appear to me in the following reports, so with continued and continuous provision of sufficient accommodation capacity, sufficient staff and their education, the state of security is satisfactory, there have been no special deviations in the system that would say that the system does not work or that, with all these restrictions that exist, the security situation is not satisfactory. However, a trend has been observed to reduce physical conflicts among prisoners as well as the number of refusals to take prison food. That's... hunger strikes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is what's been said about the situation in the penitentiary and prisons for the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96106	Thank you. The board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96107	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State! I also welcome Master Ivan Damjanović, our assistant! And I stress one excellently prepared material in the first row of the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2006, exhaustively written with a lot of data from the beginning, state officials and subsistence, capacities, standards on the conditions of accommodation of prisoners, so that prisoners are classified, detainees, detainees, convicts, breeders, work of prisoners, equipment, security, financial report on business and specific reference to the report by the Ombudsman and the report on the execution of alternative sanctions. What especially needs to be pointed out in this report is that the constant trend is the number of prisoners. Therefore, the obligation to allow all rights of prisoners to be exercised by the prescribed laws is also due to the failure of the posts set out in the Internal Order Regulation. Officials of the prison system did their jobs and jobs out of business hours, and they achieved a large number of excessive hours, as reported in this report. Special attention should be given to the desire for permanent education in all segments of Croatian society and in particular to state administrations, as well as to prison system officials. A permanent education is organised in areas specific to working with prisoners, from the prevention of suicide, communication skills, treatment of prisoners of alcohol and drug addicts, prevention of drug abuse, treatment of PTSD prisoners, prevention of infectious diseases, and therefore it is the state service that needs and this part, although prisoners are also classified in other ways, that the same parts of our society can eventually be socialised in normal life. What is particularly worrying is the capacity and standards of accommodation conditions of prisoners, as the number of prisoners significantly exceeds the legal accommodation capacity under the closed conditions of execution of prison sentences and detention measures. Standards have also been set for us to gain a clear insight into what the penitentiary means, prisons, and educational institutions mean. I believe that this adopted report will also be a clear way of developing and modernising exactly the work in such closed systems, because the structure of the prisoners and according to the security measure speaks of one thorough approach in order to really do everything in order to do that after the penalties have been carried out, after the end of the security measures imposed can indeed function normally in society. In particular, it was also pointed out that during 2006, there were 840 women in the prison system of different formal legal status, representing 4.7% of the total prison population in the reporting year, so gender equality should not always be pursued by force, as has already been said. It is also a special moment to highlight and worry about the state of the prisoners, so the number of health checks in the prison system is very detailed from general examinations, dental examinations, psychiatric examinations, laboratory and other examinations. The number of specialist health checks in public health during 2006 also stands out. Succeeding proceedings against prisoners where complaints are made possible, as well as in any other procedure, that a prisoner under the law has the right to appeal to a judge to execute a decision by the administrator restricting or temporarily denying the rights to a decision on a firm liability and to a decision on compensation for damages. We're talking prisoner transfers, parole and detainees. And therefore, since the quality material is made with a special report on the enforcement of alternative sanctions, and with a view to and on the said Report of the Ombudsman, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96108	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96109	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, gentlemen from... administrations, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The club supports the adoption of the Report on the State and Labour of Penalties, Prisons and Educational Institutions for 2006. According to this material that we got here normally is shown in the introduction of a closed-type penitentiary, semi-closed and open-minded type. Here, here's a penitentiary in Glina and Leprechaun are prisons of a closed type and here it's important to note that the penitentiary in Leprechaun was opened in 1854. I have to say today that the people of Leprechaun aren't happy to have a penitentiary. They'd rather be what was once when Leprechaun was some kind of cultural center where the first high school and first university were founded. But what's there is and they're normally there to work if they have any conditions. It is also said here that the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System, among other things under point 18, says: "execution of criminal and legal sanctions, work for the general good at large and conditional convictions with protective supervision.". I must point out that it's quite weak in attendance, that it's not doing much about it. I know it's a little bit of a problem, because for each such one, it has to be a direct leader designated by the institution, so it has to be a commissioner who sends a report on work, and it's good for the convict and for the institution he works in. I think that should be more judgmental because I think that's what the court should judge, so we should use it more. In particular, all those who have a sentence of up to six months, I think that they could all just work too many prisoners in prison should use this kind of means executing criminal-legal sanctions of work for the general good at large. I think you already have enough of these commissioners, or people who can do that, and there are also some institutions, there are those people who have completed that education and can do that job. I think it should be used as much as possible to make it less crowded in prisons. This is where we keep talking about the lack of personnel in prisons. I don't think it's right to repeat it year after year because there's no reason not to fill out the number of workers in criminal and correctional institutions. First of all, I think of these people who have direct protection. So those who deal with convicts. We have to admit that this work is hard work, that it's an excellent job and that these people have the same frustration sometimes as the convicts themselves. In my view, it should be filled in, that number of employees should be filled in according to all that rules and regulations have been stated, not that we have this great lack of these personnel. It's not clear to me why we can't fill it in and why it keeps repeating it year after year. We have here that permanent training is organized for officials of the prison system in areas specific to working with prisoners. I like that. I like it because these people have to be in permanent education. They need to be constantly educated because there are growing problems in prison systems. First of all, alcohol and drug addicts should be prevented. As far as drugs are concerned, they go to prison in various ways. You have a really weird situation. For example, he sends nuts to prison, pulls out the core inside, puts drugs in there and glues it again. Or recently there was a case that Grandma came to visit her granddaughter and brought drugs inside the cane. So all those who do so must be better and have more hearing about it, and we have to predict more than the prisoners themselves in what way it should be prevented. However, his family would also take care that his family member does not abuse drugs and that he is treated and better. However, you see family members also work on how it should be. Now, accommodation facilities. And last year it was said to be building a prison in Clay, I don't know how far it is and those accommodation facilities are too small. We also have to agree that according to the population, we still have very few prisoners. Some Central European countries have a significantly larger number and we should also expect there to be more of them. For example, the Czech Republic has 160 convicts to 10,000 inhabitants. We have that much smaller number. And therefore, we need to see to equip it. Also, to improve the conditions because everything you're looking for, because you've written here how many square meters a cubic meter needs to be per prisoner and I don't think that's being met and that's a pretty big problem. Now, as far as this work is concerned, I agree that every convict does without distinction what we have today that he doesn't have to work. I mean, I don't know if you should change that law or not because exactly if he does and if he's constantly employed by a team more than you're locked up, I know a special prison in Leprechaun, there's these workshops, industrial plants where you can work, where everyone can work. Therefore, he is allowed if he wants to work. However, I think it might be good to reconsider whether or not it has to work because it would be better to work because then it doesn't think of any other things etc. Here, once again I say we support this report, the report is quality and good. However, it should not be repeated year by year if there are not enough workers, that the capacities are what they are. That should be taken care of. Well, prison is something special after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96110	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop the debate. The debate will continue on this agenda point on Wednesday. And 12 o'clock today's vote. ... I'll tell you everything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to continue these other topics that are going on. Now, at 12 o'clock, let's get ready to vote. Ladies and gentlemen! We continue with a session and debate on the state and operation of penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions for 2006. Resumption of the debate. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96112	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. I was just sad not to have a reporter present, but here we are. So, in the opening statement, the secretary of state said that prison is the response of the state to the perpetrator of the committed socially dangerous act. And from this report, as well as from the report by the attorney general, we can see what that answer is. The feature of our prisons is the re-acceptive or understandable overcrowding, which is evident in the data that last year's fill was 141%. With such overcrowding capacity, it is absolutely certain that safety is questionable, more specifically safety is at stake. It is also certain that human rights of prisoners are violated under these conditions. By reading this report, I recall a visit to a prison in 1995, on which one of my fellow council members of the County Assembly explained that in Croatia prisons will close and collapse as unnecessary because there will be no perpetrator of criminal offences in Croatia. That's when I laughed and said, pal, you're not a little bit of an idealist. There are criminals and criminals everywhere, even in Croatia. By comparing data with data from other countries, we will see that compared to the number of inhabitants, we have fewer perpetrators and fewer perpetrators sentenced to prison. That doesn't mean we have less crime. It's more of a matter of disclosing, revealing the perpetrator, processing and sanctioning. The main perception of citizens is more crime and there is evident dissatisfaction with its detection, processing and sanctioning. If we were to gain better success in revealing and just punishment, the question would be asked, and where would the penitentiary be kept in prison? Prisons are full, and not now all convicts of prison are on trial. The conclusion would be that the state's response to the perpetrators' actions is not appropriate. And if the country's response is inadequate, the sense of the threat of a suspended sentence is lost. We have a threat to the state, but there's a high probability that the threat won't come true. What do we do to make the threat come true? The answer seems to be easy and to be resolved by building additional capacity. However, prior to this response, it is necessary to disclose the reasons for increasing prisoners. Is it because of more effective disclosure, processing and sanctioning of the perpetrators? Or is this the result of a legal regulation that fills the prisons and those who, for their sakes and society as a whole, should be somewhere else, and the purpose of punishment would be achieved? Following such reflection, we come to a part of the report that says, quote: "Of the 2 thousand 430 prisoners who were on trial on 31 December 2006 every 3rd or more precisely 32.8% had a security measure, the most frequent mandatory treatment of drug addiction and mandatory treatment of alcohol. At the end of 2006, a total of 295 prisoners were included in a special programme of treatment for prisoners dependent on psycho-active drugs, of which 209 of them with a stated safety measure of mandatory treatment on addiction, and 86 of the expert team's decision because during the diagnostics, it was found that this number of prisoners abused psycho-active drugs which is linked to their criminal activity." It's a finished quote. For these 86 prisoners who were identified by the expert team as in need of treatment, we do not know if this is the final number, because in the report on the implementation of the national strategy against addiction, we read: "The protocol for testing prisoners to the presence of addiction in the organism was introduced in January 2006. This activity continues to be carried out, but due to a lack of financial resources, the required amount of verified urine control tests on psycho-active substances could not be obtained." It's a finished quote. To assume that such prisoners have much more than depicted, but they cannot be revealed because the state did not provide funds for their discovery. But we return to this third of the total number of prisoners who have been given a mandatory treatment security measure. Most of them committed a property crime to get the drug money. And that's why they're being punished for jail time. Now we're wondering. Are we closing dealers or closing drug addicts? What is the target group of our law enforcement, addicts or drug dealers? Real dealers, those who get rich in health and the lives of young people are never addicts. They deserve the most severe prison sentences, and that's where they belong and that's where they should be. But what about those 33% drug addicts? Are they supposed to be in jail? To answer this question, the question needs to be answered previously, is addiction a disease or a chosen way of life? The profession says that addiction is a disease, and it's a serious disease resulting in criminal acts, and that's mostly property. If it's a disease, then we're wondering if they belong in prison or in treatment? In our opinion, they belong to treatment in specialised treatment communities where psychosocial treatment, rehabilitation and rehabilitation of addicts would be conducted. The rapporteur's representative will tell us that this category of prisoners is being directed to special departments and is going through special treatment programs. The report tells us that only 44% of drug addicts are involved in the treatment joint work. It's only part of those who need help. According to our knowledge, such special departments exist only in the penitentiary in Lephead. We in the report don't see what special treatment programs these are. The report on the implementation of the national strategy against drug abuse says: "In the course of the implementation of the special programme for prisoners of drug addicts in prisons and penitentiaries and breeders to carry out the educational action, officials of treatment departments have continuously organised educational information lectures for prisoners and breeders as part of their treatment groups.". Only from educational and informative lectures is unrealistic to expect the desired result. It is not surprising, therefore, that according to the same report, many studies suggest that drug overdose occurs most frequently during the first few weeks after the release. What's he saying? He's saying that in that category of prisoners, a relapse or a return to drugs was common and along with her and the crime to get the money needed to get the drugs. Why is the relapse so common? Probably because the success of rehab requires the will of an addict rather than coercion. Each coercion leads to resistance to everything and to its own well - being. What should be our goal as a society? IN OUR CROATIA, we should aim to help these people break free of addiction and engage in normal life. It is obvious that the prison system in the withdrawal of addicts is not effective and new solutions need to be sought. The first step in seeking new solutions is to amend the Penal Code which would allow addicts of criminal offences committed for addiction to give alternative punishment the possibility of quitting in specialised treatment communities instead of prisons. So let's get out of here or pick a prison. Other European countries encourage such forms of penalties. Such an amendment of the drug addicts' laws would be subject to a treatment that has a greater likelihood of permanent withdrawal and freed the space for the accommodation of drug dealers and all those who have freely decided to commit a socially dangerous act or a shortened said evil. The report in front of us does not show how many prisoner addicts are represented in these special treatment programmes. If they too are subject to the rule of the prison system that a prisoner can only work if he wants to, then it is to conclude that these are programs without work, and after it is finished, we will have breeders without working habits that we should expect to engage in normal life after maintaining the prison sentence. We don't know if, as part of these programmes, inmates end schools and professional training to be trained to work on their way out. The resociation program is welcome, but it does not yet work and we do not know what results it will get. Therefore, all those shortcomings in the prison system programmes can be replaced by more effective programmes of the therapeutic communities with the purpose of punishment. Furthermore, the report tells us during 2006, there were 803 prisoners of all categories prescribed by Methadon as compared to the previous year, representing an increase of almost 30%. Without a desire to invest in the topic of whether Metadon is being treated or continuing addiction because the topic is also controversial among experts to conclude that drugs are a serious problem in the prison system with which the system is failed. The changes we have made in our debate as well as those we have not been able to indicate because of the limitations of time would lead to a much more successful response from the state to the perpetrator of the committed socially dangerous acts. Therefore this report we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club accept but only as an indication of the necessity of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96113	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96114	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, If opportunities in the pulsar prison are best in Croatia as I heard on one television show from one prisoner, he called it a five-star hotel to some other prisons in Croatia, then indeed the opportunities in Croatian prisons are catastrophic. But on the other hand, prisoners are convicts. They are clearly not prisoners, they cannot be applied I do not know the condition of the Golog Island that reigned thirty or forty years ago, do not give God Jasenovac, Old Gradiška, regardless of what Thompson dedicates to them his verses but our prisons should also not be hotels with five stars. Unfortunately, one good part of those who have five-star hotels when it comes to Croatian opportunities should be in prisons but not because they came to them without money and in our prisons they may be, well, come on, it's not exactly like that, people in general for a thousand or 2,000 euros. Okay, there are also notorious criminals, murderers, war criminals, and there's always no moralizing about the fate of the people who killed, robbed, deprived people of life, etc. But they're clear people, too. And we have to do everything that Mrs. Lalic talked about and that when these people come back from prison, they keep living like people. To be honest, I'd rather have this debate devoted to the retired, whether the mothers of the prisoner will get their pension back, whether the old and new pensioners will equalize themselves than we are now dealing with prisoners. It is clear that opportunities in our prisons must reflect the current opportunities of Croatian society. I object that people in prison have better conditions than our pensioners in nursing homes or students in their settlements. I'm opposed to taking more care of prisoners than nursing homes or hospitals. If we had, a clear standard of one Switzerland, then these opportunities could be very different. So, between standard, "patients" in general hospitals and standards of patients in prisons, under quotes from those "patients", then I'm sure to choose the standard "patients" in general hospitals. I know it's not an opportunistic way to speak this way, but no matter what, I started my speech on these occasions about this pulse prison where this prisoner I had the opportunity to hear said around that there are conditions like in Hilton. If that were the case, maybe the fact that he's there today, Babo from Kladhuda, I don't know how many years ago he's been transferred. Which is, we just have to admit it. There are certain innocent people in prison, but when it comes to Croatia, there are a lot of those who should be in prison who are not in jail and we also know that they are not "innocent". I mean those who stole this country and who today can clearly teach everyone lessons. As far as this report is concerned, let me first mention this information on the other hand, that the sentence imposed on male persons in criminal proceedings for a period of more than six months is carried out in the penitentiary of Glini, Leprechaun and Lipovica, Popovaci, Požega, Turopolje and Valturi. According to the degree of security and freedom of movement of prisoners of the penitentiary in Clay and Leprechaun are closed. In Lipovica and Popovaca, Požega, Turopolje is half-opened and the one in Valtura is open. You know what bothers me about all that? Which is our protection with these prisoners incarcerated, especially in closed institutions is hollow as Swiss cheese. Today in our prisons you can easily get into drugs than on the streets or in particularly popular places where it is otherwise distributed in the vicinity of a school, which is why this criminal repressive apparatus should pay a little more attention. During the time, I don't know, the old Yugoslavians said Lepoglava was a communist university, today our prisons, unfortunately, are institutions that produce even more skilled criminals than those who were there when they entered them. Of course, that may be one tense opinion, but let's look, let's see how quiet that relapse is in Croatia. Clearly, the fundamental problem is, I would say, in all this and state attorneys and judges etc.. If I were right, I may be witnessing this information on page six, that, in a serious violation of the official duties of the prison system officials, a court of officials for the employees of the penitentiary and prison administration of the Ministry of Justice's prison system. During 2006, 33 proceedings against 39 prison system officials were initiated due to a serious violation of official duty. The most procedures were initiated in prison in Split, followed by a prison hospital in Zagreb, a penitentiary in Lepoglav and prisons in Pula, Zagreb and Sisak. And now let's not count how many of these tights, let's call them so, measure. I stand up for it, meaning that when a man goes to prison, that when he does his time, he comes back from that prison as a man who will somehow be able to implement himself in public life. The question is, is that what it is? Unfortunately, it's not always the home. A good part of those who were in power today or yesterday, so for communism they were in prison, I'm surprised they're not a little more sensitive to these opportunities that today, for example, rule in our prisons. I agree, prisoners, clearly should not be seen as someone who is not human, but also in 99% of cases, there are probably people, not likely but certain ones who may need to be pityed for these or those opportunities but are narrow, certainly and guilty. I agree, I don't know, one say former Minister Herak sacrificed that former rule in 2000, he was released, he was freed, he was wronged, and now suddenly nothing. Even Matesha once told me that he himself, as prime minister, did not know about the case, that he would be initiated by the State's Attorney's Office. The question here is who in Croatia has the right to play with people. One who thus interferes with someone's fate would also have to deal with certain sequencings. He could be 100 times a judge if he ruined someone's fate and that judge somehow has to bear, I don't know, some consequences, run out of position, under quotes of titles, and he goes to jail, so let's see who's going to play with someone's fates. Here on page 8 it is said that during 2006 there were 17 thousand 921 prisoners in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia who had the following formal legal status: prisoners, means detainees, detainees, then convicts, educators. But once again there were 17,000 921 prisoners. One significant part of the electorate is in prison. On pages 9 and 10, the prisoners' plates are given according to the types of criminal acts. So, let's say we have this data that we have 517 prisoners against life and body, property of 852, values of protected international rights, right 494, that's probably the consequence, I don't know the recent end of war, sexual freedom, miracle 198, etc. And according to the length of the sentence on Day 31. 12. In 2006, the most prisoners in our prisons were those who endured prison sentences from one year to two years total 487, then those from five to ten years 444, then those from six months to a year 275. According to me, however, in this whole discussion more so that I would just say something about those who are in prison and are drug-related, or what it says here is, the number of drug addicts to types of psychoactive drugs. The total number of prisoners during the year was 1093, detainee 902, misdemeanorally punished by 146, minors 65, prisoners on 31.6., and now I'm not listing all these other data. Now we ask the fundamental question, we know that these are too few in our prisons, but how do these people get back to life, how do they in prison make people, how do they make those who will next day say what they know about their alleged associates with whom they were dealing that heroin around a school, in barracks, on the street, or I don't know where. For example, because of the drugs, this Dom, the public rightly calls us. It calls for executive power. But on the other hand, I don't know a single parent has openly talked about who they are dealing that stuff to their children. I don't know if a prisoner talked about it openly. He'll say that, I've been involved in all this, but that he would then, under the quotes, "issue" the one he was working with, it doesn't usually happen. Why are we keeping our mouths shut? Why are we all keeping our mouths shut? To be honest, I don't know anyone, but I'm calling on people who are facing this problem to talk about it. Let's not always just call the police, let's not always just call politics, and those who know how to shut up. In one word, you need to talk. You have to fight it. But what are we gonna do?- I'm sorry. People get out of jail and then you get the same where they usually go? They're going back to prison again, and in that one interface, they're usually dealing with that drug again, etc. All in all, the conditions in Croatian prisons are not ideal, these conditions should be changed clearly for the better, but they are closed again. It should be built as well as a series of new ones, although I will say that between nursing homes or dorms from prison, you would always give priority to clearly retirement homes, general hospitals, or I don't know about student centres. I dare say that the conditions in Croatian prisons under quotes are "better" than in prisons in the United States, as in many hospitals in Croatia are better and health conditions than in America, but I agree that there is a lot of money to be invested in prisons to get there and those who do not know through the conversion stole this country. But that requires a clear political will. Unfortunately, she's not here. By the way, the faster the authorities change, the more real criminals become protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96115	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96116	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state, respected manager, co-workers and colleagues. The success of a single society's criminal policy is seen above all how its penalty system works. Here is today's report on the state of our penalty system, i.e. about the state of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions. There is no doubt that society defends itself from dangerous actions, from crimes, from crime, and from the way its criminal law is created, or what a particular society considers in its criminal policy, in its criminal policy, which must be the subject of incrimination, i.e. what acts that are particularly dangerous for a society and which society is then eliminated for a certain time, i.e. Puts them in penitentiary rooms, i.e. prisons, i.e. educational institutions. What's alarming about our penitentiary, our prisons, but also the educational facilities? The title of the 5th month of one of our daily newspapers is this: "Awesome in prisons, Strazbourg terrified of the situation in our prisons and penitentiary." In 2003, similar institutions evaluated our end, which was the end of 2003, the finding came early in 2004. Our prison system is then estimated to be in prisons and penitentiary situations, and otherwise we have such a normative, or legal system that can serve as an example to transition countries. That is why many transition countries have also copied, signed our Law on the execution of a prison sentence that was absolutely governed by all European norms and conventions. That is why Croatia received a special recognition. But obviously we don't like it, and then how obviously the practice and the wrong criminal policy that led to the redactation where it was no longer possible to meet these European standards and, instead of strengthening resources and finding new opportunities, this whole mandate of several regarding these things and re-scribing were the headlines of "Croatia's building new prisons". Those were the headlines. And when we see what has been invested, then a little better family, more than a dozen members, invests more in renovating their facility, i.e. to supply their members. You can tell from this report of yours. So there was nothing of these big announcements but that was the answer when the media was particularly sensitive, that is, if something had happened in prisons that would have gone public and upset the public then it would have reacted in such a way. But that kind of reaction doesn't work, so maybe there's a short-term calming public down that everything's gonna be okay, but there's no lasting results. That's what you can see with this report. If we look at a little bit of this annual report that kind of outlines the state of things, but not at all, we need to combine it a little bit with a report filed by a public defender, where for the first time in 2005, where his people stayed for several months in every cell in every prison, in every penitentiary, in every educational institution. We got a comprehensive, extensive report where he found the situation in our prisons was catastrophic. In one sentence, he said and sublimed his findings: under human dignity. In 2006, his report on these issues is like this: the situation has not improved but has deteriorated. That's what the attorney general says. On the basis of a review of all penal institutions, he noted that there was an obvious imbalance between the purpose to be achieved by carrying out the prison sentence and what was really achieved. It is also certain that we will all agree that redistribution is therefore the return of evil because of the evil done is an inevitable ingredient and punishment and punishment, regardless of the fact that it is not referred to as the purpose of the punishment in Article 50. Penalty law. However, the execution of a prison sentence in such a way that prisoners are locked up for 22 hours a day under poor and inappropriate conditions, weak or no working option and the lack of or absence of work by the department is a property of punishment based on absolute theories on the purpose of punishment. about only that punishment is merely the return of evil for evil. So he's just taking revenge. These are quotes. So these aren't my words, these are the quotes of the 2006 staff attorney's report. Therefore, there is no doubt that the basic conditions of the provision of the Penal Code on the purpose of punishment are not respected as well as the basic provision, the introductory provisions of the Penal Code. There's no doubt that re-accountation is something that our general public knows. This also comes from this report. However, it is not only mathematically possible to look at pre-opulation and to say that it is only a larger number of people in a particular prison or penitentiary who reach that percentage up to 174, 180% somewhere. That's exactly the state of things that one serious is, and that's what needs to be seen, a serious security problem on the one hand, and on the other hand, is caused by numerous violations and violations of the rights of prisoners, detainees and convicts. Of course, it should also be noted that the case of Miroslav Cenbauer, who received the dispute before the European Court of Human Rights. Such a dispute would get almost every prisoner or even prisoner to initiate such a dispute. And that's something that's alarming, which we pointed to, but here's nothing that's changed. However, here you are, Mr. Director, perhaps you will be, here you are learning in history that you have reintroduced the night vessels into the Croatian prison system. The night vessels are again, these are the famous statues Cain spoke of, which were once the expression of torture in the Yugoslav case, and today they are because of inappropriate and adequate conditions in prisons have become our reality again. How, then, can we expect the purpose of punishment to be achieved? How can we expect a criminal to turn into a person to be useful to society? Some inappropriate parallels have been made here by colleagues of Cain with the House of Retired and Prisons. I don't know where the association came from. Probably, but I don't think that there's really a need to depolize or politicize here because the prison system always needs more resources than it has been approved. Well, we remember in the last term when we all voted unanimously here to raise funds because also then Croatia was complained about that B wing, and then with common forces, we simply agreed to the government to find the reserve funds and then it was renovated wing B so-called. The star in Lepoglav and so we invested the funds but we also avoided additional trial, lawsuit and what Croatia has to do. Only when he doesn't do it at the right time is it always costs a few times more, and we're embarrassing ourselves without any need at all. Because that's never the kind of means we've been wrong about, and I don't know how we got here. Obviously, that's not some kind of problem because it's not considered to be some kind of political problem, so the government doesn't care much about it. And besides, people are also angry about how they live their ordinary lives so that they can worry and care about something and think about some who deserve to be there. However, the democracy of one system and the first assessment of one country are achieved by its infrastructure, what is visible, but also by visiting prisons, prisons and penitentiaries. So today's state of affairs is that because of lack of space beds are introduced into chapels as well. What is so commendable is wherever we are a few years ago in order to resociate them and help them in every way, so except for the introduction of both soulcare and chapels, there are several rooms arranged for chapels. But here they are today being abolished. Even social rooms are being abolished so that beds can be settled. It's something that's not good. It's something where we can't talk about treatment anymore. Where prison personnel with superhuman abilities are not capable of working with prisoners. So the total prison capacity of 3009 convicts to prison sentences is constantly increasing. In the end, so it was last year, that ceiling was broken. So some managers said that here they were doing everything possible even in these ways. So where they narrowed down that common space so they could frame the prisoners but it's just not possible anymore either. So, I note this case where in Osijek prison, where night vessels have been reintroduced, they are the result of exactly the lack of staff, a huge number of prisoners that cannot be carried out at night. However, what is particularly worrying, apart from this material side, which, to only remember in Osijek, has been converted to 178%, in Split 174%, is an exceptional number of detainees, but this is also a weakness of criminal policy. So what Lalic said, so what is basic, we must, except that Croatia really needs new prisons, but the same prisons should be reserved for those dangerous criminals and how we see by the structure of who is in prison, then we really do according to this younger population, which is the new law, or the amendments of the Penal Code, treat as dealers, are actually victims of real dealers who are not in prisons, who are still the unattainable hands of justice today, who figure out outside as sponsors, as prominent citizens, who belong here. Therefore, the wrong criminal policy has led to a good part of the cause of the catastrophic situation in our penitentiary system. What is particularly worrying about in a situation like this, which is that right now the competitions are open, ads for the manager's posts. But how? Under the amended Penal Code, which is absolutely unacceptable. So it's the opposite of European rules. We are going to Europe tomorrow, we will have to change that Law again and return it to that structure that we established in 2001 by all European criteria because it is impossible for someone from the road to come to us as prison manager. Today these are such criteria that there should be no experience with prisoners. It's against European prison rules. So again, we are talking about political similarities, and the European rules say that a person can do a job that can be devoted, that is, that is, absolutely personal properties tailored to business and whose professional abilities are unquestionable. The consequence of this and this condition is the question of how many suicides we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96118	How many have escaped. Gentlemen, he escaped 76 prisoners, 24.8. One prison escaped, no one answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96119	He ran away. Okay. In 10 and 14 the time has elapsed, it will expire for a while whether to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96120	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm not as qualified in a topic as you are, because you've been in the box communist and you know that from a period of time, from a historical perspective, the situation in prisons is really getting better. Dr. Crescent. Markovic told me that in the '50s, he was one of the first political prisoners, the rate of death in prisons was 50% on the annual level. He told me about an interesting case. In the morning the doctor and prison guard would go on a tour of usually single women and he was from, he had one big crisis, he was sick, he was exhausted and the guard came to him and he seemed to be dead, and he somehow took the last effort of strength, so the doctor said, he didn't seem dead to be alive, and so he survived. It is good that the situation is improved in Croatian prisons. From this report of yours that was written neatly as a state attorney's report. It's the same handwriting. So that's a lot of statistical precision, there's pie and charts and there's a few missing elements, but it's educational. I saw a colleague named Vesna Pusic. I think she stopped by. Ljubo Jurcic is not yet. So in what sense is this report very good? First of all, it shows that criminal behaviour in Croatia is still fantastic in relation to the situation in the United States. The number of prisoners and detainees in Croatia is 10 times smaller than in the United States. However, there are already some trends ahead of us in the years and decades to come. The first is a comforting fact in this report that in the processes of general feminisation of everything and everything still when it comes to criminal behaviour is not fortunately feminisation. There are only 840 women in prisons, which is only 4.7% of the total people in prisons in 2006. However, we must count on the circumstance that this trend will increase in the near future, because the Croatian public encourages aggressive forms of behaviour. You have one absurd situation, let's say that public television has devoted in the last 10 days two prominent shows of "Open" to one violent behavior that has been silenced in civilized countries on all public televisions and media. This is about aggressive primitiveism, hypocritical madness, false patriotism and questionable humanism, but state television encourages this type of behavior. I know he's having a fatal act, because a group of people who went to watch the Ajax-Dinamo game. After Ajax took the 3-0, they called me and asked for that bully's cell phone to express their admiration. So the second trend, unfortunately, with the feminisation of criminal behavior that can be expected, is the entry of growing minors and younger minors from 9, 10, 11 years of age into the world of crime. In part, this is linked to the phenomenon of addiction that is very well spoken of in this report. To me, Mr Damjanovic would be, let the former minister go, listen here. I'd be happy to be a little more analytically dealing with the problem of prisoner health. Here you have processing the health of prisoners from the negative side and from the point of view of the use of health care. So you have a display of addiction and a display of the use of health care. Me, however, we do not have a more serious public health picture of prisoners' health from physical and mental health to oral health and dental health. With that in mind, he would certainly remind the circumstances that the hospital in Svetosimunska has completed projects. You know that. And that it should already be in the budget for the next or for the next four years singled out and I would pray that you would go to the future government if you were lucky to continue, and the government to isolate these thoughts 30 or 40 million kunas for the completion of the hospital in Svetosymunska, to have one comparison of what relations they are dealing with. 40 million in Svetosimunska for the completion of a hospital that would be proud of and discipline not only of Croatian society and Croatian prison system and Croatian medical care. The amount is ten times lower than the value of the hall in Osijek according to Sišljagic's plan and twenty times smaller according to Djapic's plan. Therefore, the issue of social priorities is a very important issue. I'd be talking about two special cases. It's about two detainees. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I assume you've also received the letter that I found in my box at the moment. It's a letter from Mrs. Jadranka Gorenac, mother of Ivan Gotovina. He's in custody. And my wife writes to me, and you probably got that letter, too. Based on the data she's here, I want to get into the measure of things. However, it seems to me that there are two prisoners who are mature enough to be released from custody. It is Drazen Slavica, a prisoner from the famous case "Kornati" and Ivan Gotovina, written about by his mother. I'll just say so, it's hard to stand up for those in difficult situations. However, precisely because they are in difficult situations, which we all have children, even children of similar age, if one mother believes it is her child, it is actually a grown man who is 34 years old, unjustly ended up in prison, she would also deserve a reply from the President of the Croatian Parliament to whom she sent the letter, from the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and also from the Minister of Resort. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be interested in the case. I'm going to go see a man and at least make sure my wife or I answer that mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96121	The club of HSLS MPs, respected House Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Five minutes of debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this report really shows that when we hear that prisons have been re-retracted and that the 2006 fill was about 140%, we might think that the rule of law is working. However, when we look at the structure of the prisoners, then such a picture seriously collapses because they are there, I now remember a Belarusian prison that I know quite well because I visit minimum once a year. Most of the time, they're either five or they're very often city poor people who can't pay some fines. But I have to tell you that I'm meeting with really, really, just because of this overlap with one situation I want to tell you, and it's almost absurd, which is that they're looking for a connection to go to jail. They're really looking for a connection. And they're looking for a connection to go to prison in winter because they have safe heating and food. I think you can confirm that, too. And I remember how busy there was about to be a new prison, which city would it be? So the possible construction of a prison in Imotski was mentioned almost as an economic miracle. I would like to take a brief look at the warnings we received from NGOs dealing with the human rights situation, as well as the attorney general, where it is warned except for this overcrowding, lack of space, lack of equipment. I think there should be a particular warning about the insufficient number of doctors and the judicial police. In doing so, I have no intention of talking about escape during certain jobs that prisoners in cities work like the city of Bjelovar again where they work to clean up ambrosia. However, it would be good to hear what you say about prison hospitals and the lack of the Department to implement measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment. I believe that by reading this report we have all felt special concern for these juvenile prisoners who need very much help in socializing. If you look at who these minors are, then you will see very often that they are coming or from abandoned educational situations, from insufficient parental care, or from the victims of a drug dealer. It would also be good to hear what are possible solutions for this re-retraction, except for a recommendation that will surely go as one of our conclusions not to be spared on prison workers because such savings are mostly too expensive. But also about replacing prison sentences for community service. With such a proposal to replace the fines, mostly those who had to work while they were in prison there in the '70s don't agree. However, I believe that this model should be considered today. And also about the resuscitation of military facilities still standing, in large parts of the cities abandoned. I recently received information that only 5% of the military facilities assigned to local self-government were well used. So it's not always necessary to move over and over again. And saving on professional staff is too expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96123	Thank you. And a five-minute discussion of the SDP club, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96124	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the club, I would like to point out once again that the retrieval of our penitentiary, prison and educational institutions is one big problem. And I especially stress that it's not just a problem of space, that it's a major security problem and a problem from which the existing law then arises, even as it's violated in many of the rights of prisoners and detainees, it's no longer possible to respect it. Thus, one condition is the cause of violations and violations of the rights of prisoners, detainees and convicts, which directly brings Croatia to the indictee's bench in front of Strasbourg. I think it's an alarming one condition, that here, if I think about seriousness, and if one of these problems is seriously considered to be a conclusion that the government would commit to providing the funds, the funds needed to improve the conditions in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that by amending the Penalty Law, in particular with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions necessary for the most responsible place in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions. to the place where the basic criteria have been removed, where the necessary criteria of practice and expertise have been removed, thus directly leading to a re-political similarity in our prison system, which is one big step back from that existing situation that we were inauguration in 2001 and which placed Croatia at the very top of the transition countries by rights, respect for the rights of prisoners and detainees. If, therefore, it is quite certain that with such a law and even less with this practice, we cannot, we will be forced to change that law very soon on the basis of those standards that we had in 2001. Thus, such a situation is reflected in the safety aspect but also in the increased number of suicides. If we see this table on page 33, so the number of attempts was once higher but precisely because of a small number of prisoners, the convicts could be adequately responded. The number of suicides in prisons is growing. It's also a potential bomb, a threat to hostage crises and all those ruthless situations we're looking at in American prisons. Therefore, in order to prevent such a situation, it is necessary, in this normative system, to restore the situation as we had and, therefore, to ensure greater resources in order to remove these most difficult situations which, in certain prisons, were, in particular, by the public defender, apostrophysed in order to remove such a situation that he sublimed in a single sentence that is below human dignity. So there's a large number, there's an increase in the number of suicides, there's a large number of escapes. In 2006, 76 prisoners escaped. It's 24.8% since 2005. So when we add it up again, there's an entire prison that's escaped. ... They didn't come back, Mr. President. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They didn't come back, people appreciate their freedom, but they were still given the authority of the state to keep them where the judicial right gave them their place, but they didn't, either, when he had already put them in prison, and in the penitentiary, they didn't stop all the obligations of the state towards such persons. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, new ones have come into existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96125	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96126	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. As always, this report on the state of the penitentiary and prison for this past year 2006 has sparked a debate although it is about the report. I'm sorry, although it's a report that shows figures of fact, so there's a lot of statistics, as they are. As far as we're concerned, it's perfectly ideal that no one has said, and it's not catastrophic. We can, I'd dare say when I've listened to debates that are far from catastrophic but certainly not something that we could be completely satisfied with. The problems are familiar. The basic problem is overcrowding and nobody hides it, and it causes some problems but far from being able to talk about the situation being catastrophic or completely unsatisfactory. In addition, the fact of a small report by the attorney general states. However, the fact is that we are regularly visited by our colleagues from abroad, through the European Commission, through the Council of Europe, and at a bilateral level that also invites us to our experts working in the central prison system, prison managers to work with other colleagues from other countries, to cooperate and spread our experiences. If the situation were so bad and catastrophic, we certainly wouldn't be invited. In addition, the state of security in our prisons, along with this fact that the great transfer is satisfactory. We can't talk about them being general... Last year's trend of strike reduction was observed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The hostage situation was only somewhere since the esteemed representative was a minister, which does not necessarily mean anything but means that the security situation is constantly increasing. Suicidals are not something that is otherwise public, and prisons should be praised because I say now compared to an increase in population we had 17,000 790 prisoners last year. The number of suicides is higher than in 2005, with three to four increases. That number varies. However, I would like to stress that the number of suicides compared to the total number of prisoners cannot be judged whether the situation is alarming or not. With all due respect, everyone should be approached. But I'm saying it's not something to brag about, but our French colleagues tell us, so listen, you have that number, and then you can be happy, and we have this situation a lot worse. Therefore, these are situations which, when separated like this, can lead to some assessments, but in the overall situation, it certainly requires us to increase security measures further but not in itself say that the situation is alarming. Unfortunately, there are countries in our daily lives that face this problem far more as such. As far as capacity is concerned, we increased the number of capacities compared to last year by 225. That's not something... Anyway, we've opened new chapels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, when it comes to the checks that are being carried out in our prison systems and especially those relating to the introduction of drugs, here was a check yesterday when 300 grams of cocaine were found for visits. I'm not going to tell you the place where they were found so that some others wouldn't come up with that idea. But I'm saying regular controls, regular checks show and give results. It is here that otherwise this assessment between a catastrophic situation and a good condition was a lot of evaluations about what rights we give to prisoners. I said it in the opening and I'm behind it, that's the state's answer to that because someone's wrong about the standard of behavior. But when someone is in prison and we are in our laws that the High House has voted to guarantee certain rights. And it is for this country, especially those who work in the prison system to ensure these rights. And we continue to ensure that, with the fact that accommodation facilities are not ideal not, under these conditions they provide all possible benefits, including work. And that number's growing. So, for example, in 2005, 1190 prisoners were employed and last year 1320, the number increased by 10.8%, with a 100%-tan employment in the educational institutions. Then let me just say something about education because the goal is to enable it, if it wants to, to get better while it is on a prison sentence for working in life. I also note that then at other institutions of society when someone gets out of prison and in society as a whole to provide him with that resociation. So let's say, last year we spent various kinds of education in a total of 394 of which there were descriptions of 15, crafts school were 172, various courses 116 and so on. I'm going to skip the medical exams because I initially said that there were 121 thousand 985 in total that we invested in the work this year, the reconstruction of a certain part of the hospital for persons deprived of liberty, which is what we plan to do in the coming years, but very special attention is given there, in those prisons, in that hospital, I'm sorry, just for psychiatric treatment and treatment. I just said it first, and I'll do it again. We are discussing a competition within the prison system for doctors, unfortunately, the fact is that these tenders pass without any candidate, doctor or psychiatrist who would be interested in working in this system. As for the organized use of leisure time, so last year we secured, organized 245 different sports meetings and for football, table and basketball, which were about 500 total. We organize cultural events, concerts so that last year 23 concerts were organised, theatre performances 24, second, Masses, galleries, museums 280. The number of visits increased compared to 2005 from 9800 to approximately 11 and a half, forgive 98 thousand 861, to 115 thousand 509. So we can't talk in any way about jeopardizing rights, so more if we increase it with the number of visits, that means we need to ensure security. And let me just say it. Within all these rights and conveniences there were only 95 complaints of prisoners at,... on the execution of the decision of the warden of the prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's still a realistic indicator of how much attention is paid to achieving the rights of the prisoners. As far as these fugitives are concerned, I just have to make it right, that they're not fugitives, they're actually who were given the benefit, so over the weekend they're allowed to spend the weekend with their family and then they're not back. Of course, the police will be notified immediately and most of them will return. And finally, there has been also talk of a new competition for managers, it has nothing to do with political similarities, it actually has to do with the need and only this need for the prison manager, and the persons most responsible for the functioning of prisons and penitentiary to be persons who, by their professional qualifications, meet that requirement. The law has been amended because despite good intentions that this circle of people who can be, if only from the prison system, is objectively too tight. It then revolves within the system itself and we cannot ensure then the best quality of candidates for the empty seats of the leaders in the penitentiary and prisons. But it can't be people with... , these can only be persons of high-level training who work in the system, so they work in the judiciary, of course, are also suitable persons from prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I note that they go, like all other former officials, such as ministerial assistants, they become civil servants, so theirs, in that segment, the service becomes professional. Here's the deal. This was a brief review. I hope I covered most of it in the debate on this report on the state of the penitentiary and prison for the past 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96127	Thank you. Correction of the quote. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96128	It is true that Mrs. Secretary of State said that the situation in the prisons is not so. I'll read what he said so terriblely, what the Attorney General said, and if he hadn't made it up, that's what we all agreed here when we unanimously supported his report. I can, please, quote: "The conditions of accommodation of prisoners, detainees and convicts are very bad, and in certain prisons and penitentiary facilities can be concluded: Under all health and hygiene standards, and completely inappropriate to human dignity.". This was in 2005 and in 2006, he claimed that the situation had subsequently deteriorated. You've had 74 escapes, 24.8% since 2005, so you've lost an entire prison. And you had a suicide so much that in one day two people killed themselves. You let Kihalic kill himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96129	And another correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96130	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Madam Secretary of State said that no doctor or psychiatrist has applied to the tenders, which should probably be justified by the State's secretary because of such a small number of drug addicts' involvement in special treatment programmes. Madam Secretary of State, this is exactly an incentive for you to approach the amendment and supplement the criminal code so that those prisoners, addicts, who have committed the crime may be charged with an alternative sentence. Because for them, and for society, it is far more efficient and better to be placed in specialised therapy communities, assuming that they are employed by experts to resocialize and get rid of drugs. So it's an interest, it's an interest of the state, it's an interest of both state and individual. And these people take over 30% of your capacity, 30% of your capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-05-0.u96131	I'm closing the debate on this report. Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2006. I'm voting on the next conclusion. "A proposed report is accepted." Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 99 for, 8 against and 22 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
