ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last week we sent you a letter in front of the HSS Club, and it refers to comments by the spokespersons of the Ministry of Agriculture Mladen Pavić, who said of MP Ljubica Lalić, quote: "Ljuvica Lalić has no idea what he's talking about and you won't hear anything smart from her. And only those who do not have their own private life comment on the behaviour of others." Unfortunately, from that letter, it was a week ago that it was addressed to you without you being manifested. The prosecutor for gender equality, who said among other things, was obvious: "I think speakers should be particularly responsible for publicly spoken words to the media because it is expected to be familiar with the media's influence on the public regarding the spread of various stereotypes about women. That is why speakers should necessarily follow and respect not only the Constitution but also the legal provisions including the Law on Gender Equality." Here's obviously the D.A.'s office feels that the law has been broken and even the Constitution. We asked you to respond, to discuss this at the Parliament Presidency. To be honest, I expected within that week and your personal intervention, at least a statement about the case, nothing happened. So I ask you now to respond to the HSS Club whether you, or the Bureau of Parliament, will react to this situation because if the speakers and the state's apparatus treats the MPs this way, what can be expected in their behaviour towards the citizens. It's arrogant, it's ossio. That should change. We have asked you and expect you to respond appropriately to protect the dignity of Parliament's MP Ljubica Lalić, all MPs, because this is not the first case that the state administration treats MPs this way. And it's not an isolated case that the state administration is acting arrogantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87664	A spokesman for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy apologized for his inappropriate remarks at the expense of MP Ljubica Lalic. He sent flowers. And it is certain that these are inappropriate forms of communication and such a way of treating the parliamentary representative, the parliamentary representatives by the ministry's spokeswoman. The Presidency of the Croatian Parliament does not have that competence and authority because it is in Article 36. Rules of Procedure provided for the powers of the Bureau of Parliament. I can only express one regret about such communication and such inappropriate outbursts and it is the Ministry and Government that they will react in some other way to such a form of communication. We're going to a debate. ... - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Proposer is the Government. Second reading. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government and human rights and the rights of national minorities. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87665	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In its programme, the Croatian government planned to introduce a direct selection of mayors, municipal mayors and mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb during the term of office, believing that this would make the vote more clear but also the legitimacy of the executive government. The government has proposed a Law on the direct selection of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors who have passed two readings waiting to be voted because the Council's conclusion is that the government is in charge of proposing a law that will regulate their relations. Especially if there is a political conflict between the holders of executive powers and the representative body. Therefore, we have proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which has been thoroughly discussed in this esteemed House and in the preparation of the final proposal for a law, we have conducted a broad debate with experts from the Council of Europe. We sent him to the Council of Europe for expertise and we got a positive assessment. We discussed it with the Association of the Union of Cities and the Union of Municipalities as well as the county community and many objections from the parliamentary debate and also from these national associations and the Council of Europe were incorporated into this Final Bill. I would point out only the essential provisions, not to explain all the articles, which is that members of the representative body directly elected mayor, the mayor and the mayor can ask questions about his work. That he is obliged twice a year to report to the representative body on his work. That he may cease his term of office under the law: if he resigns on the day of his resignation, if he is deprived of his business ability by the power of power of the decision to take away his business ability. If he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of prison for more than six months on a day of power. If convicted of other acts that make him particularly unworthy of the conduct of the mayorial duty, therefore against the freedom of man and citizen, against the Republic of Croatia and the values protected by international law, regardless of the penalty it is imposed upon him. And if he logs out of residence or if his Croatian citizenship stops. Or unfortunately, and we have to predict that if he dies on duty. In the event of a conflict between the representative body and the mayor, the conflict will be resolved by citizens. We foresee a statement of confidence of the mayor, the municipal chief and the mayor. We called it a referendum at work. But if there are better ideas because it is not a referendum within the meaning of the Law on Referendum and other forms of participation of citizens in the exercise of state authority and local self-government. Because it's one standard special to that law. Therefore, the representative body will call a referendum when the mayor does not carry out his duties under the law, when he violates the non-execution of the representative body's decision and, by his work, causes units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, significant material damage. In this law, we have also made it clear that this would be a significant material damage. This is one percent of the budget, and in units where the budgets are large and where one percent represents millions of amounts under significant material damage we consider damages of 500 000 kuna. Of course, during the committee debate, the question of whether or not the Council of the Seas was raised, the formulation would be interpreted as the sea. The Council shall take a decision by majority vote. Unless a decision is taken to call a referendum, there is no referendum at least one of these reasons. We also accepted an objection from the debate that it is necessary to define which number of people to attend the referendum is the least needed. We have therefore defined that it is at least 33% of voters listed in voters' lists, making sure that around 60% of voters are enrolled in local elections. So that's the relevant majority who will judge any council, either the mayor. We are introducing a newspaper, which we also allow citizens to, who are directly banned from the mayor that if they are dissatisfied with his work and if it turns out that exports are not the happiest to initiate and recall such a elected mayor with the same majority. It is therefore necessary to collect the signatures of 33% of eligible voters after which the representative body could call a referendum, i.e. the form of a declaration. We have, however, protected the mayors from frequent referendums, so we prescribe that the plea cannot be issued until 6 months have passed since the term of office. And also if a plea fails, the following statement cannot be issued before the 12 months since the last statement. We must also respect Croatian specificities, and as regards the protection of the rights of national minorities, the implementation of the Constitutional Law, we have therefore foreseen that in the environment where the statute is planned, it is envisaged that where members of national minorities participate with more than 15% that one of the deputy mayors may be, they should be members of that national minority. But also this member of the national minority must have legitimacy, must be elected by the council and we believe that this is a model that will ensure the representation of national minorities and the application of the Constitutional Law and in the executive powers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we think we're offering a good solution. This solution is well accepted in both the Croatian public and professional circles. It also received support from the Council of Europe, associations of cities and communities of the county and association of municipalities and we ask that you accept this law so that, together with the Law on Direct Elections of Mayors and Mayors and Mayors, they can be voted on in time for local elections to be held in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87666	Thank you. Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Committee President-in-Office Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87667	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 79th session held on 17 April 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 5 April 2007. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of laws to regulate the mutual relations and responsibilities of representative bodies and municipal mayors, mayors and mayors after the introduction of a system of direct election of those leaders. In order to regulate these relations in an appropriate manner, the following comments have been made in the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is necessary to prescribe that members of the representative body have the right, without being able to ask questions about his work to the municipal mayor, or mayor, as prescribed by the Constitution for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is also suggested that members of the representative bodies have the right to ask questions and deputies of the abovementioned leaders. In Article 9, it is necessary to provide for a direct selection of the second deputy municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor of the national minority, given that both deputies have equal rights and responsibilities. It is necessary to reconsider the provision of point 5(1) and paragraph 2 of Article 13 which lays down powers regarding the acquisition and alienation of movable and real estate units of local and regional self-government. It is considered that this authority should have an executive authority, with the fact that for real estate the value of which exceeds a certain amount is necessary to obtain the previous or ex post consent of the representative body. It is necessary to clarify the provision of Article 22 in order to specify precisely the duties of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor, and their deputies professionally as well as the exercise of the duties of the municipal chief and his deputies without the establishment of a working relationship. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). Final bill. It is necessary to clarify the provisions of Article 8 of these are the new articles 40.b and 40.c, which regulate the way the municipal mayor, mayor, mayor and their deputies are resolved by calling a referendum to specify the reasons for calling a referendum, the number of voters who may propose holding a referendum, or who should respond to a referendum and the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the results of the referendums, as well as the compliance of this provision with the provisions of the Law on referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local self-government. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government after having conducted a thorough debate on the basis of which it would lay down amendments to the text of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87668	Thank you. Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, President, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87669	The President-in-Office, State Secretary, the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 58th session held on 25 April discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, which was delivered by the Government to the President of the Parliament. The Committee discussed that act as a parent body. The Committee held a written opinion of the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia and the City of Komiža, a single administrative department in the case. In the debate, most members of the Committee supported the proposed amendments and additions to this law, which primarily concerns the regulation of relations between the representative body of the local and regional (regional) self-government and directly elected mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and their deputies in those units. External member of the Committee and president of the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia warned members of the Committee from the position, he met members of the Committee on position of the Association of Cities on the Law in question. The debate expressed an opinion on the basis of which the solution would be proposed in Article 8. The final draft law, which proposes, in additional Article 40b, paragraph 5, that the decision to call a referendum, the resolution of the municipal chief, the mayor, or mayor and his deputy, should be amended by a majority vote of the representative body in a way that the representative body should make a decision to call the referendum to a two-thirds majority of all members. The opinion under which the decision proposed in paragraph 6 of Article 40.b should be reconsidered, which provides that a decision on the resolution of the municipal head, mayor, or mayor and his deputy has been taken if at least 33% of the voters listed in the list of voters of the respective unit have responded to the referendum, and if most of the voters who went to the referendum have been declared for the resolution. In this respect, it was concluded that in a proposed way, an inadequately small number of voters in the referendum could decide on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputy and that the basic law on the referendum should also be respected to determine this issue. The debate gave an opinion on the basis of which the decision would propose Article 22. The final draft of the law in the part in which it is established that the General Act of the Municipal Council may provide that the municipal chief and his deputies may carry out their duties without the establishment of a working relationship should be extended in a way that enables the mayor and his deputies to carry out their duties without the establishment of a working relationship. The opinion under which the new Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government should be adopted after the next elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and that the law in question is withdrawn from the procedure, as neither the conditions nor the implementation of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government would result in further confusion in this area. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes against and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87670	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87671	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this proposed amendments and amendments to the law, although we are also trying to help the promoter fix this law with our amendments we are aware that it will not be accepted. And that's why we stay at the decision that we can't support this bill, and I'll explain why. The main objective and intention and reason why we need to amend this law is an attempt to coordinate the relationship between the representative body and the directly elected leaders. This is basically why we need to change this law or, in our opinion, bring a new one, which would be far more acceptable. In 2009, we will have a completely new system and new relations because the voters of the Republic of Croatia will choose their municipal mayors, mayors and mayors in direct elections. And a brand-new relationship between such elected leaders to the representative body that will be elected on the same day in the election of these same voters. What are the objectives or objectives of these interventions in the law? As few crisis situations as possible in local and regional self-government as possible, as little uncertainty as possible, vagueness and conflict of authority. The government has been coming to Parliament since the beginning of last year with partial solutions. We had the first proposed Law on Direct Elections. So we have found out, and it is good that we have not decided on this law for so long until the Parliament and in the second reading conducts a debate on this law. And then the government said it would clearly, precisely regulate relations between the representative body and directly elected leaders. However, this partial solution is probably also a gradual law offering that this law looks more like a patch than a patch, i.e. a patch, and this proves that the government came with its amendments after the final debate on direct elections to its draft law, because it was subsequently found that some of the same laws were simply not good and unimplementable. When the Parliament discussed the proposal of the Croatian People's Party Club on similar laws, then the government refused, and representatives of the HDZ Club, on the grounds that we did not resolve the very relations between the representative body and directly elected leaders. Have consultations and discussions been conducted and are the disputed points of the bill in line with cities, municipalities and counties? Some discussions and discussions were obvious, but according to the number of objections and their content, there was obviously no agreement between the government and communities of municipalities and cities and counties, which is visible from the number and content of their observations and the Assembly is now being brought into an arbitration situation. Our decision must be final. This makes our responsibility greater because without agreement, we determine the rules of the game that will be mandatory for someone else. We will establish the rules of the game for those who say that the proposed laws are not good and that they need to be changed or corrected. By reading their comments and from this very responsibility, and we witnessed a series of problems after the elections in the local self-government as I did in my first reading, and I will once again warn the government's representative of the lack of provisions, but those who undermine each other. The first example, Article 3 of amending and supplementing the law refers to the powers of the representative body. I ask after these changes and additions who adopts the budget of the municipality, city or county? Who's adopting the budget? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the powers of the representative body, there is no adoption of the budget. Why does it matter? Who is proposing a budget to the representative body? Who is the draftor of the budget? There's no law in that provision either. In the law, we will not have a provision that a directly elected head of the municipality is obliged to propose a draft budget to the municipal council. Is not adopting the budget a condition for disbanding the representative body? Yeah. That provision in the law exists and remains. Can the municipal council adopt a budget if the municipal chief does not propose a budget? He can't. Is not offering a budget by the mayor to the county assembly a condition for its resolution? No, I don't. No, as there is no obligation under this Act nor is there any provision in Article 40a of the budget not provided for, there is no justification and legal reason to initiate the termination of the term of office procedure. Is it possible, by not offering a budget, that the head of the municipality could cause the disbanding of the representative body? Okay? Is that going to be used? They will, if there's a crisis situation. If this is now visible, and if we warn this, I do not see a reason why the amendment would not be accepted if the budget had not been submitted in Article 40a were the condition of the end of the term of office. Secondly, in this article 40th and last paragraph speak of the end of the term of office of the municipal mayor, mayor, mayor, and says if this occurs during the calendar year in which elections are held, no extraordinary elections will be called. In the Law on Direct Elections, there is a provision that his duty would then be assumed by his deputy. Does this provision apply regardless of the reasons for the termination of the term of office? If he moves to another county, municipality or city, I understand, if he died and I understand it, but what if the mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality has been suspended for the reasons provided for, but not later than 3 and 4 of this article. For example, if the mayor has suspended his term of office because of the power of a court ruling condemning him to an unconditional prison sentence of more than 6 months for abuse of office as mayor or as mayor or mayor of the municipality. What if the end of the term of office was due to the fourth indent that he was convicted by a judicial order, for example, of a war crime that this adjudicate, this article provides. I remind you that in the election procedure candidates for mayor, mayor and mayor of the municipality and his deputy are in the package. In the process of resolving when voting for possible impeachment are also in the package and votes in the recall of one and the other. So when we choose them they are in the package, when we resolve them they are in the package, but at the moment the mandate ends during the term of office, then the package is separated, one stays, the other goes away regardless of the reasons why the term of office ended. So I'm sorry if someone is convicted of a war crime by a judicial order for abuse of office, theft of county, city or municipal money. His deputy can't stay in office because they were in the package. They're either in a package all the time or we're splitting them up all the time, which is not natural. Therefore, Article 40a must separate the terms and conditions, the reasons for the termination of the term of office, in order for the deputy to have the right to remain and succeed and continue to act as the directly elected leader. Article 40.b speaks in the process of resolution where both the deputy and the candidate are in the package. Voting the mayor's mistrust falls and his deputy, as well as the election. However, the law stipulates that the representative body is no longer a referendum or something that I do not understand what this decision should now be, most of the votes. Why most voices? Well, wasn't it precisely that possibility of abuse of that right of the representative body that was constantly stressed as the possibility of destroying such elected leaders and that we would constantly have a crisis about local self-government? Why don't we say it's a two-thirds majority? We are warning of the fact that both HDZ and the government have just rejected all the proposals so far by claiming that such a provision will create confusion, disorder and frequent local elections. Now the government is proposing a simple majority. The resolution decision was made at the referendum if 33% of voters responded to it and if therefore the majority who went to the referendum were defined. That means 33% response, 16.5 plus one should vote for someone to fall. And in order for these same voters to have the right to initiate someone's shift, it takes 33% for the initiative to call this divine referendum. How come? For resolution, 16.5% of voters plus one is enough, and for the citizens' initiative, it takes 33 voters to place their signature. The initiative needs twice as many votes as it needs for the resolution decision. And I'm going back to asking if this is a referendum? The law, therefore, writes a referendum. Then we have a referendum law that quite differently regulates what a referendum is. What response must be and which majority of Croatian voters make decisions in the referendum. I'd ask the government to determine if this is a referendum? Then we don't need to write any more provisions about it, or we'll call it something different, a half-referendum, a god's referendum, a tricki-referendum. But we can't call a referendum and then change the most important provisions on the response needed and the majority needed to get voters to decide something. Why? I mean, where does the idea that a citizen's initiative needs twice as many votes as we would have decided later in the referendum? So much for trusting voters, I guess. As for the availability and management of the property. The law provides for the right of directly elected leaders to possess or alienate movable values to an individual value of 0.5% and up to a million kuna, respectively. I'm asking what values? Property of municipalities, cities and counties has book value, market value, purchase value, sales value, estimated value. What's the value of that key? For some property, we can't know the advance value if it's sold or bought by competition. Let it have a book value and an estimated value. Please, that word, the individual value, we have to specify which value to think about. And I'm done with the next one. See Article 24. This law will enter into force on the third week of May 2009. The statutes must be agreed within 90 days. And then we come to a constitutional session after the election. We have old statutes and old Rules of Procedure. A new system. This Act on Transition and Final Provisions must have provisions in the first constitutional session because the old representative body has left, a new one has come, which only within 90 days must amend its Statute and Rules of Procedure and bring it into line with this law in order to avoid disputes on the constitution, in the process of constitution. And only one article is enough to prescribe rules of conduct at the first constitutive session in the space created by the new law, the new representative body and the old one who does not have the authority to comply with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87672	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87673	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, is before us. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is an organic law which regulates the structure and part-round of local and regional self-government and requires the adoption of most of the total number of all MPs. Of course, there will be a lot of objections to this as well as to many other laws. However, it is certain that some who are here will be spoken and adopted and, of course, the law will be upgraded in the same way as the practice requires. It is a pleasure to conclude that, even when proposing this final bill, a broad debate has also been held with the Associations of Cities, municipalities, the Association of Countys and many other interested parties and that, therefore, agreement has been reached on the fundamental provisions of this law. We discussed the proposal for this law in our first reading at the 22nd session in October 2006. This is a fundamental law that regulates the system of functioning of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It lays down the powers and responsibilities of individual bodies of local authorities, their relations and responsibilities. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is pleased with the fact that the government is through this and also making a pre-election promise, as well as the elements of the government's programme, which introduces the largest essential newspaper in local self-government, which is the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. The introduction of a system of direct selection of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies, there is a profound change in the system of local and regional self-government that affects the choice of the executive body as well as their rights, obligations and responsibilities. The direct selection of the executive body at local level gives rise to a clear division of powers between the directly elected municipal chief, mayor and mayor on the one hand and the representative body of the municipal or city council on the other hand. Namely, the holders of the executive authority were thus far directly under control and dependent on the representative body because these representative bodies were elected by the mayor, mayor and mayor from their ranks. The representative body who chose him in the same way solved him. Such a situation where, due to the frequent over-relationship of the coalition during the term of office, changes in the executive and local chieftains have proved to be an obstacle to the better and more efficient functioning of local self-government. We are therefore confident that by moving to the direct choice model of the executive body by citizens, and by means of a different regulation of powers, the balance between the representative body of the executive authority will be established precisely to ensure the stability of their functioning. The role of previous chieftains is taken over directly by the elected municipal chief, mayor and mayor, and we are convinced that the adoption of this law, or its solutions, will achieve greater legitimacy of the choice of local leaders since they will be elected directly from the citizens, will achieve greater identification of citizens with local authority, greater stability of local authorities and greater levels of security and continuity in the work of executive bodies at local level. I would also like to comment on some proposed solutions under this law, in particular the elements of Articles 40a, 40b and 40c, which address the issue of the termination of the mandate of the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor, and therefore, in some ways, the most possible disputes are seen. Article 40a is not disputed, it regulates the termination of the term of office under the law, so when legally prescribed conditions such as those are obtained. resignation, judicial decision on the confiscation of business capacity, check-out of residence, death or the like Article 40.b discusses that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor can be resolved after the referendum has been held, so the citizens of those who elected him in several cases. First, when it does not carry out its duty under the law, second, when it violates or does not execute the decisions of the representative body and thirdly, when it causes significant material damage by the unit of local self-government, and significant damage is prescribed at 1% of the budget, i.e. 500 thousand kuna in absolute amount. I would like to stress here that we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club for some solutions in this article have proposed two amendments, and it concerns the following. In the first amendment, we propose that the word "will" be replaced by "can" in Article 40b. It seems to be a minor change, but I think it's essentially changing things. The representative body, according to the final proposal of the law, would in some way have to do something binding, and we suggest that the word "can" means that the representative body will evaluate and assess the situation and, depending on its conclusion, will suggest or not propose holding a referendum. And the other thing that is also essential to us, we suggest in the entire text of the law that the word "referendum" be replaced by, of course, the corresponding decline in the term "representation". Why? Because this is not about a classic referendum, but about a statement of trust from the executive and therefore we think that the term "response" instead of the term "referendum" is more appropriate. I will, of course, use the term "referendum" a little "determination" but given this proposal, we think that the term "determination" would be better quality. But this motion for a resolution can therefore be submitted by one-third of the council members, and a decision to call a referendum or a declaration of resolution shall be made by a majority of all votes of the representative body. The decision was taken if the referendum was responded to by at least 33% of voters enrolled in the voter list and if most of the voters came forward for the shift. If 33% or more voters come to the referendum, and no resolution decision is made, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body that made the referendum decision. And we have the third fact that is regulated in Article 40c where voters listed in the list of voters can also initiate holding a referendum or a statement of mistrust to the mayor, mayor and mayor and 33% of voters we think it is appropriate to launch the initiative. The mayor, the mayor, or mayor, also has their deputies who are elected directly together with him, particularly in local units where members of the national minority participate with more than 15% of the total population, i.e. in units where members of the national minority make up the majority of the population, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor have two deputies, and the second deputy elects a representative body from their ranks, from the ranks of members of the national minority, i.e. from the order of the Croatian people in those units where members of the national minority make up the majority of the population. And let me get this straight. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are convinced that by adopting this law we are making a significant step in the system of local and regional self-government. By adopting this law and by introducing a direct selection model for the mayor, mayor and mayor, we are convinced that we will therefore achieve greater legitimacy of the choice of local leaders and what is most important, greater quality in the functioning of local authorities. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives' Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87674	Thank you. SDP club, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87675	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The SDP is for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. The SDP is for a decentralised and deconcentrated Republic of Croatia. But the SDP believes that such systematic solutions cannot be achieved by partial amendments to the law. If this week or soon the Croatian Parliament adopts these amendments we will not have the Law on local and regional regional self-government, we will have one salad from the Law on local and regional regional self-government because we will have a part of the law that has been in force since 2001 and applies. We will have a part of the law that has been in force since 2005 and applies but the units of local and regional regional self-government cannot consume it because the government has not proposed and the Parliament has passed none of the thirty-five laws that should have been passed. And we're going to have a part of the law that's been passed and that's going to apply since 2009. I wonder what the consolidated text of this law will look like if ever it is done. This seems to me a little more dust in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because apparently someone thinks that only if there is enough dust in their eyes that they will vote for the ruling party. We are in favour of the SDP and there is plenty of time for this to take place for a new system of local self-government that will enter or begin to apply from new regular elections, and that is, since May 2009, therefore, a whole new package of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government because we have a law that has been waiting long enough for us to declare it. He's been discussed, the amendments are days, about how we will choose directly elected leaders of local self-government units. With this law, we may or may not know how we may be able to resolve those directly elected leaders. What they will do with this law is not fully defined. What kind of authority does no one know? What money does no one know? And instead of dealing with the right things and the right thing to do today would be to discuss the regionalisation of Croatia or the national classification that has been adopted and that has caused huge controversy in the Croatian public and protests. We are discussing something quite certain that will change by 2009 several more times and it is quite certain that a government that really wants to redefine the system of local self-government will approach the creation of a complete package of the Law on Local Self-Government. But today, we are continuing to discuss the amendments to the law which, with one patch, with a patch like my colleague Lesar said, is trying to tell us that you will be able to resolve the directly elected leaders of the units of local self-government. Well, gentlemen, it's not essential in local self-government that you choose or resolve the mayor. The point is that he will work, what powers and responsibilities he will have, what influence citizens will have on the work of their local self-government between the elections. So citizens have to influence the functioning of local self-government not only every fourth year on the day of the election but they have to have the possibility of having an impact on what is happening in their local self-government, which will have local self-government money, how official relations in local self-government will be arranged. It's not that there's no answer here, it doesn't even indicate what it's going to be, when or how it's going to be. Therefore, the SDP club suggests that this law simply withdraws from the procedure and even tries to reach a political consensus on the package of the Law on Local Self-Government because it is an important issue for each of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we have absolutely enough time to achieve it. And as bad as this solution is, so this is the political reason why we think this should be withdrawn, but this is also a bad solution, the misspelled text that should be pulling it out of the procedure. It speaks of a whole series of remarks highlighted on the boards, so it speaks of that I guess this is the first time HDZ has submitted an amendment to the text of the HDZ government law. So he's talking about the Constitution Committee having serious objections, so he's saying that there's been a very live debate on some other committees. So let us not think that something needs to be brought first is bad and second that has no results or effects on what will happen in the future. And now very specifically some remarks. So, we have a law where we speak, we don't have it yet, I guess we'll have it, we'll vote it maybe. We don't even know what it's going to look like because it has a number of amendments on it. How do we choose the directly elected leaders of local self-government units? Now, how and who will replace them? They can be replaced in a referendum in two ways. So two institutions can raise the question of the referendum. One is the city council and the other are citizens of the local self-government unit. And you now have one absurd that directly elected mayor who has received at least 50% of the votes of citizens who have gone to the elections and some have received more of this shows the practice so far when we do not have so directly elected will come and they will be able to be replaced by council members who have received far less votes in these elections. What is absurd we don't even know how the councilors will be elected in 2009, whether we will have this system of election of councilors or the system of election of city councils, municipal councils and county councils will change, and thus there will be a different relationship between the individual councillor, his party or club and the individual councilman and the directly elected mayor. But then, we're going into a latent crisis because it's enough for the half-way to decide that the referendum should be called. And there's this little danger that the referendum doesn't work so that there's a new election to be discussed, but there's a possibility that someone is consciously going into having a referendum, that the referendum doesn't work, that the council is disbanded because they want to re-election for the city council, the municipal council because they think they're going to get most of it in the city council. And there's a possibility. It is even more absurd for citizens to initiate the mayor's shift to require 33% of citizens' signatures in a local self-government unit. Gentlemen, today we have a mayor in Croatia whose lists received more than 33% of the total number of voters in their city when they were elected in the indirect elections. Today we have such mayors. We are opening the possibility here that the elected mayors who received, for example, 40% of the total voter entries should be removed with 17 and a half percent of voters enrolled in the voters' lists. And the question arises in general how is the legislator proposing that the referendum succeeds in requiring a smaller number of votes than those who have even initiated the referendum. So if 33% of the citizens are to issue a referendum then it would be fair at least 33% plus 1 must be in order for that referendum to succeed. And not half of it is enough. Because then what we signed if we're not ready to go to the referendum and vote for such a directly elected leader of the local self-government unit to be removed in the referendum. Otherwise, we have a referendum law. The referendum law makes it very clear who, when and how can call referendums. We have in the current Law on Local Self-Government the possibility for citizens to initiate a referendum. So how are we going to distinguish a referendum from a referendum? How are we going to distinguish these two referendums in the same law? We'll write one in big letters, the other in small letters. Or there will be a cursive written this referendum for the mayor's shift. And for this one, it takes a lot more votes than it does for, to replace the mayor, you need 33%, but you've had enough 17% to go to the polls, and when it's a simple referendum on a communal issue, you need 20% to initiate and 50% to pass the referendum on this. So imagine that absurd. You need to initiate more, less to pass here, less to initiate, more to pass. So what's this about? What's this about? It's not an important decision. It's not an important decision. If you need an ordinary majority in the City Council. And the question of the mayor or head must be one of the most important decisions because it speaks about the influence or relationship between the mayor or the directly elected head and representative body. And for that, there should be at least a two-thirds majority in the City Council, the Municipal or the County Assembly. At least a two-thirds majority. Because otherwise, we can come to a position where every session of the City Council discusses a referendum. It does not have to be called, but if a third of the council members can initiate the agenda item you can have at each session of the representative body a debate on the opening of the referendum. And at every session, she will be rejected. Maybe it'll pass on someone. But you have an obstruction of the work of the City Council or the County Assembly. You're insecure because the mayor has to prepare himself for this debate, not for some other things he might have to do. A completely absurd and confusing situation. It's confusing and the question of damage. We have here in Article 40.b. says that the damage is 1% and 500 thousand kuna, and on the other hand we say that the mayor can decide on the acquisition of movable and real estate of 0.5% of the amount or millions of kuna. Well, at least we could have put those two numbers the same. One, one, one million, one million. So we say it can, it can only decide or we have 1% and 500 grand here and we have 0.5% and a million here. Well, we could have put each other on. If the mayor could decide on that... I'm not considered a damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is thought to be a pity that it must decide with the consent of the representative body. Because it's 1% and 500 grand damage, and 0.5% and a million can make their own decisions. Well, that's an article for the article. At least it could have been written one after another. Next, we have a situation here in article 9 of national minorities who must therefore be directly elected deputy mayors, right? How directly elected deputy mayors are resolved. This is how they resolve themselves as well as directly elected deputy mayors. Well, that's absurd. It cannot be changed to make it different from what is the way of choice. The choice method must be the same as the solution. Secondly, can the directly elected deputy mayor have the same authority with the indirectly elected deputy mayor or not? Third, it is completely absurdly written here that the deputy mayor is elected from the city council's ranks from the order of national minorities. Well, that's how a defined decision can initiate additional elections for us. Because we can really only have one single representative in the representative body of national minorities. And we don't have anyone else to fill it with. Or we can have a readjustment of the electoral will because one will become the deputy mayor and another list will enter the city council in order for the city council to be filled out. If we go after this then there is no need for a representative of the national minorities to be a member of the city or representative body in order to become deputy mayor. It's even more like the one who got a mandate from the citizens to sit in the city and municipal council to sit there. And someone else, let him run the city, right? Finally, Article 24 is impossible to implement the constitution of representative bodies and that the mayors take office unless the statutes of the local self-government units are amended before they enter office. Therefore, it cannot be argued that this law will enter into force on 17 May and that within 90 days of the entry into force of this law, the statutes of the units of local self-government will be brought into line with this law. It's simply inconclusive. Because if you bring in an act that is contrary to the Statute, the Office of the State Administration will annul it for you. You could do that for as many as 3 months to work in. a situation where the statutes are not harmonised. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] So we really suggest that this law withdraws and we have enough time to make a whole new package of laws on local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87676	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87677	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. The HSP club believes this law is not well done. That he's inconclusive and he'll cause a lot of trouble in the field. Which does not mean that the HSP Club does not support the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. The basic issues that this law should address are to regulate the relationship between the directly elected municipal chief, mayor and mayor, and to define the powers of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and to define and regulate the procedures of their resolution. However, I do not understand the consequences that this law will require, as the proponent claims, that greater legitimacy will be achieved for the selection of the municipal chief, that it will contribute to greater identification of citizens with local authority. We don't understand it in HSP. A better system will be governance, and greater stability of local authorities, i.e. local and regional (regional) self-government, and a higher degree of security and continuity in the work of the local self-government unit's executive body. Please note, the Proposer argues that greater stability, security and continuity will be achieved after a number of possible petitions and referendums possible after local elections. Since the law also prescribes a direct selection of executives in units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the authority of the representative body is abolished, and the city and municipality heads are also abolished, and we are actually wondering what is the task of the representative bodies. It'd be good to get rid of them, too. However, we know why this is also impossible and why the proposing does not dare and suggest this because it would, in fact, be the abolition of, or total abolition of, parliamentaryism. And this bill by abolishing, by direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, and by abolishing executive bodies, i.e. In fact, the suspension of parliamentaryism in local self-government is, in some ways, an end to the rule of law. Article 40b. It has been established that the representative body will call a referendum on the matter of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputy, in the event that it does not carry out its duties under the law. Then, when they break or fail to execute the decisions of the representative body and, by their work, cause the unit of local, or regional self-government significant material damage, then the law lays down what material damage is to be done, i.e. One percent. However, it is unclear who determines the damage, how it is assessed and in which way, or who will be authorised to assess this material damage caused by the mayors, mayors and mayors. Article 40c. it is possible for voters listed in the list of municipal voters, i.e. the city or county to raise the issue of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies. Namely, it is prescribed that at least 33% of voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city or county voters may propose a referendum on the issue of resolution to the representative body. In fact, it is not defined how and how 33% of voters will actually propose to the representative body a vote of mistrust to the mayor and mayor, or whether it is in front of a referendum or actually a petition. The law also provides for the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, to have one deputy elected in the direct elections under the law. Therefore, the deputy mayoral chief, or mayor, is elected at the same time by the same procedure as the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor. It's okay. However, in units of local self-government and regional self-government, the second deputy mayor, or mayor, is not really clear who proposes another deputy and how it is resolved. Whether it is resolved as well as the first deputy or resolved by means of a representative body that actually sets it up, or selects it. The law also stipulates that the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, has the property of a local and regional self-government unit, but with a certain limit. And as the proposer suggests, this would be funds that do not exceed zero five percent of the revenues achieved in that year, so we in HSP are asking the directly elected chief, mayor or mayor what can actually be done capitalically in its term of office, i.e. in one year of office. It is unclear by this law who proposes the budget, who makes the budget and how. Namely, we know who should propose and that the mayor, the mayor and the mayor should propose a budget and who should bring it. However, we are warning of the possibility of various and many machinations around the budget, because so far it's been said a lot about it, so I wouldn't talk about it for long. But there is only one question – how a budget will be adopted if it is proposed by the mayor, the mayor or the mayor, and it does not have a majority in the representative body. It has been established by this law that the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, as well as their deputy officials are professionally acting as we agree. However, the law also provides for the municipal council to determine by its acts that the municipal chief and his deputies can also perform their duties voluntarily. We at the HSP Club have nothing against volunteering. But with one addition, the mayor and the mayor who are directly elected to the elections in those duties can act on these duties as a volunteer, but must not be employed anywhere else, or must not have a working relationship anywhere else. And in conclusion, on behalf of the HSP Club, I can point out once more that we have no objection to the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and that this is a good initiative. However, we cannot support this very proposed law, because of a good initiative, the promoter has actually proposed one by one of us an absurd bill that is actually inconclusive on the ground, and we can conclude why something would be as simple as it can be. Because this is very complicated and this law club of HSP can't support it like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87678	Thank you. The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati and Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87679	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party has been and is now and will advocate the direct election of local and regional leaders, i.e. regional self-government. For us, it's an important civilization step, but for all of us, it's still an important challenge. Because together, I hope so, we'd like to pass a better law with as few unknowns as possible, but also with as few concerns and undefined situations as possible. In HSS, we also worry that today a large number of current mayors, mayors, so potential candidates for the same duties, we hope the new law, is not yet sufficiently addressed to important changes for the elections, but also in the process of the very behaviour of the authorities, in particular, the leader of the directly elected head and representative body. Then how, of course, will the average voter understand what kind of important changes this is? So let's be open and clear, and even so far local elections have been generally chosen by people, not parties. So the average voter has been choosing his captain directly for a long time. And since he has voted for a person so far, for a man, this new law will not be some important step, or new model. However, persons who will exercise power in an executive manner or if we talk about the representative sea have a clear law in which there will be no ambiguity and doubt as this Final Proposal of the Law gives us MPs. Let's just look at some of the key questions. Of course, it would be more appropriate to talk today about what resources the municipal chief, the mayor, will have, in the end and the mayor, and we, on the issue, have not spoken more seriously about the financing of local self-government until now during this term. Instead of having a parallel discussion on the financing or fiscal decentralisation of local self-government or the area, how to provide municipalities and cities with a minimum of 25% of total tax revenues, instead of today talking about an independent decision by the State Department of Statistics on the division of Croatia into three statistical regions, which will not bring between 20 and 25 million euros annually to the counties of northwestern Croatia, with which much could be done. We here, by force of opportunity, have to outsmart who will replace and control who. Of course, these are important questions, too important if we have a financially strong unit of local, or regional self - government. Of course, we are talking about the process and decentralisation of local self-government and regionalisation processes. What I would like to present briefly here is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, which is divided into benches, and one good part refers to the relationship between the local, or regional self-government and the representative body. In fact, we are in our amendments, a total of three here are in front of you, mostly referring to what has been said so far. This mentions, among other things, the non-acceptable provision in Article 8(4) of the new Article 40, where it writes if it ceases the term of office of the Deputy Mayor, Mayor or Mayor, the early elections will not be called. I must say that the deputy mayor, or mayor or mayor, has great obligations, and of course rights, especially in the absence of local or regional self-government leaders. If the deputy ceases his mandate by law at the very beginning of the term of office, the question arises who will change directly the elected mayor, mayor, mayor. We must not and cannot ignore such an opportunity that, at certain times, would completely block the work of the municipalities, the city or the county. It is therefore proposed that the solution that we are offering here is that the representative body may choose their deputy and or from outside the ranks of the representative body, however, but on a proposal of course by the mayor, mayor or mayor. I repeat, this is how it is written here in Article 8 quite unacceptable. Furthermore, in the same article, since there is clearly and most of what is happening, and most of all the remarks so far have been made in the next paragraph, it is said exactly how, as most votes will be resolved, they will actually make a decision on the calling of a referendum, regardless of what we call a referendum or a statement or whatever. We believe that most votes are not a good provision, but we suggest that it be a two-thirds majority of the votes of all members of the representative body. Namely, this amendment gives a stronger influence to the representative body and means the very decision to call a referendum. Because the two-thirds majority can indeed be treated as a general mood, eventually by voters. The Institute of Disbandment of the Representative Body is very rare, only in exceptional situations is used in developed democratic societies and the referendum should not be used in the matter of failure, you know. Then even the councilmen sitting there, if anything, if there is good reason to call a referendum, to vote no confidence to the mayor or mayor or mayor, will always be a little afraid of what if we fail and we will be disbanded. So we should still leave this possibility of not disbanding the representative body. The article also responds to the referendum. Of course, the response has already been said, which means 33%, I wouldn't talk about it, but if, at the voter's request, the decision on the resolution of the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor and their deputies, is understood. The voters could not launch an initiative to hold a referendum before the deadline of 12 months from the previous referendum on the same issue. It's an institute that's kind of recognized and used everywhere. I'll certainly say two or three sentences about the budget itself. The process of budgeting has so far been legally as correctly and well defined and accepted both among the council members and members of the chieftains and the mayors, the mayors, and ultimately the voters understood that. However, this final draft law on... who proposes the budget is not defined. [[You don't understand.]] If no one is brought forward to suffer the consequences, it is not defined. In our opinion, we should work this out as well as on a series of these questions that I've been talking about so far, so I'm asking my colleague Kolara to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87680	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to continuing with the law in question. I, as head of the local administration, must now say in the fourth term that I feel uncomfortable because it's time for me to leave my job to the new man, but I think we're playing you're actually gay, and in fact nothing's going to happen. Namely, this is the illusion that we are now being created to go to direct elections for the first time, and I am, say, 64, 65, 67% and 67%, and what kind of elections were they, and I'm asking myself absolutely by majority or fellow Mršić or not to speak now. Let's not turn these leaders into some big icons and give them some big rights. Now we're actually trying to manipulate people who go into one uncertainty in this way and don't really know what's waiting for them. In your opinion, the direct choice becomes the leader and that you have powers or rights in this law doesn't say that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually an undefined status of local self-government and regional self-government leader in this way as it is set up. As long as there is no legal obligation between the representative body and the executive authority, then all improvisation is made. I assure you that even now this law is being passed so that it begins to apply in the month when the elections are, so that's crazy. So far, we have had an obligation to bring our statutes in line for the possibility of head of change and councils when we were established. Well, this law has to say the same thing. Because we can't go to elections to choose by the old law and make statutes so that new ones can be enthroned. Where was that said? What article regulates and how? So absolutely, I'm the one and the club of HSS who supports it, but please let's take some time now as long as it takes and fix this all that's not good. I don't understand that by abolishing the headship, you're careful by abolishing the headship, we have a mayor who doesn't know who he's proposing a budget to and who adopts it and who spends it. In what article is that mentioned and how does it define it? Well, it's a basic act that leads to a crisis of government, disbanding representative bodies, new elections and everything. If that's defined and hidden somewhere, give it to us today at the pay phone. We accept it as such, but I don't see it in this amendment and supplement the law in which it proposes it, when it proposes. Well, we finally gave the local committees legal status. They're after this today I have to disband them by the new now. So why did we give it to them? Let's define it and say that we skipped ourselves or that we went too far, let's go back and they're actually nobody and nothing again. Where they find themselves in the budget, which is why we've had direct ones so far, now we've had elections for them, we've had to do it, etc. This law doesn't like the local committee anymore, it simply abolishes it because it has to be abolished, given its authority. I'm asking you now why we now have people who would choose, who would have full legitimacy, put them in such a situation that they can't rule and in what way. Let's copy them. So I remind you finally Mr. Secretary of State, the Law on Local Servants, so we don't have it so far, we improvise, we don't really know the status of those employees we have and how we receive them and all together, we apply some laws adequately to interpret ourselves as we know them and we can do it. Let's define more things before then, and then it's clear status and everything. So our proposal from the HSS, this doesn't have to be the final bill now, not even voted. Let's take the time, stop at the ball, and let's have a debate at all in this debate that's coming and we're all finally in one doubt, because obviously if I don't get it, it's not clear to us MPs, this on the ground isn't clear yet. Give us good arguments. You're proposing a new solution and nothing happens for another two months, three months without passing that law, it has to be passed or it doesn't have to be now, but it would be good if those things were defined by the powers and rights and that relationship between the representative and the executive body. I wouldn't work in this House to raise my hand if we had a formal representative body, that we had a formal direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, and that eventually it all fell into our water because it doesn't work. So please let that or the third reading or let it be delayed to vote on the amendments and let it be fixed in a way that is detailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87682	Thank you. At 10.53, it was time to apply for the debate for 10 minutes on this agenda point. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87683	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The essence of this Law is the way everyone talked about it before me, the mayor, or the mayor. So this defines the way and the solution to their choice. The election is direct, it's okay, but here there are a whole series of objections that the MPs have been talking about, and I'm going to talk about one grudge of another nature. Let us begin with this Article 9, to quote it by the municipal mayor, the mayor, or mayor, has a deputy elected in direct elections according to the special law, is referring to the selection of minority, deputy mayor, mayor, mayor, exclusively from the provision of paragraph 1 of this article on units of local, or regional (regional) self-government in which members of national minorities participate with more than 15% in the total population of units, i.e. local, regional (regional) self-government units, where members of national minorities make up the majority of the municipality's population, mayor, or mayor, respectively, have two deputies in units of local, or regional (regional) self-government in which members of national minorities participate with more than 15% in the total population of units, etc. And so on, not to quote everything. So the grudge's on this 15%. According to that logic, neither in the County of Istria, which is the bilingual county of the Deputy, for example. The mayor or mayor of Pula could not be from the ranks of the de facto Italian community. Why? Because the representative of the Italian minority in those areas after the exodus, etc. He doesn't live more than 15% today. For us, it's unimaginable, it's unnatural, it's against the habitat of that space, as if in that 15% some law or legal provision had written for the County of Istria. Personally, I believe that this criterion should not be defined by this Law, but rather, the problem should be regulated primarily by the statutes of the unit of local self-government and constitutional laws that define minority issues. Where according to the constitutional law, the constitutional law mentions freedom of local self-government, or where there is so-called. International contracts this Law cannot impose rules of conduct but should leave this clearly to local self-government. It could happen, for example. in one Pula for the first time since '45. The year of Deputy Mayor Pula, for example. It doesn't come from the ranks of the Italian community or vice versa, and I think it's a civilizational and democratic one serious handicap if that happens. This would in some way affect international law, meaning that these conventions should also be taken into account. It can't happen I don't know how to with this court in Rovinj who the note ben is bilingual to suggest, and that will be the third point of today's agenda, its merger with the one in Poreč. It's certainly not even natural, it's harmful, it's unnecessary, it's kind of provocative, literally at the level of political provocation. To be specific, IDS is for the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors regardless of what I personally think is the best electoral law Croatia has ever had when it comes to choosing the bodies of the local self-government that we had in '93. when 50% of the council members were elected from the list and 50% in election units. I'm in a way and I'm afraid of the overpower of individuals, but the citizens now want a direct choice, if that's what you want, then you'll have it. What is currently happening with the existing electoral system in small constituency, however, has simply grown into an absurd, pure proportional system that was founded there in 2001 simply proved absurd. For example. Eight days ago, we had an election for the municipality council of Krsan Municipality. There's been 10 lists. The 10 lists highlighted 6% to 7% of citizens of the entire municipality. It's like if there were between 80 and 90 thousand, 60 and 70 thousand people in Zagreb, let's say there were a million people. With their families, about 20 to 25% of citizens were pre-determined, pre-involved in the elections. De facto you're fighting, and the response was about 67, 68% for 40% of the citizens. Well, now if you get 50% of these 40% votes, you can get somewhere up to 20 and 6, 7, 8 percent, and now you win when everyone crosses the electoral threshold on the proposed system itself. So much of this law on direct choice is somehow followed by one logic of the thinking of a simple citizen, although I personally think that the best law was the one we had in '93. When 50% of the councilmen were elected directly, 50% on the list. The citizens want something else, we have to let them do it. Is that going to cause any trouble now? E will. Where? Where will that trouble come from? First of all, it will create these small environments that count to a thousand or up to 2 thousand inhabitants, where 330, somewhere perhaps 200, somewhere 600 votes de facto is enough that you can launch the impeachment of the head of the municipality, and that is relatively easy to get, and in Croatia on the other hand of those 550 units of local self-government de facto you have two thirds that do not have more than 2,000 inhabitants. These 33% have probably logic in one Zagreb, it makes sense in Rijeka, Pula, Split, in the county, it doesn't matter, Primorje-goranska, Istria, but does this percentage make sense in one Krsan or another smaller Lanist with 390 inhabitants, in one Lupoglav which may have a thousand, in one Oprlje with 800 etc. Article 40 of this Act means b, paragraph 6 of this Article, that a decision on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputy has been made if at least 33% of the voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city, or county voters have been submitted to the referendum on the matter referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the majority of voters who went to the referendum for the resolution. This means that 16.6% of the votes de facto are sufficient to replace someone in such a form or in that same article, which, 2 or not, 8 in fact, states that if a decision on the resolution of the municipal head, mayor or mayor is not taken in the referendum, his deputy to the referendum responds to at least 33% of the voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city or county voters, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body and appoint the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the tasks of the representative body. Article 40(2) of the representative body will decide on the holding of a referendum if the proposal referred to in the preceding paragraph supported at least 33% of voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city and county voters. I mean clearly as proposed, it's clear. But it is also extremely delicate that it simply does not delegate an entire legislative proposal that will ultimately become its opposite. There may be so much tax here that there should be cases where there is even a referendum. The referendum is a form of direct democracy, and we all agree. But in these small units, it can be easily transformed into a form of manipulation. And so much for the referendum should be clearly but the rules must be clear and unequivocal. Article 13 decides on the acquisition and alienation of movable, immovable and property of units of local self-government or regional (regional) self-government whose individual value does not exceed 0.5% of the amount of income without income in the year preceding the year in which they decide to acquire and alienate movables, real estate and up to a million kuna. That applies to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. On the other hand, it apostrophes the role of the congregation and the council. That doesn't mean the chiefs will be Caesars. That means they'll actually be blocked into work and too controlled. And local self-government just because of such provisions may be blocked. The mayor must also have such freedom of action. This norm will cause enormous problems. But the one, he says he'll calculate everything in the bodies at 16. The Council will get an even bigger role than boredom in some way, although it may not seem so at first sight. All in all, the Law on direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors must be required. This law is clearly bad. If he excludes minority participation, he's extremely dangerous. At the state level, on the other hand, we fought there in 2000 to replace the presidential system with a parliamentary system, and in a local way we introduce a papal structure. That's not right. But if the people ask for it, let them be, they will be. Finally, again, to be honest, whatever proposed will be better than this purely proportional system introduced in 2001 that still applies today. This model of local self-government today is bad. He's not promising. That system needs to be changed. But once again I will say, precisely because of these attributes of minority representation, whatever Mr Kovacevic thinks about it, the law is also dangerous. What a direct choice of commissioners will be a good model remains to be seen. We support him. But let's also think about the 50%, 50 model. The essence is clear not in selecting some mayor, mayor, mayor or their resolution when it comes to local self-government, but about decentralisation. Without it, there is no development and no Croatia. Without it you have only one absolute control of local self-government from one centre, without decentralisation we have metropolis, without decentralisation we have a lag behind all other parts except Zagreb. I came to Zagreb today, from Rijeka to Zagreb I did not pass 40 trucks. This is the problem of the Croatian pair of excellent. We're not developing, and then we're clearly lagging behind. And a good culprit to that is this very centralization whose foundations are set in the wartime, but unfortunately this structure corresponds to someone in the peacetime. And there's really nothing going on, nothing changes, no matter what government is in the position of power. When, on the other hand, was Croatia the fastest to develop? The fastest developed by the '74 Constitution, when the country was most centralized, when the municipalities chose not only the chief of police, the catastra, the finance but even the judge that was not well, maybe it's better than what we have now. And when they had municipalities and 60% of the fiscal income that was made at their premises. Therefore, behind all that my predecessors have said, higher than this Article 9, this minority component is clearly, in my opinion, a civilizational backward and compromises one in the principle of consensus accepted initiative or the intention to elect mayors, mayors, mayors directly. Unfortunately, the law does not say anything about decentralisation and it is extremely inaccurate, in one word it leads to or will only lead to enormous problems. And the correct thing would be for the law to go in the third, fourth, fifth, or as someone throws the sixth reading. One word should be stopped by now by the legislators of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87685	Mr. President, Comrade Cain! In the history of the Croatian people, an exodus of members of national minorities and neither the Italian national minority, which today has no 15%, and 50 years of the Yugoslav state, the exodus of the Croatian people from their own country was carried out, and this was confirmed on Bleiburg four days ago. And stop telling lies because you are a representative and you must be responsible under the Constitution for what you say in the Croatian Parliament about the history of the Croatian people from the past, the present and the future. And a lot of... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87686	For the club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative, Vice-President of the House of Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87687	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSLS Club have carefully considered this law. In fact, all the members of our club are also practitioners. We're either acting on our duties in local self-government or we've done that job before. Although HSLS is a party that supports the government's work, I must tell you that this law cannot be supported. First of all, as practitioners, as advocates who have seen a number of shortcomings in this law. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. But I'm drawing attention to another fact. In fact, the debate on this law that I have followed so far has been attended almost exclusively by those who meet with this law on a daily basis in application, so regardless of the political colors, we all seem to have seen the same shortcomings, so I call on the promoters to really think about our arguments and accept that this law is not discussed as a final version because it is truly inconclusive, would cause quite confusion in the conduct of this responsible business. And I think we can find the solution in the third reading. Although he tries to resolve certain matters in a quality way, it is a division of powers between the direct executive and representative body, relations between the directly elected municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies, the holders of the powers and procedures of resolution are defined. What can be good is the right of members of the representative body to ask questions about work to the mayor, or mayor, and ask for specific reports which I must honestly say, and so far there was nothing that could not be done. So, it's not some big newspaper, but it's okay to regulate the law this time, even though the mayors, the mayors and mayors actually take on all these sessions with continuous reports just depends on topics and points. But this time prescribing the reporting obligation for a half-year is not bad, although I say it's not some big newspaper. I will draw attention to this part of which we have warned everyone about, so because we all speak equally regardless of the authorities or opposition, the referendum on resolution is, above all, question its compliance with the already existing Law on Referendum. And you have to ask who it is who actually makes these assessments. I'll beg you, Mr. President, to allow me to discuss this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87688	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87689	Namely, who will determine since local authorities are in charge of the Central State Administration Office. The question arises who will then decide whether or not the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor, worked illegally because it really opens up a space for direct interference, i.e. the incurring of the central government into a legally guaranteed local self-government. That question therefore needs to be precise and I fear that there are always some political games as different trades have been so far. This time it is possible to take a step further to the harm of not only local authorities but also citizens who pay it. As regards the cause of material damage, it is indeed necessary to determine who is relevant to determine whether it is done. It can be recognised here that the amount of damage is determined, however who will determine what is the damage, what are the additional criteria. There's no way this can be allowed to remain unclear. Whether damage will be decided by the State Audit, which may be logical, only a representative body, the Ministry of Finance or the worst version of the Central State Administration Office. So without that completely clear answer, I don't see what is actually the purpose of this proposal. One of the possible suggestions when damage has already been determined and additional criteria are missing might indeed be to determine that this is a non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act. It can already be a reason to initiate impeachment, to disrespect the Public Procurement Act because it is then quite clear that it is very likely that damage has occurred. Otherwise, we believe that possible solutions in these conundrums, which the whole law is open to, in fact, are very well addressed in the association of cities where a referendum on the resolution of local leaders is discussed, by two-thirds of the members of the representative bodies, in order to prevent the destabilising of local authorities or the intentional cause of such instability. You can be sure, I dare say it on behalf of all the different parties of all of us who speak. There's no personal fear, but we as practitioners really know what it means to cause a crisis at any moment, how much it actually costs. The referendum costs, a referendum retains cities, municipalities and districts in development for several months. So if you take into account that parliamentary elections happen in four years, then you have the preparation, then you get the government together, so when you take that same thing for locals, you'll get the calculation that you're actually losing almost half the term of office, and that's for every government, for every development too expensive. I would only ask, indeed, Mr. Palaric's explanation of whether this law is in accordance with the referendum law. I think we need to clarify that question because this seems to be some kind of new kind of referendum. It is possible, indeed, because we have all debated similarly, regardless of our differences, that in the third reading that I am proposing, because I am telling me in HSLS we cannot support it in this form as well as a political consensus because there are indeed issues that are worth no matter which political parties come from, and that in such discussions, the discussions and other topics that have been opened, which is the division of Croatia to the region and financial decentralisation. Because it turns out that we and this law were more concerned about how the chairs get or get rid of them instead of determining that those directly elected would be able to decide what they were specifically in charge of. I think it's completely wrong. And here I am sorry this law cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87690	Thank you. For PGS, SBH, MDS, the respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87691	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the office, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen. Here's what you want me to do on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS club. Our club will not support this law for the same or similar reasons as the predecessors who have therefore debated this law. So we think that he does not rightly resolve the questions asked, these questions are very sensitive. On the one hand, we would therefore like to meet the conditions to directly elect our mayors, mayors and mayors, where we ask certain questions as well as others. On the other hand, we want these mayors, mayors and mayors to be on the one hand and strong, independent but on the other hand to have some control over their work. And in that part of it, I don't think this law has been worked out enough. What we would also like to warn is that this law must also ensure the stability of government behaviour in our municipalities, cities and counties. What does stability mean? This means that these authorities are stable, i.e. that most of them or the vast majority of them therefore have the same power from the beginning to the end of the term of office, i.e. that this power is being exercised by those who received the most votes in the election, i.e. They got the voter's trust. Unfortunately, that's not the case now. Often and often so it happens that authorities change overnight, so that different combinations agree, often those who have received less or less than one vote act in a municipality, county or city. We think we need to change that. So the future law must be a guarantee of stability, not a generator of new possible instability in our municipalities, cities, counties. And we fear, therefore, that this law does not meet the challenges in the right way, but that the opposite will become the source of further instability. During the debate in the first reading of this law, I therefore warned of one of the results of this political instability, so turbulence in our municipalities, cities and counties and the decline of public confidence in Croatian political parties, therefore. And then I also cited data from a survey that was conducted months after the 2005 local elections. The survey discussed a trust assessment, an assessment of confidence in state institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And so on a scale of 1 to 7 political parties were in the back. So their trust assessment just dropped to number two, grade two. Four years ago, it was 2.1. So we all have to work together to restore citizens' trust with this law. What this law should therefore change or secure. The most important issue, therefore, which should be addressed and defined by this law, is the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority, i.e. the division of competences with the council, i.e. The congregation. We don't think it was done the right way. It should also be warned that the direct selection of leaders, commissioners, so the mayor, does not mean both the unlimited powers of these officials, and it is necessary to ensure control mechanisms, rules of recall and calling for new elections. There, therefore, should be careful. It has already been rightly warned here that the question is recalling perhaps the most important issue that is being raised here, which is being resolved. In our view, therefore, it is not well solved because the office of mayors, mayors and mayors is too little, on the one hand, too little protection. Namely, some countries allow elections to be based on impeachment to replace the directly elected executive holder. So it's our commitment to bring that provision into our law of impeachment. Some other countries do not have at all provisions on elections based on impeachment. So the directly elected holder of the executive authority remains in office until the end of the term of office or until the early termination of the term of office under the law, e.g. death or imprisonment, etc. In countries where there is no provision for selection on the basis of a recall, this is usually justified by the fact that the possibility of recalling can create political instability, interfere with policy development and implementation and result in short-term rather than long-term planning. So we have therefore defined ourselves as a principle for the possibility of introducing an institution recalling the mayor, at least in some circumstances so that the citizens, the mayor, would be impeached, i.e. to be controlled by the representative body. So if there is such a commitment to impeachment then the recall provision must be carefully prepared to comply with the principles of the electoral system set up by the mayor. This is therefore the basic, legal basis, so the constitutional principle in a way or under similar or similar conditions that the mayor has chosen, it may be removed. Thus constitutionally, therefore, legal experts suggest that this can take place in several points. First, the grounds for impeachment must be clearly laid down in the law. Secondly, such a procedure can only be initiated by petitioning registered voters, therefore only those who chose the mayor and the supported signatures of at least 30.33 registered voters. Third, the reasons for the impeachment must be clearly stated in the position. Fourthly, the Constitutional Court must consider petitions, issue a solution determining whether the arguments are presented in the petition correctly, and if they are the legal basis for impeachment. And fifthly, in order for the recall to succeed, the number of impeachers should be more than 50% of registered voters, or the constituency. So there's an analogy with the electoral system. We know that mayors, mayors and mayors should therefore be elected in two circles, so the winner is who in the first or second round gets an absolute majority. The same principle should apply in our opinion and recall. Therefore, this is one could say the ultimate form of impeachment to the mayor. The government therefore proposes to include a representative body in the recall process. It would be good for us to include a representative body in that impeachment, but with different powers. The government therefore proposes that the initiative could be proposed by 1/3 council members, and the decision to call a referendum so that the ordinary majority can submit. In order to protect and protect both the Commissioner and the Council on one hand, it is our proposal to apply this in such a way that the representative body with an absolute majority can launch an initiative, i.e. that the decision is being initiated by 2/3. I think that would be good and that would be one of the possible solutions. I also think that I am a referendum, that its basic settings must be based therefore on the Law on a referendum that also speaks, here I will quote, in Article 6: "The local referendum decides on the majority of voters who voted on the condition that most of the voters enrolled in the list of local self-government units...", which means, 50+1, "... that is, the unit of administration and self-government in which the referendum is called.". So we could say the same number of voters selected by the commissioner can also be resolved. I think it's the same should be included in this law. The other problem, therefore, is the issue of relations between the executive and the legislative authorities. Namely, the direct choice of mayors by voters can represent a fundamental change in government at the state and local level. It causes the separation of authorities between the directly elected holder of the executive authority and the legislative authority or representative body, with the executive authorities previously subject to the control of the legislative authority because of the power to appoint mayors and members of the local headship. Since all authorities, that all authorities have previously been subject to some form of control by the representative body, it is also critical to have clear legal provisions defining the roles and relations of different local self-government institutions. Unfortunately, this law has not been achieved by us. Here we heard in the debate that, to ask the question of who, under what conditions and how can it bring the state budget? So the basic thing is actually what every municipality or city or county is dealing with. We think that this should certainly be defined in order to avoid future tensions between the executive and local authorities. What we'd like to warn you about, too, is that the law is undefined. In fact, in Article 13, the other articles of this law also transfer the powers of the Headship to the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. Just to remind you of the authority of the Chief. So Chapterwork: Preparation of proposals for general acts, execution and ensuring the execution of general acts, directs the operation of administrative bodies, manages and disposes of real estate and movables. It's limited now. It shall also carry out other tasks established by the Statute. There's no headship. So now we have the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. So we have the Chief and his administrative departments and his supervisors. So it's a set that will run the municipality, the city or the county. But in the experiences that we have today in practice that many mayors, mayors especially and mayors choose their own advisors, right? It's actually parafunctions or parathies. There's a danger that unless it's... a body or such function included in this law that it will be on the ground very, very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it'll certainly collect the work of our local community. So even today in cities, while there is a chieftain, there are members of the headship in charge of certain resolutions, while there are certain leaders again we have employees and a number of advisers. People with vague functions but with very clear incomes and salaries on the municipal, city or county budget. I think that should be defined. That you should consider keeping the headship as an institution. So that the chiefs remain as if they were bodies that would perform their duties. That they have their own specific resors just as they have, as has been the case so far, that their number is limited to the size of a specific municipality. So we would define that to the end, and we would prevent the possibility that different parasites or different parafunctions would appear in the system. So here are some of those basic remarks. And just for the end, I agree with those that it's just one small part in the functioning of local and self-government. And just to remind you of this same law that functions as a unit of local self-government? So with a warning that today our municipalities, cities and counties do not have the money to perform these functions. Therefore, according to Article 19 of the Local Self-Government Unit, in their own self-government work is done locally, and so on: urban planning, spatial planning and urban planning, municipal activities, child care, social care, primary health care, education and primary education. Culture, physical culture and sport, consumer protection, protection and improvement of the natural environment, fire protection of civilians. The County also runs education, health, spatial, urban planning, economic development, transport and transport infrastructure, planning and development of a network of educational, health and social cultural institutions. For all these functions so today our municipalities, cities and counties do not have enough financial resources. And the question is, therefore, what is the future of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia so that this changes according to the standards by which they operate in Europe as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87692	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87693	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting only one incorrect allegation, although the colleague is right that it is a big mistake to remove the headship because the fact that the elected mayor will be able to appoint an advisor means nothing to him. 'Cause he's the one who comes as a straight-up pick. There's no team of its own, and then how it's going to work, and on a worse condition, let's just say that it's also a representative body that doesn't have a majority. So it's better to resign immediately because he can't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87694	SDSS's respected representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87695	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to track down those discussions that we have both at the club and in the bodies, and even in this room, when we talked about the content of the law at the beginning, I'm going to present here the position of our club on two things. First, this issue, this issue of provisions that speak of facing the views of directly elected mayors, commissioners and so on. And directly elected members of the representative body. It's simply about people and functions that have been given by the criteria of choice in the same way and in equal strength. And of course that's the issue where different attitudes and different conflicts make confrontations work, body work in that unit. We had our doubts earlier. I can say that this dilemma has remained and is now in a way or is it said whether this proposal allows for a precise solution if such a solution of the problem would occur if such a blockade occurred. Our view of it could be said next. What is given in the law, of course, does not guarantee in a precise way the provisions in order to or does not guarantee the mechanism of the proposition to resolve the blockade. But I have to say right away that if and if someone else did the other version, I'm not convinced that there's someone or some situation or some moment when you can solve it so well that then we know completely how we're going to solve the blockade. Or that we have provisions that are so precise that there is no doubt. And just because I'm not convinced that it can be solved in such a precise way, this is the solution that has been given in the law acceptable. Another thing that can be said in that context. Some of this in view of the political consolidations that we have on the ground and which will continue to be held and changed in various times due to various relationships very often, then probably the practice by which this law will show its effectiveness, its efficiency, and in some ways logically its solutions will indicate how the thing should be fixed. That's why these dilemmas I've started I'm aware of need to leave some time hoping that what's in these provisions and in this law offered as a solution will be a good mechanism of implementation in practice. We'll see how it goes. The second thing I have to say here is this question of the second deputy chief or mayor on the basis of the right arising from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. That's this provision, that's this article the ninth. Here's just a quick reminder. Here you have a solution to make, to the minority 15% etc. The majority of the people in the same constitution are entitled to another deputy. That's a good solution. You have a further provision saying that such a deputy is chosen by secreting from the representative body. That also means some kind of appointment. He therefore does not choose directly according to this proposal. I don't think that's good. In the discussions we had on the board, and I heard somewhere else, it was said to us by chance as an explanation. You know, it's settled in some other law, so now we can't make any combinations. But I remind you that this proposal here speaks of the choice of another deputy, by what criteria. Therefore, after which the proposition(s) met and speaks of such a deputy having the same status and competence as the one chosen by direct elections. If you have in principle a saying if you have such a provision or such a solution in this law, then I see no reason why in this place you would not enlist that another deputy is chosen by direct elections as these others. It's not clear to me that it wouldn't belong to the matter of this law. I am encouraged that, and in the debate, I have noticed it including the committee, the position of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure, so I am encouraged to have a large number of clubs here and there, and the committees are also pushing for this second deputy to be elected by direct elections. I hope we've actually cleared that up and I hope it goes away. We've given up on that amendment. I'm counting on that, I'd like that amendment to be ours just an initiative that the proposer will accept both as his own idea and as his own solution. It's a comment on these two things that I had the need and the will to say in this place. Some other issues that are regulated in this law could also be commented on by some more precise analysis by face-to-face with arguments. But I'm gonna give it up because of what I just said. Some of this has to be checked in practice. We'll see how it goes. As for our commitment to support this, I think we'll do so in the context of the hope that this idea of the direct choice of another deputy will be accepted without a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87696	Thank you. The National Minority Representatives Club, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Minority Club has the following views on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. There are, of course, several ways to create chaos in one country, and it is unequivocally unambiguous to enable the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors without protection mechanisms that allow a functional relationship between the headship and the councils with the mayor for example or mayor who has to co-exist even four years with the opposition council and in some cases and with the mayor who cannot control his own headship and who can neither influence him nor have an extremely complicated mechanism of recalling it is certain that such a system will actually produce great trouble in Croatia if it is to be established. Of course, everything is not as black as it looks at first sight, and since such a law is not in the best interest of anyone, nor of opposition, and I would say that it is at least in the interest of the parties in power over HDZ. I believe it's a transition to call it that, the law, actually one of the many laws of election that have passed through this House and everyone knows that only the last law that comes before the election is the one that will be applied in the right elections, which will be concreteized and implemented. I wouldn't say goodbye to one such bracket, I wouldn't be surprised if this law was so complicated and so inapplicable just because no one wanted to apply it. Remember just a little bit how this concept came about directly. Cain talked about it before the people that he wanted it, there was one campaign in the paper, we all joined it, we all wanted to choose the mayor directly, but I don't see all of it, we all want it, now I'm putting myself in the role of a simple voter and I say, ordinary citizen and I say we do because it would certainly be one fairer way to choose, but he must have mechanisms that allow it to work. If they don't allow it to work, it will practically turn against itself and I don't believe that the promoters see it. That's why I think it's one and we at the National Minorities Club think it's one transition law, one law that's not final, and we'll see more laws in this House that will be at least one law before the elections that will regulate and that will regulate I hope for one more systematic, one better way of electing mayors, mayors and mayors because this is actually going to be impossible, it will be impossible to function locally. You see, of course, we have to act like it's the law that will come in the elections, although we don't believe it, so as a club of the National Minorities, we have certain doubts. Something has already been said about it here, but I'm going to further analyse this problem that could be complicated, which could actually be one discrimination against national minorities. In this final draft of the law, it is prescribed that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor have two deputies in units where members of national minorities participate with more than 15% in the total population of the units of local, regional or regional self-government, and that the latter is said to be, secondly, because he is a member of national minorities, the second is elected indirectly from the ranks of members of the representative body and from the ranks of members of national minorities. A particularly elected deputy would have equal rights and responsibilities as a direct deputy, although I am not sure that he can actually have the same rights to duties, of course I would not want to speak because duties remain duties, so that he can have the same rights if he is chosen in a different way than the first deputy. The proposal is explained by the need to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in relation to achieving the appropriate representation of members of the national minority in the units of local and regional self-government. This would allow members of national minorities from their ranks to choose a deputy municipal chief, but actually if they were elected, if the council chose them while the first deputy mayor would elect voters, we don't really see how he could be the expression of the minority electoral corps. He'd only be a political expression. He would be the only one who would be an expression of political will. Because even the mayor wouldn't be an expression of political will in the sense that he goes to the elections himself, it would be direct elections. Neither his first deputy, nor the leaders who would also go to the competition and not be chosen by the mayor himself, but the only one who would be except for other council members, the only one from the executive authority who would actually be a direct expression of political relations in the council itself, would be the unfortunate deputy mayor of the ranks of national minorities. It also raises another question. Here everything is now regulated based on percentages, but there are, and we are also on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, we have expressed that attitude, and we did not have an answer directly on what will happen. In Istria, for example. We have, there are no such percentages that would allow the deputy mayor of the Italian minority, but he's everywhere. Why? Because it's prescribed by the statutes. Will these statutes actually be recited by this law? We're not sure. We didn't get a guarantee about it. We didn't get a guarantee, and since that would lead to one regression in the rights of the Italian national minority. If it were to happen that they would no longer have a mayor, deputy mayor and since it is explicitly certain acquired rights are explicitly protected by an interstate contract between Croatia and Italy, I do not know how to come out of it except with the amendment that the National Minorities Club is proposing, and this amendment that we agreed to be solid and unique and will depend on our vote. The amendment reads as follows: In units of local, regional (regional) self-government in which members of national minorities participate with more than 15% of the total population of the unit. In units of local and regional, or regional self-government where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population, and in units of local and regional (regional) self-government, where their statutes provide for other deputies to choose members of national minorities, i.e. members of Croatian people when they are a minority in the population of one local and regional (regional) self-government. The second deputy shall be elected by direct elections in accordance with Article 40 of this Act. As I said otherwise, we think that this law and the one that preceded it will not solve the problem of the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors, so it will not solve the problem of the functioning of the local administration and will actually create one chaos in the country. Since we are at the point, however, that, that this is not the final draft of the law although it says it here, but that another law will come, not of course in this assembly, but before the election, we will still be bound, yet we must act as though it were and tie our voice to this amendment that we consider to be meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87698	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87699	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the state administration. We are just ahead of us with a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which governs the fundamental relations between the directly elected municipal mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputy and representative body units of local, or regional self-government. In a very clear way in practice applicable, we all know that we have been to such executive functions. Of course, the powers of the mayors, mayors and mayors are defined very clearly, easily, modernly, precisely in the spirit of local and regional self-government, and we often say that this is the charm of local and regional self-government and the determination of the procedure for the resolution of the mayor, mayor, or mayor and their deputy. It wants to achieve what we say from the beginning of a thorough renovation of local and regional self-government starting in '93. We say that there is and we want greater legitimacy, but we want a stronger chief, mayor and mayor because this is exactly what we get by their choice, by direct choice by citizens. We want to know by name and last name who and how can behave these responsible duties in municipalities, cities and counties. It also wants to include as many citizens as possible in matters with local authority and the greater responsibility of citizens with the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors themselves, and of course what they want to achieve is greater transparency of the budget of units of local and regional self-government to watch and watch every kuna. This is also a contribution to a better governance system, a greater stability of local authorities, i.e. regional self-government, because it has shown so far that the continuity of such authorities is better in each segment, not only in municipal, but also in social infrastructure. It also wants to highlight a higher degree of security and continuity in the work of the executive body of the unit and local self-government and solutions are indeed suitable times in which we live and not just legislation that we want to apply and a more developed world, but exactly what we lack. Therefore, the provisions are very clear. When the presidential body will call a referendum, what will happen if the referendum fails, which are the reasons, very precise and clear, and the consequences of what if the referendum does not resolve the mayor, mayor and mayor, which is for the representative body to really raise responsibility, but punish someone for a reckless political decision because the presidential body would be dissolved, new elections would be held, and would strengthen what I think is the real wish of this bill, the identity of the mayor, mayor and mayor who would then be the guarantee of one development in the continuity of the municipality, the city and the county in which they are in the area. The percentage is excellent, whether we call a referendum in this Act a referendum or a statement of doubt is justified, in all of this appears in order to clearly distinguish the Law on Referendum for other matters and it is precisely the percentage of the one that guarantees that elected mayor, mayor and mayor for 6 months that they will not be elected if he does not impose a unit in those 6 months, or the area in which the city and county is elected, that is when the head can really think no different than to leave his place and let those who will be elected directly in the re-elections. What has been a common brake so far is how the headship, i.e. the representative body, will be equipped with movable and real estate. Here it is very clear that the directly elected leader can, which is the value and well that the put value is neither market nor traffic, but the value itself will be the leader to assess what and how this value is that it can be acquired or alienated from movement or real estate. Every experienced leader will always be served by good consultation and co-habitation with the representative body in order not to be involved in the acquisition and alienation, and I would say the burdens here of real estate, but the burdens of budgets go to some risky unthinking jobs because the wish is indeed to make a team that can manage and develop in continuity for the municipality and the city where he is elected. Of course, this is also about the fate of deputies, and I think it is exactly what we want and we strive for when it comes to minorities that the most suitable and best solution is guaranteed to minority members, but also to Croats when they are in minority in the municipality, city or county that they can be presented in one best way. Of course, if an important provision in Article 25 of this Act is in force and is not necessary, I would even reduce the time limit to not from 90, but from 60 days the unit of local and regional self-government will comply with its statutes and general acts with the provisions of this Act. In this business, no one will start at zero. The existing Statutes can easily be adapted to this law. It's all about the computer, the vast majority are right on edge, and we don't need to slave for other deadlines. We would always make some decisions if someone else would make them, because we often bark whether we are in, whether or not we are watching how responsibility for a bad decision will be passed on to someone else. That is why precisely why the precision of the relationship between the representative body and the executive body is very well defined and what is very well defined for each commendation among other is precisely for the makers of this proposal, which was used by the knowledge and consultation of associations of cities. I would like more consultations with the Croatian Community of County. Of course, with the association of municipalities because that is how responsibility is created and for asking the opinion and for the person who gives the opinion that this opinion really has a foothold in what is happening in the municipality, city, or county. And to prepare to create a legislative system and standards that can primarily ensure progress and development because it is the municipalities and cities that feel the most about whether they are well made, whether they are well made, what is the communal fee, how much is the municipal contribution, whether the transport of cleanliness is large or small, whether the water compensation is good, whether the water is expensive or not? And that's what citizens feel every month in these municipalities, cities and less counties. So this proposal needs to be accepted, brought in as soon as possible, this is a second reading. We don't need countless readings and practice will confirm that there really is a charm of local self-government that makes life in these environments where perhaps nothing joyous happens during the year. There is no theatre that just now places in the city, municipal council and county councils such as to attract attention and guarantee safe development and democratic but also economical in the municipalities concerned. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87700	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87701	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this bill. And I have to say that regardless of the complexity of the matter he wants to regulate that I have rarely recently been on a smaller number of articles that change and supplement in one law found so many doubtful solutions that are questionable from a constitutional legal aspect, from a political legal aspect, from a systemic aspect, and if you want in the extreme line from the aspect of the relationship between local self-government and central government. First, let me begin the introduction of remarks that could be interpreted as easier remarks. Take only the new Article 35a, in Article 4, where it is said that members of the representative body may ask questions about the municipality’s head, or mayor, etc. about his work. We have in the Constitution in Article 85 of the Institute of Representatives as one of the instruments of control of the parliamentary authority over the executive authority or supervision of the work of the executive authority. In the local self-government, especially where representatives of the executive authority are elected and executive authorities are elected directly, such an institute must be built in particular, and this cannot be an option but must be the right of members of the representative body because they are chosen at the same level by the citizens themselves. And in this respect, the question here is not to conflict with the Constitution but to comply with analogy, by analogy which should be derived from the Constitution. Secondly, in Article 35b, paragraph 1 states that these holders of the executive authority are the municipal chief, mayor, mayor, etc., twice a year submitting a half-yearly report, and already in paragraph 2, you have the possibility that certain areas of work may be more tolerated. And what if the council asks more than twice to file a report on the work of local self-government units? I think we should put the word in here at least. The third is a question that is already relatively mild, and which already directly affects the issue of constitutionality and consistency on the one hand with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is the choice of deputies who would come from the order of national minorities. I would like to remind you that in Article 24(5), it stands out explicitly, members of the Council of National Minorities and I am now stressing and representatives of national minorities are elected directly by a secret vote over a period of four years, etc. Therefore, the deputy from the work of the national minorities of the commissioners, mayors or mayors must be elected directly and through a secret vote, that is number one. Number two, according to our Constitution, all national minorities are completely equal. And now there's a question. How will the representative body be provided if it selects the deputy mayor from the national minority line in fact this full equality except in the direct elections? That's different. And a third argument. You know in the law that we have yet to vote, which we have discussed quite a long time ago and it is called the Proposal for a Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, is said to be quoting paragraph 2 of Article 2, "The Municipal Commissioners, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb have deputies..." Therefore, the emphasis is on the plural "...which are elected together and at the same time, in the same way and in the same procedure." It is therefore impossible to choose one deputy in one way and the other in the other. And in this respect, it is quite clear that, in fact, this kind of manipulation, which is set out in Article 9, where it is actually required that the representative body chooses to actually make a discretionary decision or decision on the principle of political opportunity to the ruling parties or coalition in the representative body that it will receive for the deputy in that segment. The truth of the matter was that we could accept a different model of choice from the deputies at all, that the deputies were elected by representative bodies. And if he chooses representative bodies, then he must choose all deputies. They can't choose each other... And for that reason, I think that some of the solutions offered by national minority representatives through the amendments could be accepted and discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the question remains, in fact, to see in that segment whether it is the best solution. The fourth group of issues refers to a decision relating to movable and immovable assets with a value greater than 0.5% and a million kuna respectively. And now all of a sudden we're in a position... to give full authority to the executive authority and then we say the representative body will decide on that matter. And by doing so, the responsibility of the executive to decide directly on these issues is to raise or express doubts if I may say so that they will rightly and usefully do so. It remains a matter of shared jurisdiction. The representative body shall adopt the rules under which such decisions are made. They must regulate the conditions, criteria and methods of decision-making relating to the management and management of real estate and movable things that are above some value, now we are proposing 0.5% of the budget or I don't know a million kuna and must have the ability to control the control of the executive authority in this matter. Because, you know, when you take what a million kuna means, then you'll actually come into one situation that you won't have at all about this executed mayor and the mayor who as one of the arguments is that they would actually allow such an opportunity through direct choice to get the trust of citizens who have the right to local self-government and that at the same time the same trust that he has received is practically denied by the fact that the representative body will be able to do so... 0.5% and more because it will decide, not this operating body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, I'm opening the best question right now. The mayor himself can, he says, when he does his work, cause the local or regional self-government unit a significant material damage. Even for this, a referendum will have to be called to resolve it and, among other things, it will prepare that decision proposal and asset-value management over 0.5% to... a million kunas of any movable or immovable property that will need to be brought by a representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the representative body will rightly say you suggested it, we voted for it, we trusted you. You did the damage because the result was not achieved. We're looking for a referendum. What's the matter then? Because they're not only looking, but they have to call it legal. In such a situation, it is quite clear that, in fact, these solutions cannot remain resolved until the end, which is also more so in this part of Article 45(3), now suddenly under the notion of significant material damages of 1% of the budget of that same unit. Now the question is, is that the limit is 0.5% or 1%, what does that mean? Of course, when it's translated into money, then it's said and if 1% of the budget is more than 500 thousand kuna per... material damage is considered damage of 500 thousand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's the border now? Is that 500 thousand kuna or is it a million kuna? Obviously, in fact, the promoter is not even aware of what he's trying to do, nor has he decided what he wants to do. Another important question about this is the matter of the referendum itself. It is impossible to go with stricter demands for units of local self-government regarding petition and request to call a referendum than citizens have under the Constitution when they want to ask for a decision on the part of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the State or the Government. We have according to the Constitution that it is enough 10% of the electoral body to submit such a request and that a referendum is then to be called and we have a 33% requirement here, and when that 33% submits a request, then 33% is enough to go to the referendum, so practically those who have initiated the procedure and if they are half the majority of the vote, then it is a solution that is acceptable. By the way, this is completely contrary to the referendum law itself, and here it cannot be drawn to lex specialis because I would like to remind you that, in addition to the basic referendum law, there are amendments and additions to the law that amended Article 4. The law on a referendum where it is said that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, a referendum on issues which are within the competence of a representative body to decide. The representative body shall not decide on the selection of representatives of the executive authority or of the mayor and of the mayor, but shall decide on this directly by a citizen, or only if the conditions laid down by law can be called by a referendum and that decision shall be binding at that time. This is why it is obvious here that the referendum law will have to be applied, and this is the constituencies majority of the electoral body has to go to the polls and the majority who voted will have to make a decision on this. And the last thing that's very important. It is totally unacceptable to accept the solution if no decision on the discharge of the municipal chief is taken in the referendum, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body, appoint the Government's... here is suddenly the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of legality is replaced by the principle of political opportunity that enables the government, I do not believe that the government will benefit but enables it to actually by a discretionary assessment can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in moments to change the will of the electoral body in the area of units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's a disaster, and that's why I can't vote for this bill and I propose to the motionor either to pull it out of the procedure and do it or to go into third reading to get it done so that it doesn't have to be processed after the Constitutional Court's decision on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87702	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87703	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the event of a direct election of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor should clearly define the relationship between the representative and the executive body of the authorities. The definition of these relations is a prerequisite for establishing a balance between the representative body and the executive authority and thus ensuring the stability of the functioning of the authorities at local or regional level. According to the current Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the representative body chooses from its ranks the holder of the Executive Authority and therefore the head of the municipality, city or county is subject to control by a representative body that can vote in confidence and relieve him of his duties before the time to which he is elected. Such a legal solution has so far shown many shortcomings in practice, which is why we all agree because various trades and combinations have made it possible to distort the will of voters shown in local elections, enables the cause of the government crisis and, of course, the functioning of local authorities that are no longer in the function of successfully solving citizens' problems in this area but becomes a purpose for themselves. We still remember very well what happened after the last local elections and now almost two years after the election, attempts to buy councilmen have not stopped to come to power regardless of the election results. The most recent example of such behavior is the city of Makarska. The HDZ won four seats of nineteen in the latest local elections and in the meantime increased the number to ten council members and now it is now unscrupulous to take power because who cares about voters and their desire to vote clearly. HDZ doesn't want to think about it. To make the matter worse after the prime minister's recent stay in Makarska, the president of the local HDZ publicly declares that they are going to buy a councilman to reach ten hands and will then take over the authorities because they promised that to the president of their party. And it's pronounced as if such behavior is something of the most normal and moral nature and the HDZ sees nothing controversial in it. And not to say how scandalous and worrying it is that the Prime Minister is therefore the person who, in view of the function he's acting, should be the most invited to preserve and defend the basic principles of democracy, is using his visit to Makarska to give the green light to move towards power in this way. In addition to my claim that the local government and Prime Minister Sanader are involved directly in political relations, it is best to say that for the first time, it seems to me that we have a situation for the Central State Administration Office to convene a session of the City Council and not as it has been a practice so far that in similar cases the government is disbanding the city council, appoints a Commissioner and discuss new elections. How much this whole case became the best story and the fact that on Monday, at a press conference by the Hungarian HDZ, the president of the local organisation was on a direct phone connection with Mr. Palaric's office from which he was then helped with a question he did not know a concrete answer. And then during that same press conference, a call arrives for the City Council session of the City of Makarska signed by Mr Palaric. All of this best speaks of the understanding of democracy in HDZ's way. All of this I've told in the best way indicates that it's high time something changed in the existing Electoral Law. We found the solution in the immediate selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors who are now taking over as executive authority. In the case of direct elections, the relationship between the representative body and the executive authority should be clearly and unequivocally defined. This is a whole new situation that requires detailed consideration of the relationship between the representative body and the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor. This requires me, and as many colleagues have said before me, in fact, a new and whole law, and not the whole problem of coming to terms with the shift of directly elected leaders, as these amendments and additions to the law are done, and in addition, in these amendments and additions, as we have heard from colleagues before me, there are numerous examples or numerous objections and indeterminateness. Article 4 adding new Articles 35a and 35b in Article 35a should stipulate that members of the representative body have the right, not to be able to ask questions to the municipal head, mayor or mayor and their deputies as well as to the Croatian Parliament. The law should make it clear that asking people in charge of the municipality, city or county is not only the right of members of the representative body but also their obligation. In this way, better control of the work of the Executive Authority by the representative body will be established and that control is necessary in the changed circumstances resulting from the direct selection of the municipal head, mayors and mayors and their deputies when they assume the role of the executive authority and thus gain significantly greater powers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 40a(4), it reads: "If the deputy mayor of the municipality is suspended, the mayor or mayor will not be called for early elections. Based on this formulation, it can be concluded that the mayor, mayor or mayor will continue to work without his deputy. I see no reason to distinguish between the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and their deputies in this way. The more they choose together in the direct elections, the more I see no reason why, in the event of the end of the term of office, no early elections would be sent to the deputies? In accordance with Article 40b of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Parliament, the Council and the Council, of the one part, are to be appointed by the European Parliament and the Council. What does that mean? Does this mean that this Commissioner will act as a whole representative body all the time until the regular elections or early elections will be held for a representative body, which I consider to be the only logical and acceptable solution. Because there is no reason for early elections to be discussed in the event of the end of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor, and in the event of the disbanding of the council or the county assembly, elections are not discussed but one person in the capacity of the government commissioner acts as a whole representative body. The decision on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies was made if at least 33% of voters enrolled in the list of voters responded to the referendum. Furthermore, paragraph 40c states that voters also have the right to propose to the representative body a referendum on the matter of resolution of mayors, mayors or mayors and their deputies and is deemed to be valid if it was supported by at least 33% of voters listed in the list of voters. The same percentage is therefore proposed for the response to the referendum and for the submission of a valid request by citizens to call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief and mayor or mayor. I do not see any logic here, and I believe that making a decision on the resolution of the head man is an important issue, and there should be an expression of will as many voters listed in the voter's list as possible, so if the legislator does not already comply with the provisions of the current referendum law, then at least the difference between the number of voters who will go to the referendum when it is called for and those who will sign or require the holding of a referendum. Finally, the reference to Article 23 amending Article 92 of the applicable Law is replaced by the following: I think that the provision of this article should be more detailed and clarifying what is meant by the terms of the affairs necessary for the regular and uninterrupted functioning of the local and regional self-government units from the day of the election to the day of the election of the new leaders. This clarification is necessary especially if we bear in mind that the directly elected head man of the municipality, the city or county will have much greater and wider powers than they had so far with the applicable laws, so it should be impossible for the notion of business that is necessary for the regular and uninterrupted functioning of the municipality, the city or county to be interpreted in different ways and in the way that at a given moment corresponds to which the possibilities of different abuses of positions and functions are opened. Therefore, in the end, I find that this law too is not good. He is not mature enough to vote and that he should actually approach one whole and one new law on local administration and regional administration and self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87704	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87705	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's counterpart Martic argues that changing the relationship between the ruling and opposition council members in the city or the municipality's understanding of democracy in HDZ's way is absolutely not true. It is the understanding of democracy in the way of opposition, because it is the opposition that wants and should by its definition come to power. It is also evidence that a number of SDP coalitions are on similar occasions where SDP has collated with almost ideological I will not tell the enemy, but opponents only to come to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87706	Second correction by Honorable Representative Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87707	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Inaccurately, counterpart Martic said that the president of the local HDZ at the anniversary of the Croatian Democratic Community in Makarska had said they were going to acquire, i.e. shopping as you said another councilman, and that there would be some disagreements in Makarska. That's just not true. The coalition, the former coalition in Makarska, did not work, many council members were dissatisfied because it was seen to be a classic SDP-led trade. And of course the legitimate right of councilmen who are democratically elected to do what is best for them in their midst, in their town, in their municipality. And you, your councilmen, are trying to use certain machinations to disprove the town's legitimate and legal right of councilman in a new exaggeration. And the goal, what I know from the opposition councilmen who are for a new solution, is exclusively the good of Makarska nothing else. And this is one of the classic policies that you used to debate the existing, existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87708	And finally the third correction, the respected representative Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87709	Thank you, Mr. President. I also feel the need to correct the incorrect, I would say the inappropriate claim by my colleague that Prime Minister Sanader was in Makarska in order to actually change I don't know anyone there. Here, it should be stressed that Mr. Prime Minister visits all municipalities and cities primarily as prime minister, visits both Brussels and Washington and Sarajevo as prime minister and should not be disturbed by anyone and his support to the party he is president of because it has nothing to do with the shift of someone at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87710	Replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87711	Comrade Martic, this law we're discussing today is one. For example, you set another example in your discussion, and I will give you a third example of the current government's relationship to local and regional self-government. For a month already, by ruling in all ways of efforts to prevent a parliamentary debate on the decision to divide Croatia into three Tobys only statistical regions, and this morning, a successful attempt has been made on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, which has not allowed or accepted the proposal to discuss it, and it is a decision that allows or does not allow, whether or not it allows part of Croatia to run for EU funds, gives or does not give the right and opportunity, especially after 2013, to use or run its programmes for the European Union's funds. The conflicting decision of the 2003 Parliament must not be discussed in the strictest conspiracy published in the National Journal. But today we are going to discuss a referendum that is not a referendum, but should now be called a plea. We will have a new form of direct democracy called a declaration. There is no colleague Arlovic to find me, do we perhaps have such a category of direct democracy in the Statute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87712	Reply to the replica honoured representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87713	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Lesar, here's exactly what you've just said and what I've been saying in my debate shows how important this law is, that is, how important it is to bring this law to such an extent that it cannot be manipulated and adapted to it in the way that individual structures do. And even though the HDZ colleagues were not happy with what I said, but they are facts, and that is what I did not say, but were declared by colleagues, that is, the leader of the Macarian HDZ, and I find that inadmissible. I know the Prime Minister is also the president of some party. That's how it's always been, and it'll be in the future. However, it is unacceptable for the government, or head of the government to interfere with local administration units...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87714	Comrade Martic, you have an answer to a replica that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87715	and self-government, and that's why I agree once again with you that this law that we're being proposed is actually not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87716	Some replicas, answers to replicas you use on the subject, not for other things because we will always come up. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87717	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The first thing I have to say is that today we are talking about a final bill that, if it was passed in the Croatian Parliament, it would have been applied since 17 May 2009. In fact, who guarantees that the new parliamentary majority will not immediately amend this law? And the other thing is that the problem is that when we move from one system to another, which is that we need to develop the relationship between the directly elected mayor, the mayor, the mayor and the representative bodies. You should have listened to our proposal to make a questionable period, which means that we set out a few municipalities and smaller towns in Croatia where, by now, direct elections have been held to test the solutions that are contained here, because we seem to be doing more and more work on this law, it is increasingly hollow and has more doubts about the challenge and uncertainty. It even seems to me that the solutions to relations that are regulated differently here are, for example, the mayor's example or the mayor's and the representative's body are better settled in the current law than in what's being proposed here. I'm just going to make a first example of the case to end the headships. I think they're bad solutions because of the fact. If a directly elected leader means coming, he's got support, he's chosen by will means the voters of that area, whether it's a city or a municipality, then he has to be given the opportunity to have it his own headship. Let him name him himself. There is no representative body naming him for the fact because he's got himself meaning directly as an individual he's chosen, he's got elections and it would be logical that he has the right to appoint his own headship. Because this is a worse variant that the chieftainships are gone. The leaders who already exist as such will remain and there may be a difference that they oppose him in the programme in which he won the elections. So he should be given the opportunity to have his own headship, to appoint him himself. Because of course he can't be or will know, nor can he know all the things that will be imposed before him as a directly chosen person, and the question that can happen to have obstructions for those who should help him, and these are the leaders who remain as such. And now take extra weight, if he doesn't have majority support in the representative body. Then it's smarter for him to resign immediately when he's elected if he can't have his headship because allies don't mean anything, and there's no support in the representative body either. Because since the developed relations in this law between the representative body and him are not going to be able to do any of what he has given in his program, which he has promised to implement in the work. Because he can expect obstructions all the time. On the one hand from the headmaster inside himself, on the other hand by the representative body. There's still no answer to the question of the budget. We know that normally this directly elected leader, so let's say the mayor is the one who proposes the budget. And the budget as such needs to be adopted by the representative body. But now there's nothing further going to happen if that budget isn't passed. There are variations, let's say, different ones that can be simulated easily. The first variant is that, say, the directly elected head proposes a budget but did not coordinate the revenue and expenditure side, right. Then he should be held accountable. The second option is that he has an obstruction in the representative body. So the budget he has under his programme and promised citizens that as such he will have a resolved revenue side, but he is given obstruction in the representative body and the representative body does not accept such a budget. So there's no such answer here. What and how in such situations? And I'm saying, there can be different reasons why there can be a bad relationship between a directly elected leader and a representative body. You know, questions don't have an answer. That is why the only solution is either to, or to the Government withdraw this legislative proposal or to refer it to the third reading. Not to talk about all those situations, even though I have to tell my colleagues and Lesar and the others that I personally have nothing against the direct statement of the citizens. Because direct democracy says there are a few situations where citizens directly plead, these are elections, these are petitions, they are referendums, so a statement. Gora is that variant where citizens are told you no longer have what, now the elections, in four years I'll do what I want because I got, so there's no citizen control, so direct, can't have any control because there's indirect democracy at work. And the indirect democracy says that someone, let's say here we represent about 30,000 citizens each of us. So we here about 30,000 Croatian citizens represent each of us. If you take the number of MPs, the number, so just take it, if 152 MPs are 4 and a half million divided and you'll get that number. So we don't decide here on behalf of ourselves or other variants. Or let's say that variant I've talked about enough, which is the variant when there's this relationship between the representative body and the directly selected one. Let's say now Mr. Mršić fired his daughter Fristic, and Friscic is in the Headship. And who now, not in the headship, but in the representative's body, will then support the budget of Mršić, because he resigned his daughter. So this law does not answer such questions or similar questions. So that's those questions, that's that part of the legal simulation. It's that part of the simulation of the law, what it means specifically. So that's why we should withdraw this bill. And we really need to enable a period to test solutions in some new extraordinary elections, let's take a couple of municipalities if it's going to happen or some smaller town, for example, in that part we could already do it, and then surely we'll be far smarter than we are right now. And when they look at each other, it means there's a lot of inadequacy, there's a lot of improvisation, and the question is what it's going to look like in the end. Just take this variant of what I was saying the last time I tried to solve it. Namely, they say within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the unit of the local and regional self-government will comply with the statutes and other general acts with the provisions of this law. Look, this law would mean that on 17 May when elections will be held and what, many issues here the law suggests that the statutes and other general acts should be resolved, which, if this provision is made, is settled in paragraph 2, that is, the provisions of the statutes which, otherwise, will not apply. But the law insists that certain issues are like those that are specific and must be regulated in part. So that's where we come in and this is how we get into a new problem. And now who will give these interpretations is whether the provisions are contrary, are not contrary, that is the automatic possibility of launching, or the actions of the Central State Administration Office, the issue of managing administrative disputes and everything else. It is therefore smarter to withdraw this law and solutions to try to simulate and try to give the possibility to apply the law as such tangiblely to some municipalities and cities where it will be held again, let's say, extraordinary choices to see how it will actually work. Here, thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87718	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I must correct the quote of counterpart Kovacevic, who says he should be given a direct opportunity to form a headship. It can't be because we can't have two bodies of executive authority in the municipality and the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87720	A colleague of Lesar's is not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87721	Allegedly, I'm correcting the assumption that he needs to be given an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87722	Well, that's not an allegation, that's a claim. It is the claim made by a representative of Kovacevic, who is one court of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87723	Which is not true, which is not true. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87724	Well, you can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87725	Well, it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87726	Well, you can't say it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87727	Well, it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87728	Well, you can't say that the court of law isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87729	But his claim is unconstitutional. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87730	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87731	So we have to correct that quote, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87732	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Zvonimir Mršić, the same correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87733	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87734	I'd correct the quote... I would like to correct the quote of counterpart Pera Kovacevic who said that we represent thousands of citizens here in the Parliament. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] That's not true. We here in the Parliament represent all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and protect the public interest. To be in Parliament, we needed a number of votes, someone more someone to come here and be representatives, but our constitutional obligation is to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So to protect the interests of those who chose you directly, they'd probably be doing something for Koprivnica because you were in the second constituency, and not only would they talk negatively about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87735	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87736	Well, Mr. President, the esteemed colleague Mršić, who resigned Mr. Fristic's daughter, was offended by his rules of procedure. In particular, Article 209 of the Treaty on the Because I said each of the MPs individually represents at least 30 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87737	It is again the correction of the incorrect allegations, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87738	And I'm, no, it is, but it can't be offended that I'm not doing anything for Koprivnica-Crysing County. I'm working because I'm saying you need to make a fast highway...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87739	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87740	He was in power, he didn't do anything, and now there's nothing to do, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87741	Okay, but it's not, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87742	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the government. Although we all looked forward to such a bill, which will finally regulate the direct selection of unit leaders of local self-government, I think that the issue of responsibility for each of us, regardless of political membership, requires us to vote against such a law. In fact, we all ideally support an idea that would show itself, that is to say, to bring life to life in this Law, but the issue of central government relations versus local self-government units is good in this way... And she's very bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will point out before I specifically state what is important for the relationship in this Law that needs to be resolved by the Commissioner and the representative body perhaps better than anything supports this text, that is, the guidance of the Ministry of Justice to local authorities. We remind you that in May, a joint session of the Croatian and Hungarian governments will be planned to discuss the issue of reciprocity between the two countries and we ask that you take all the items of acquisition of ownership of Hungarian citizens immediately into priority processing. Does this even need any comment? Are the items of economic crime or the sale of our land of urgency and the priority acquisition of Hungarian citizens at the same time that a Croatian citizen cannot, he was prevented from applying at all to the Hungarian authorities for return of the seized property. However, to return specifically to the bill itself. This bill of law leaves a whole series of misunderstandings. It has already been said that although the central government is aware of the possible situations in which individual, or most units of local self-government, are the main problems of the misunderstanding between the executive and the representative body... or the Assembly does not give this Law, the bill does not remove, but opens a whole series of other concerns, and the central government, the central state office, which, by the letter of the existing law, should oversee the legality of the conduct of the unit of local self-government as if it escapes from one part of responsibility, and transfers it either to a referendum or to a representative body itself, and leaves itself the possibility of being discreetly acting when it is required by its assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the current action and the evaluation of the central office's actions, rather than any such arbitrary situations being contained, I say a whole series of new possibilities is opening up. So, depending on whether we're comfortable with a certain political constitution on the ground or not. Here are some concrete remarks on certain articles. Article 35a, i.e. which speaks in Article 4 concerning the introduction of a new provision of Article 35a, which states clearly how the Head of the Local Self-Government Unit is obliged to answer the asked questions of the Council. We're witnesses, please nice to have the head of the body mayor ask for a very specific matter, for selling some terrain, and he... an attack councilor or councilwoman, and that's considered an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a lonely case. That's what we're witnessing from the central government to the least local self-government unit. The councillor, the councilwoman, has the right to receive a concrete answer, which is why in law and tax on this particular fact should state, not any answer, but an answer to the question surrounding the question. It is something that should be understood, but since abuses are common and are no longer excess, they are generally becoming such a rule, especially when they are avoided very unpleasant, but very specific and for citizens important issues then it is also necessary to intervene in such a way legally. When it comes to conditions where the municipal chief, the mayor, or the other members of the local self-government units, are terminated by law, the law is then cited as the day of the check-out of residence from the unit area. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we still don't admit that residence is something that's real. We have a situation today that man, it's something normal and in communication with citizens, listen I can't vote there I'm not registered there, here I'm registered. So, it's not taken as some kind of socially dangerous behavior or harmful behavior, or for behavioural behavior worthy of social condemnation, the kind of behavior where it's manipulated by residence, and we know that it's not just political rights, but very, very material rights, and instead of putting an end to it and through other laws other than the basic laws that we've tried to edit, here in some way we're blessing this situation, or that kind of fact we're still legalizing. Well, we're witnessing when elections are announced, local elections to pack suitcases and go there either as a passive participant of the election or as an active one. Well, that's where it's supposed to end. Well, he can't be the mayor and mayor of someone who doesn't live in that place, but travels. It can't be, and there is, and we all know that because the law makes it possible, but then the question is, how did he vote in the first place, and how did he come here, did he get into that place illegally? He who is the head of the body of the unit of local self-government must live with the people day and night and share fate. In such a way, it is essential, in such a way it shows that it cares about the place, not the position, politically first of all. What I also find very important is that it cannot be legally determined that 1% of the budget in relation to the budget of that unit of local self-government is considered negligible damage. All right, some exaggerating amount can still be tolerated, but the amounts that pass, i.e. up to 500 thousand kuna, cannot be considered a small damage especially for a small unit of local self-government, but also for large ones. That's a big amount. That's the big money that citizens single out. Also why here to save illegality. Here, in the case of illegality and conduct, it should be without mercy. I think it's here to tolerate a situation of lawlessness for six months, so it's just to make it possible for a referendum where something that has nothing to do with respect for the principle of legality. Well, it doesn't matter what the election was. If the city council or the head of that body behaves unlawfully, that is to say, cultivate lawlessness from the day it stopped, it should be sanctioned immediately. Let all of them, and let all of them, and let all of them, and let them take away from him conjecture, or responsibility. In Article 9, it is intended to figure towards national minorities, so it is also possible for national minorities to immediately become deputy mayors, mayors, or mayors in units of local and regional self-government in which they are minorities. The law now provides for this, and we have an existing situation in the city of Zadar where since the last local elections, the central government does not want to recognise the 12th Councilman because this would be equivalent to the HDZ results achieved precisely because, by this key, by national minorities, by law and by the Constitution, and not by mandates, they should be recognised. And something else that's very important. We must build a ban on alienation of land owned by units of local self-government without the approval of the city council, that must be it. There can't be one certain amount. Some units have it, some don't have statutes. Why? Because we have to preserve our most valuable good, and to note that it makes it difficult for the government to interfere with the headship, the truth is that it interferes with both the headship and the government, but it's good and it's bad for that thing, but it's good for democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87743	Thank you. And please, colleagues of Anticevic, take care of your voice. ... Right next to the ear specialist, throat, nose. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87744	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the office. I also said in the club that I think that today would be much more necessary and desirable and more interesting for citizens, especially citizens in local self-government, to discuss the regional division of the Republic of Croatia, which is in force and which has a significant impact on the lives of citizens and their municipalities, cities and regions, rather than on something that will certainly be changed by 2009. Unfortunately, today, when the basis of a thematic session held on Monday on the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government was a proposal to even discuss this topic in this House, the ruling majority rejected it. This is really interesting that you do not want to discuss at all a problem that causes such a great public interest or allow discussion in the Croatian Parliament. So where should this be discussed is such a matter and a problem that directly concerns the lives of every citizen and local and regional self-government if not in Parliament. Is that what we're gonna discuss on the street? And we're not gonna let that debate go where it's supposed to be. And secondly, are we really going to let the conclusion of this House not be carried out, and he is from 2003, and that this House is not in any way informed but that otherwise something is made and then not even allowed to discuss it again. But it's obviously irrelevant to the government because it doesn't want important and essential things to be discussed, but here we'll discuss what spring 2009 will be like because it's very interesting for the citizens at this point where we won't discuss the whole content of the problem but we'll just discuss how we can resolve the mayor. It's very important you know. It doesn't matter what he does, how he works, how a representative body will be elected, what powers he will have, what powers local self-government units will have. All that matters to us is how we choose the mayor and how we replace him. What's more, it's much more important for us to replace him because all the mayors must be removed. We have a huge mistrust in our mayors, mayors and mayors no matter what parties they come from, always the opposition thinks you should be replaced and they're always under some huge suspicion. And the whole text of the law actually tells the de facto about it, about this suspicion of the directly elected mayors where I really am here, thinking about it this way, I'm asking a question, which is what this law wanted to achieve in the first place. Do we have any idea whether we have a goal, whether we want a stable, efficient local self-government in which there will be clearly defined relations between the directly elected leaders and the representative body, or whether we want an unstable and therefore inefficient local self-government, a local self-government full of conflict, a local self-government in which, will not know whose responsibilities are, in which jurisdiction will be intertwined, in which the error of the other will be sought and the attempt to manipulate one another. I do what I read, it turns out to be different. Because we wanted a really effective local self-government, then we had to lay the groundwork, and the basis is that we know who, what and what means they will be able to do in 2009 in this local self-government and we could then tell the citizens you can expect it from local self-government, not to tell the citizens now you will be able to choose it directly and you will be able to change it like this. What's he gonna do? Well, who cares? Who cares? For example, whether we can talk about the availability of movables and real estate in these ratios today, if we're going to decentralize the state to increase revenues, fiscal revenues or the share of fiscal revenues from the current 8 to 25% that it has local self-government. So will we lead ourselves to, for example, the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, the City Council of Rijeka, Split, Osijek, having a permanent session? So if we get 25% of our income, fiscal incomes in local self-government, then the budget, for example, of the city of Rijeka, is going to be somewhere at a billion-and-a-half kuna. To make a billion-and-a-half kuna decisions to manage real estate and movables, the city council will have to meet. You can't buy furniture for school so you don't meet the city council and the city council doesn't make a special decision that you can do it. Because furniture, the equipment for a school is over a million kuna. But if the city council has passed the budget, if the budget says it will be done, if the Public Procurement Act says you have to have a big procurement plan, if you carry out a large purchase in accordance with the law, why does the city council have to approve it again? For what? Then let's not make budgets at all. Then let's have the money and have the meetings of the city council where it's going to meet and say okay, you can do this, you can't do this. Then we don't need a supply plan, we don't need any other stuff. But here is the question of how, for example, the city's assembly, or how will the directly elected mayor of a larger city with a budget of 500, 600 million or a billion kuna be able to function? That's almost impossible under this bill. The question is, how can he function if we give him all those powers we intend to transfer to local self-government? Or maybe it's in this law to read that there's nothing out of decentralisation. Maybe we'll get to the point where there's no decentralisation. Or we'll have mayors and chiefs of ficus who will really be able to decide then only to move the ficus around his office. We just don't know what we want. If we don't know what we want, then they'll take us there every time. And if we know what we want, then there's only one way we can get there. It is the right way to achieve this and to pass the not-for-all Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, but also the whole package of laws. We've been waiting four years for the Law on the Communal Economy. He was promised here in the government's 2004 work plan. There's still no draft of any text. It's a fundamental law. Law on the financing of local self-government units. We had a fight last year. The government shut up. Now that he's on his way back to tax returns, let's see who wins, who loses. We suddenly, in the second month we waved that local self-government was going to get a hell of a lot of money. Now that they're on their way back to tax returns, we're keeping something quiet about it. But let's see how much in 2009, what will be the distribution of taxes within the Republic of Croatia between municipalities, cities and central states? Because really are we just talking or are we really thinking 25% of the fiscal income to give to local self-government? Or it's just a story. This is where we talk about how we can replace the mayor. And what can the mayor do to someone who obstructs him in the work of the city council? Nothing. He can't even invite him. He can't even invite him to discuss some issues on the city council. The mayor remains the only option to obstruct the city council's work so the city council can be disbanded. And now imagine. He obstructs the work of the city council and is not punished, but has been punished by the city council by disbanding and new elections. He can manipulate as well. As I was talking about that a referendum can be manipulated in a way that is caused by the crisis or that is discussed, so the mayor does not propose a budget, we have doubled here who is in charge of proposing it, but 'let's say that it is in the mayor's jurisdiction to propose it, but if he does not propose a budget and the city council does not bring a budget, who suffers the consequences? Not the mayor, the city council. City Council. These are key things that there's not even a letter in this law. And I really think this is just throwing dust into the eyes of the citizens. This is a law that cannot be implemented. This law will lead to confusion in the existing local self-government. So let's withdraw this law, let's do this little time we're dealing with key things. And then we have a year or a year and a half to bring a whole package of the Law of Local Self-Government. And we will do so in the next assembly of Parliaments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87745	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87746	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I will correct one in a series of incorrect allegations Mršić made, which is that this bill deals strictly only with how to replace mayors and mayors of municipalities. No, I don't. That's absolutely not true because he doesn't do it at all in his content. He's dealing with what's strictly bothering you, which is that you won't be able to be mayor and parliamentary representative anymore. He deals with the fact that you will no longer be able to be mayor and parliamentary representative but you will have to work either in your town or in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87747	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87748	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the State Office, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I think, no matter what it is, colleagues have said about this a long time ago, and obviously this proposal is full of holes, gaps and so on, but I think we should welcome the tension and I don't think there's anyone here who won't support it, that both the mayors and the mayors and the mayors are directly elected. Since I am from Split, I am particularly inspired by the situation in Split where we currently have a mayor against whom 82% of those who went to the elections voted. This does not mean that he did not legally become mayor because it was made possible by existing laws and various machinations after the elections. But for me, he's not the legitimate mayor. I don't even blame him that much. I blame, say, two people on the list of joints led by the SDP, from HSU who received inspiration the morning the city council was formed and in a strange way even though at 10 less 15 signed for our candidate, in 10 voted for the HDZ candidate to be mayor. They ran there with a few sacks of votes that didn't vote for HDZ, but against HDZ. I say this law should make it impossible or some similar even better law to solve the mayor's issue in this way. The law should give rise to something else, which is that the mayor is not responding to the city council, but to the citizens who voted for him. Then it wouldn't have happened if some who I know had read at night an old socrealist hit that was called "How the steel was molded" that steel on the Split waterfront and didn't answer for it. Today, information means that this project appears to have been realized beyond what the project predicted. So, this gnawed dinosaur iron skeleton on the Split coast is obviously made because someone thinks they don't have to answer to the citizens, so this morning the mayor says he won't answer the citizens and a member of the headship that he doesn't want to do the same. That kind of irresponsibility I think this law should be prevented, i.e. who is mayor must answer to the citizens and not to the councilmen who have been bought, not to their parties, not to anyone, but to the citizens. That's why the intensity is good and I basically welcome her even though she didn't come from HDZ, she came from among other parties. I'm glad that HDZ accepts, so let's fix the law, let's respect what's been proposed here. You see, it's because of this kind of irresponsibility that happens in my town that what's going on in Split. Today it was also about Makarska. No matter how we interpret the fact is in the election you get four councillors, it's got HDZ, there are ten of them this morning. Look at the wonders, and there was no choice. What's going on in this country? What's going on in this country that elections aren't necessary at all? Because gentlemen make arrangements after the election. The most important election is after the election. If this law or some similar law or an even better law corrects it and it's going to be a big deal because this is nakarad. My friends, I think you're all against the radical way of choosing city councils, municipal councils, county councils. And that is why I welcome the initiative, with all the remarks that have been made whether this is indeed the introduction of the market in Croatia, understood in the most impossible way. It's where politics is not needed, left-left councilmen are bought, and it's not where it's supposed to be in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87749	Don't wave around your colleague Anticevic like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87750	Don't be afraid, I'm looking out for her. We've been trained. Mr. Palaric, he's not here right now, he'd like to be here right now for the sake of this Makarska. It is due to the situation in Makarska which is now such that the HDZ which has suddenly, suddenly and in a strange way strengthened by crossing some councilors. Here's the last one from HSU again. Looks like these are the oldest ones. So, on May 8th, Mr. Palaric sent a telegram to the mayor telling him to state the reasons why he did not call the city council. And I guess the mayor was just going to answer when he came from the quick state office to decide that the state office called a session, Mr. Palaric called, 9.8th asks you, 9th calls without waiting for an answer. So who's kidding? I mean, don't waste your cable money on high-speed citizens who don't serve anything anyway. Here's Zivko, he's gonna fix me. Is it about speed or essence? There are very different, very different behaviours of the central state office around similar situations. Somewhere they call meetings, somewhere they don't summon, about three months they wait, somewhere they don't wait, somewhere they trust. And that's what I don't think. That's what's wrong. In this case it seems to me that the activities have been taken to change the situation and I'm going to tell you it's not smart for someone who does because the people are less stupid than some people think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87751	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87752	Dear Mr. President, a colleague has incorrectly stated that the Split Riviera was just made in accordance with the project and the additional interpretation has just been given by one of the authors in the morning in Dnevnik. Of course, even Makarska is not true because it did not call the city council president within the legal time limit, and the mayor did not call for a legal session, the secretary of the Central State Office did, and that is precisely why this proposed law should be adopted as soon as possible, which is the best of all possible regulations that we have recently adopted regarding local and regional self-government. And it's a skill just when you have a minority to win power and get a majority as in the city of Makarska.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87753	The second amendment is the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87754	Mr. President, it is not true that the mayor is not responding to the citizens. It's a completely incorrect claim. Finally, it responds to the elections, just as the mayor of Zagreb said when citizens asked questions and asked them to leave them alone in the meantime and in the next elections he will answer for it. Second inaccuracy. It is incorrect to spend citizens' money on high speeds, but it is true that you spend great money daily on referendum issues in different face-to-faces of different television houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87755	Third correction, respected representative Zivko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87756	Your Honor, Mr. President, I must correct what my colleague Jurjevic says is that actually the state administration here does not behave in accordance with the law and violates the law. However, the state administration, the state administration's office fully respects the law because the other one cannot and cannot, but what the president of the city council and the mayor is doing, or what the SDP and the HNS are doing in Makarska, can't be worse than breaking the law because they don't want to call the council, obstruct, now they say they're going to call the police, they're going to interrupt the session. I think it's some kind of yoghurt revolution attempt. More democratically, I watched these days in the Belgrade congregation than they did downstairs. If they don't have most of them, and HDZ has lost a few places because it's overruled, you've lost most of it, and you can't act any further. And it should be respected and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87757	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87758	Well, my colleague Jurević here, as some kind of exclusivity, you're telling the mayor of the City of Split that he won't answer and that he won't share with the citizens. And here you can see in a small place, I will only give this example... /The speech has been excluded/... which with the land that was sold most by the sea of EUR 2, 3 under the company of a great public-private partnership contract where economic doctors have claimed that it is a hidden clean purchase for 2, 3 EUR and not any public-private partnership. And they ask the councilmen that is independent. They don't get answers. They also complained to an independent central state body. For a year, it passed that it was not a respected statute because it required consent for such sale or for sale for indemnity. But they're silent. And you're still saying they're quick to react. They react quickly in Makarska because it doesn't fit the authorities. But in Posedar's answer, there's no need to react. But then when you put that minute together where it's urgent and spotless, you get one of these solid averages that everybody should be happy about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87759	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. And respected representative Zdenko Antešić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87761	As for our mayor this morning, in the most tiring daily newspaper in Dalmatia, one article on the Split Riviera was published on two pages, the behaviour of the city's administration where one prominent member of the commission approved the project, and the university professor of sociologists of unquestionable reputation and moral and any other dignitary stated that this was not what they approved. If these structures weren't... A dinosaur skeleton of iron did not exist but some other light and so on can be read there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the mayor was asked to plead, he said he wouldn't. That's what this is about. Who has the right not to account for what they do with their money? No one. And I'm just saying if this law leads to the fact that I can't behave so willingly anywhere and anyone from any party will already be a lot. And I'm here for us all to agree and sign together, I don't know how you want a declaration that no party will accept any defector that will change the situation that occurred in the elections at any level. Municipal, city, county or parliament. And that the party from which he went would disown him. And that it should be impaled to a pillar of shame in Croatia. ... And that every citizen has the right, figuratively to resort to a normal thing, that every citizen has the right to look at him with contempt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I said he'd wear scissors on his head. They're your bags, and Mr. Jerkov says we'll wear it when we get to the waterfront. Well, of course they wouldn't see the miracle. But he meant something else. That's what this is about. If we don't all contribute to that, they'll still... I don't know what to call them, this slave who has a human face walking around here, there, since, then, buying like potatoes. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, it will endanger the freedom of competition. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87762	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurevic, when you mentioned in your speech our great State Office for, I remembered an event concerning my local environment from which I came and it is the island of Rab. You know for a fact that by the decision of this Parliament we founded in July last year a new municipality of Lopar, which separated it from the composition of the city of Rab. And after that, representatives of the parties on the rest of the island, representing 80% of the electoral bodies, sent this government and the Central State Office a request to call extraordinary elections on the island of Rab because the rest of the government does not represent the legitimate will of its citizens. And according to the quick office or the quick principle to this day means from July of last year to the day of today no response from the Government, or from this great office, has come. Well, then by mentioning some of the facts that I think have much less weight, I can see that here's what I don't know, I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87763	It's just the girls, and the office. Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87764	Well, I think that politicians are the most responsible to protect the dignity of politics in Croatia and our profession. We're at the lowest branches in Croatia anyway. The average citizen thinks that no matter who we are or who we are, we're the personification of everything that's wrong. Let's do our best to change that, and so will the Central State Office. If so, he will only be credible if he treats everyone in the same way. That's the only way. If there are different criteria he is not credible. It's the same with the judiciary. It's the same with anything in this country because, in one case, this is what we decide, in another. Depends on whether it's Mate or Ivan? Is it ours or theirs? Is he a relative, is he a party friend or is he an enemy and that's why people spit on us and often rightly so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87765	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87766	Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Department, here's just a few more words we've heard today. Why do I get the feeling that by attacking this law, we're getting more and more back to the old law. We even heard, we even heard on several occasions that this existing law made more sense, that there was more logic, but we were all declarative we were all for the new law knowing in advance what would be the main problem. And the problem is, in fact, the relationship between the mayor and the city council and the municipal council. The most normal thing that this problem will be expressed in very many ways, but again the city or municipal council provides a framework in which the mayor or mayor works. And that will be in most cases I am almost certain of the mayor or the chief of one party and most of the council from another party be assured because our people are just like that. They better control each other and then they'll be on one side, the other on the other side, and there'll be a lot of problems. The fact is that here is the mayor of Split we saw chosen under the old law, unfortunately I would wish for such a mayor but I don't have a waterfront and then we solve problems ourselves. A colleague here named Sabati mentioned the same thing. He says it's not the party that's been chosen until now. It's the man. It may be here and there, but since most of the city's or municipality's and the county's now authorities of the coalition always come up with someone who's clearly from blackmailing smaller parties whom most citizens certainly didn't choose, I would not agree with that claim either. A few words about volunteering. In fact, I have submitted this amendment myself, that is, on professionalism. I mean, I think most people who haven't worked in cities or municipalities might not know about that ratio. But we have really big municipalities with 12, 13, 15 000 inhabitants and there are small towns with 1500, Komiža say 2000 Novaljas and similar residents and I think one is allowed to be either volunteers or professionals, and the mayor must be a professional anyway, no matter how small the city may be. Well, or perhaps the smartest thing would be if everyone had to be professionals or then even one and the other so that, say, up to some 3,000 residents could be volunteers regardless of whether he's in town or in the municipality. And I think that this law, in relation to our demands, has been maximumly good, maximumly fulfilled, and there will be problems, there will be individual problems that there will be now and they will be with any law you can be sure of. Because I'm finally in charge again, but that main judge is still our population who will go to the polls after four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87767	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87768	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government who propose this law. Well, frankly, it seems to me that after listening to this debate all morning in the Croatian Parliament and the arguments that the proposer gave for this law so that we can say that the final proposal for this law is actually an alibi for the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Instead of resolving the reform of the state administration and local self-government as a whole, we received a proposal on the benches, a final bill on amendments and additions which, according to the claims of people who are in practice cannot be implemented, and if so, I really wonder if the Government deliberately sent such an inconclusive law in the debate to the Croatian Parliament. This should immediately be added to the question of what is the problem, which is problematic in the local self-government system and what should be changed about the state administration and the relationship of local administration with the state administration. Is democracy in Croatia tired? If the most ordinary handbook of the democratic system says democracy is not an efficient system but is the best system, then I do not see any reason in the bill of this law that, that Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, therefore the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia can change the 77 hands of this Parliament, 77 hands, and the Mayor of the City of Split needs 33,000 signatures of Split more than he has won in the elections. Is that the system we're building? If we look at the Constitution, so it's not an important article that is now, I think it's 132 that says local self-government has the right, citizens have the right to local self-government and that local self-government has its interests realised through a representative body. And now, compared to what the Constitution says, we favour executive power. So we favor one man who will yet be elected directly, but it is executive power. We reduce the influence of citizens through their representatives in city, county and municipal councils. If we look at what's needed for the mayor's shift, it's actually absurd. It will often require more signatures to launch the shift procedure than to get the mayor, mayor or mayor's office. And look at the absurd! The legislator proposes as if it were mobbing, that if the motion for a referendum fails, if it fails, the Council or the Assembly will then, as a consequence, suffer the punishment of the representative body and must be dissolved. And this is his job to control and verify whether the executive authority is operating in accordance with the law and in accordance with policy. If we look at things like this, and I think we should look at it and add that the promoter has provided one man directly chosen to have up to a million kunas and real estates and movables, then I think now I'm pulling back what I said was an alibi then it might be the reason why this law is going. So let's dissipate, dissipate the representative body. Let's give an individual a chance to dispose of real estate and movables up to a million kunas, so what happens? Because his shift is almost impossible. The only good word in the bill is that when he dies he shouldn't write because it's understood in itself that he can't be someone who's even mayor in a position of death. So, I think that, all those who have advocated building a system and that we are much more interesting if we want to build a system, the democratic system to encourage the institutions of the system, not to take a step back in the name of efficiency. Well, I don't mind going to a system-wide change and having direct elections for both MPs and representatives of local self-government and that this relationship regulates the individual responsibilities of each of us. So each of us can account in front of our constituents. This kind of hiding will not allow citizens to go any faster, and most importantly it will not allow citizens to believe in power anymore, because such a system that is undefined will not reduce the perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia that remains very high. Because giving someone the right to sell our assets for a million kuna every day is not a matter of trust but of allowing them to gain their position in society and power beyond the representative body. Another provision should be specifically noted. As if the legislator doesn't understand what it is, what the bodies of local or state administrations are. So in Article 48, it now leaves the mayor or the mayor or mayor or mayor to manage the authorities of local self-government units, as if they are no longer independent bodies and must work in accordance with the law and with decisions taken by the representative body of those units. They become his workers. They become his workers, and the Constitution says about the independent decision-making of both local and state administrations regarding the law, decisions, etc. And if he's preparing materials, then he's addicted to politics. I think it's fair to ask the government to withdraw this law and ask that the entire system and relations between state and local administrations take a look at it, even if in the last year it suggests that we bring something that might have an impact on the position of citizens in front of state and local administration and their security that they will protect their rights regardless of who is in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87769	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. The first in line is a respected representative of Pearl Perman. We're continuing the session. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87771	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. A lot of things have been said about this subject, so I'm going to try to make my debate as brief as possible. It is a significant provision which disbands the representative body in the event of a referendum on the trust of the unit leader of the local self-government, which, according to the results of the referendum, remains in office, or is not resolved. However, I think that the provision for a referendum decision to be taken by the majority of the members of the representative body should be amended in a way that is made by a two-thirds majority. This would avoid or reduce to a minimum the irresponsibly irresponsible or insufficiently reasoned decisions of the representative body on the calling of a referendum, establish their responsibility and sanction the consequences of the injustice of the proceedings, which is particularly important when it comes to the different political options of the majority in the representative body and the directly elected local leader. I did not find any information on the mandatory deadlines for the discussion and implementation of the extraordinary elections in the event of the appointment of the Government's commissioners either at the position of the local head or in the role of the representative body. Since such a provision exists in the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of local units and says that the elections must be held within 60 days of the day of the election opening, the same or similar should stand in this law, in particular because it is a directly elected leader that the Commissioner does not have a united role as head and representative body, but these two functions are separated and the Commissioner must cooperate with a party which is not resolved. In order to avoid the adverse consequences of their possible poor cooperation or to minimise them, it is very important and important to define deadlines for extraordinary elections, and thus to define the time period in which the Commissioner, in which the term of office will be carried out by the Commissioner, will be defined. That is why I have submitted an amendment laying down deadlines for early snap elections, which is why the possibility of manipulation really comes down to a minimum. Obviously, such a solution to the amendments and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government would be a step towards resolving the chronic problem of defection and purchasing the mandate of members of local representative bodies that have been periodically repeated since the last local elections in various parts of Croatia and which in an unacceptable way changes the voter's will through election results. This is particularly important in the areas where the power and opposition ratio in the representative body differs by one to three members, because, according to such a solution, the number of council members would not be able to directly decide on the head of the executive authority as is the case now. In these two years, we have had examples of these in a whole series of local units, such as Karlovac, Sisak, Velika Gorica, Drenovci, Požeko-slavonska and Dubrova-Neretva County and not to list any further. Here is the latest example of the crisis of the government that takes place in the municipality of Kostrena in the Primorje-Gorski County where the transition of a council member from the coalition to the side of the opposition created a critical mass for the coup, the president of the municipal council was removed and with the constant threat of the replacement of the commissioners created a crisis in the functioning of the executive government. I have yet to submit four amendments which specify more precisely the content of the text of the law, but does not change the essence, so I hope that the Proposer will accept them. Although I agree with those who, during the debate, stressed the need to pass a completely new law that would respect and remove the shortcomings highlighted during the debate, I think that this proposal would be quite corrected by the adoption of the proposed amendments, so my vote will actually depend on a decision to accept or not accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87772	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this is a topic that I would almost say since 93, when local self-government was introduced in Croatia, when it started with a project of local self-government, there is practically a controversy about what is the best way for citizens to exercise their rights, that is, what is the best way of looking at political parties' aspects, how they see the development of a local self-government system, which concept should be the one that suits citizens most, but of course the political parties still play a crucial role in designing a model that would be most acceptable in order for life in our cities, municipalities and counties to take place in a quality way. I must admit that in all the debates I participated in most of the debates in this topic, it was quite reserved that the exclusiveness of the direct... mayor, mayor, mayor himself will solve certain problems which he has in all areas of society, so of course in the local self-government since the transition of councilors, from despotism, from all those problems which naturally have a negative impact on the public's position on public authority. I think that without enough analysis or questioning, first of all, we kind of buried the existing system too quickly. I'm not saying he's ideal, as I'm not saying this one is extremely good or extremely bad. I'm just saying that the weather experience of 93 years here, of course, gives the right to talk about quality improvements at all levels. But, of course, in that sense, one practice stemming from that 93th system here should play a dominant role in the assessment of the situation. I can accept that in some ways most of our citizens think that it would be a direct choice for all of these municipal, urban and county quality leaders, more credible, more correct and anything, but I think it is just one superficial analysis of the situation if it is to objectively consider the overall problem of local self-government. I am afraid that by leaving one system and entering another system, and the subject of the Final Proposal of this Law is precisely speaking in this sense we have still not sufficiently clarified those negativitys that were in practice and are happening, and I am not sure that we are fully convinced that this way we will fully amortise them or overcome them. I am not convinced that at least when it comes to the heads of municipalities, cities and counties when they are elected in the direct elections that the credibility required of them or the communicability required of them or the closer bond between them and the citizens will be somewhat different than it is today. Croatia has also decided in its constitution on parliamentary democracy. So-called The opposite variant of particular democracy, of course, finds its place in contemporary societies, as well as in Croatian society. I think that the changes that should take place in the legislative framework when it comes to elections, ways of acting as authorities, ways of asking these authorities, reducing post-election trade, that these are all issues that this law cannot solve in nature, but I am not convinced that any law will solve a very simple issue so what if the mayor is elected in direct elections, does that mean that tomorrow he will not change his political position? Who says they won't? So if we pick him directly, does that mean he's not moving from the left tomorrow to the right or the one in the middle? It doesn't. Which would make the argument convincing in the fact that he was elected directly without being selected on the list through most of this municipal, city or county council. It's very hard to find arguments that it's okay, and this isn't right. It is therefore that each country must build its own space for action that corresponds to citizens, public authorities and politics, and there is nothing that can be borrowed and set up as a new body and say that is something that will satisfy everyone. It is the practice that must fully confirm credibility, which must confirm the correctness, but which also indicates the defects that arise through the behaviour and operation of the election cycles. Therefore, I think that regardless of the urgency that these relations are intended to be regulated, for the sake of all those arguments and those who often say things too strongly, in a sense if we don't pass today a law that will enable the direct election of leaders then we will lag behind in development, then our local self-government or our democracy will experience a serious failure, or our citizens will be greatly dissatisfied. I think that the satisfaction and dissatisfaction of citizens does not stem from the model of electoral legislation, but from content, from the very character of what their satisfaction is in relation to traffic with public authorities. Where relationships are arranged in municipalities and cities, where there is a good communication between citizens and public authorities, where things in nature are either in the communal area or in some other part of the city, it can't be said that the system is not good and effective because it would be ridiculous and inadmissible. So we're usually inclined to generalize everything and then even when we pull something out that's negative then everything is negative and on the other hand when we pull something that's positive then everything is positive. You can't do this, in this particular matter you can't generalize, but it's even worse to draw conclusions. Why too fast? Because I'm not, I'm speaking for myself, and I'm not entirely convinced that when one general hysteria has come up, it's going to be a direct decision to get rid of everything together and that we're all going to be in another country that's going to function perfectly. I'm just not sure that's it. I think we have too little serious analysis, too little arguments, but at this point, we still have enough time to do this thing really the way it's supposed to be arranged. I also absolutely personally hold that the model that equated to 50:50 ratio of direct dialing and proportional, i.e. the lists was one model that along with some work, along with some other institutions could come and could show and could arrange some relationships for which we are now trying to edit this Law. So I don't have and I'm not entirely convinced that I would vote out of this final bill, not because I think he's bad, because I don't think he's bad right now either. They're bad relationships in certain environments, they're bad people who do what they shouldn't do, but these bad people and those bad relationships can't prescribe the law. I'm not convinced that it can be prescribed by legal measures, that we will make a good man a bad one, not a bad one. That hasn't proved possible so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87774	Okay. There. Thank you very much. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87775	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the council. So let me say a few words more practically than the law says much whether it's good or not, but with practice to try to warn you of some situations and things. Namely, I am not sure on behalf of the promoter that we are giving greater, more real and some concrete, concrete rights to the new, since this is the way for elected mayors, mayors and mayors. I warn you that as acting officers, we are bound not only by this, like this, similar and all other laws in the course of our duties. I think it's illusory to restrict the mayor, the mayor, the mayor in general in order to make the means available because the law that binds, which binds your hands, has just said that. Namely, the Law on Public Procurement of Me, the Mayor of Zagreb, gives the same rights to up to 20 thousand kunas directly so that they can, I have no further rights. My hands are tied like this fine, and I answer for everything in a way and according to the law as further regulated. There's a so-called. a small purchase or a public tender for further. And that's where my rights and obligations end. I'm not going to have any more exclusive rights and I'm not going to be given any more of that right by the power of this law. That's why I'm saying that if we really think that a directly elected chief, mayor or mayor gets this bill of law some greater powers and rights, it's illusions. Because it is adequately subject to the legal provisions that are now in force under the law in a different way. I am also trying to look at from my perspective the fact that we think that right at the time of the election, it means that when the mayor is running for office, he will not be run by some political option, that there will not be an interest group behind him, that there will be no lobbying of a number of citizens organised in one way or another. And that he would be some freak who would be chosen and he would represent himself and defend all those inhabitants of God who are on that territory. So let's just take a look at our situation and stand on the ground and say, in a small environment where you have a thousand, a thousand 200 voters, voters are known to need to be in the first round, let's say, if there's 40, 50%, 200, 250 voters, the second round when the election is re-elected, when they're out of the way, 100, 150 voters pick a new mayor. I know that by experience. And that's our fact and we're talking about it, which is why we discuss it the other way. Now the question is, as soon as he has it, who does he answer, how is he chosen? Well, he was chosen by an even smaller number of votes than we are now, until... Sets up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we were still supposed to get some absolute majority or the absolute majority had to choose us and set us up except for some situations, and then we respond to that same... The representative's body for each of its actions, what's already been said is, 'who's asking the question, that's how we behave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not sure from experience that we give powers and rights by abolishing the headship, and yet by obtaining the views of the representative body, the availability and the way in which it all comes together. I think that model may be well imagined in some fiction, but the real situation is so confusing, so unarranged that we or someone else, we're on the line all the time with the office, we're being interpreted, we're being directed and so on. That's why I'm appealing again. However, these items that are now being abolished by the Headship, by giving authority to the mayor, the mayor, should be decided, said until the end in the way that all these things will be together. So no matter how confusing it may be, by reading the law now, that mayor has to propose a number, we have to confirm it, it has to be done, there's no other. However, obstruction of work or mayors who, from other options, could possibly come or representative bodies that might happen in the elections, would actually fail. It has already been said either not by proposing or not by voting either one or the other. There's got to be some model of how this situation skips because it's just going to be a blockade, a new block of the devil. Because forgive one of the mayors who pushes and the elected mayor doesn't have to have a political or other option sitting in the representative body. And now those two options if they're not in some kind of... Then there's a clear new election, new everything together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now a few more words for that so-called. A shift. I don't think it's gonna be a rule, that kind of change, but we shouldn't make one mistake. If he suggests, I think there's some kind of goodwill there, 33% of the citizens, voters, the motion for a shift, and then the sea has to replace one, say 15, 16% who go to the polls. Let's even it out, at least that minimum that suggests that this minimum has to be for his shift. And it has already been said on behalf of the HSS that 2/3 of the majority in the Council, it should be the one who would propose a shift on behalf of the citizens or accept the initiative. Because half the majority is questionable, and it could abuse its position in the way it happens. And not to delay, I'm asking the promoter to be that purgatory is this bill with a delay of new or other, and to make it clear, that he should not be able to take effect on the election day, but I think he's teaching us, and we've had, for the last election, at least three months before the Statutes agree to the units of local self-government, because when we go to the polls, the way we choose and establish should already be clear and know, and not only then prepare the statutes and have those three months so-called. A cold drive that only. It is easy in those municipalities where the single management department is conceived, but I remind you that out of the five hundred and some units of local self-government there are three hundred orphans, I call them, the poor who barely patch up the end, where there is no legal service, where there is no accounting, where there is no help and where many skills and knowledge should be made by all others to do so. So the bill now, where I propose, let it take effect for new elections but so long before all the acts of preparation are brought forward and there is no dilemma. And perhaps most importantly, Secretary of State would be good if all other acts were laid down and not just that law. You know how much trouble we have with the officers, how much trouble we have with all the other acts, and it would be good if that set of laws were followed by this law by making it easier for us to do the work we're doing and all because of the citizens of our voters who expect us to make clear messages and clear indications how to do it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87776	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87777	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, and this is one of the laws that follows the "why would it be simple when it can be impregnable", because all of what we've been talking about today is that most of us in the opposition agree that all of this is actually inconclusive. At first, I thought you did it to keep that law from being passed at all, so you counted on it to be passed with 77 hands. Since most of the coalition partners have said that they won't support it, probably with you not gathering 77 hands anyway, you've shown good will, you washed your hands like Pontius Pilate, so here's something we're trying to do but we don't have 77 hands here and we can't bring it. However, I see now from some discussions that some even a little retreat so they are not too sure that the mayors, mayors and mayors should be elected directly so that I am not sure that this plan with 77 hands can pass. However, I am one of those who will certainly vote against this, and I said why. Because most things in practice will be inconclusive. I'm just going to list the questions that are controversial to me and most of them have touched everyone in their discussions, and that's the question of who is proposing a budget, who, who, who adopts it, doesn't say a word, and I don't think there's any way to do that. Then, leaving whether the deputy and the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and the deputy go in the package and when, in which cases and in cases where one is convicted, is not condemned vaguely and inexecutably. Then the referendum decision itself, if called a referendum, is called a plea and should be implemented under the referendum law, the question of how to replace the Commissioner, in which way it is replaced by citizens, in which way it is replaced by the representative body. We underestimate the citizens, give authority to the representative's body, probably to set up those who fit us and replace the chief who's from the other... every six months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third and most important thing, in the transitional and final provisions there is no provision for a constitutional session. It's impossible what Collar suggests to bring it in early. What if, during that period, some new elections are being called somewhere in some of the municipalities that would apply, which statutes, how. It's inexecutable, but that's why it should all be written here in law. And I'm going back to the conclusion. You came here with this proposal simply to wash yourself in front of the citizens but you have no intention of doing this. The proof of this is also the date when the law begins to apply, meaning from the next election. Fortunately, you won't be in power anymore, so we'll do it. ... And if I am or not, it will determine the citizens and you won't, and the citizens will also determine who will be acting here in the next term, but I'm sure it won't be you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I'll be at the vote. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, the Najscans will probably tell their opinion in the election. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for this when it comes into effect, I hope so, and I'm sure you won't bring this, so we'll bring it in the next term anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87778	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87779	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here's a few sentences about this law. Well, at first I would say that the intensity at the beginning said I would be brought to this Parliament by consensus that we should respect the will of the voters, that we must pass one law that will in any case avoid all that has happened in many of our municipalities, many of our cities, and also our counties. I think that this intensity has been achieved in the part of the direct election proposal and that in that part I don't think there are certain objections to this law. It certainly contributes to the fulfillment of this basic part of respect for the voter's will because by choosing this way we will get a kind of leading man who will be chosen by the voter's will, get his post, and I believe that our function will behave. However, what is a little confusing to me may not be just the indetermination of this law if we look at it in the way it is, but rather, one important part of every electoral legislation as to whether it is possible to bring such important changes into place in such a way as to go through such changes throughout Croatia, or perhaps it would be better if we had I had said a few examples so that we could see how this thing works on, in particular in practice. I don't think that's new. I think the secretary of state is known that in some Western European countries there are different systems across different regions. So we could at least see for a while what's going to happen here? When many here who have discussed have highlighted some of the problems that could lead to the almost blockade of the system. What's the fact that, given our voters, they're always in a certain way devoting themselves. They will certainly be offered to directly elect their mayor, mayor and mayor but at the same time will be elected by the city council, the county assembly and the municipal council. That part of thinking is guided by the experience that we all have so far, they're always a little bit of their own, and they're sharing their voices. And if we take that into account, then we might have a lot of times if we had a situation where from one option we had the mayor, mayor and mayor and here's another option, in some way ruling in the municipal, city council and county council. If things had been arranged in detail, then it would have been said, so that's even good. Here, the municipal council, city council or county council will control this mayor, mayor and mayor in a good way. We will introduce one additional control, and given all those surveys that come to us about corruption and all that is unfortunately in Croatia, there may also be one contribution that in some ways we can say freely eradicated. But if we make this system as complicated as possible, then we won't get anything. It could happen to us or that we have in one part of the local or municipal, city or county sheriff who's going to decide everything. No one's gonna be able to get him out of that place, and we might get a worse situation. On the other hand, if we don't define it clearly enough that we can get a situation where there will be referendums, statements every almost 6 or 12 months as it says here in the law. So I think that this problem, let me not be resented as a lawyer, and I can't say that I'm the most professional in this area, but I think that we all need to think a little more together about certain solutions, to come up with the best solutions that would in some way reconcile these two at first sight I'd say things between the mayor, mayor, the mayor directly elected by the people and the city council, the municipal council and the county assembly, which is also a representative body. If I could help, I think the principle of a referendum of a plea is not good. I think in this part not only that if we go from that cost-effective side that it would be an extra cost and so on, it could be abused somewhere. I don't think that this institute has yet to come to life with us and that our experiences in that part if we apply it completely in Croatia I'm afraid that after any future elections will bring us a lot of problems. Let's think about having some and transitional solutions and I think that one of the transitional solutions would certainly be that the city, municipal or county assembly directly replaces the mayor, mayor or mayor with two-thirds of the majority, and it's automatically calling a whole new election that should be because if you two thirds don't support that part, then you must know that that one-third of it is one-third plus one was definitely out of your option. It means that someone in your political option does not support you in a certain way and that you are, as mayor, mayor or mayor, mature for that resignation. And I think that would be much better than this complicated one situation where we come into these relationships. So we would have, in any case, the possibility of having stronger control, of trying to bring in a system that will work, that here maybe we don't spend that much taxpayer money because this with 33% of it means 16, 17% in this part of it can come up with certain things that might not most clearly reflect the will of the citizens. I think that would be my contribution if you would think even more closely about this and the point is that it should be considered and that this proposal certainly deserves a third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87780	Thank you. Five-minute debate of PGS Representatives' Club of SBHS, the respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87781	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues allow me to use these five minutes to start with with a question I'm actually joking about. Is it possible that the Republic of Croatia is the only country that cannot resolve some issues in its legislation? Because whenever we discuss local self-government, state relations, county, regional self-government, local self-government, we are always faced with issues that are legally insolvent. I don't know how all this works in countries where there are direct elections, how it works in countries where there is a stable local and regional government, where there's really no way to change the choice of voter will by politics, shopping and mixing. I think their, uh, legal experts were able to handle it. We don't seem to be able to do this. The question must indeed be raised whether all these discussions are not as they have been led since this topic has actually been discussed in the Assembly, in fact, the aim of playing the plebiscite commitment of Croatian voters, which is to have a direct choice of mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. If that were the goal, it would indeed be one tragedy of the overall electoral, legal and not knowing which system in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why, on behalf of the regional parties, we want to say a few things clearly. As before the debate begins on this topic, we are for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and we think that in Croatia there are those who should be able to regulate it legally and give the laws according to what it is like in Europe. Finally, we claim that in two years we will be a full member of the European Union. We're able to solve this in a satisfactory way. The second thing we think is that whoever wins the election must have a legal guarantee that it can only be changed if it violates the law and the Constitution. And that's why I think there's already been a question in this House about how it's been solved somewhere? Well, I prefer it. One who gets one vote more in the election preferences gets the condition that a stable government is four years old and cannot create political conditions to change it because of political conditions, but only because of violations of the law and the constitution. What would we say about such solutions? And such solutions are in a significant part of the European states that you secretary of state certainly know. And it's not every day that we get someone over the top. I'm not gonna use names. This debate does not serve me to spit on either the party or the options, but currently in Croatia, a small municipality is quite a wealthy municipality in which a party who has received one councilman in the elections has been assured for a month that he has the right to assume power and that he is legitimately and legally willing to take over power in that municipality. With what? Mixing, shopping, replacements, half blackmail, etc. It is a Croatian reality, it is a Croatian reality and we are unable to give a system that will guarantee that the one to whom voters give the majority has the right to be in power for the electoral term on behalf of these voters. And lastly, we want to make it clear to the direct elections that the headship's powers are passed on to the leaders, but there can't be anything. I think that the question of a certain office, the question of how it is formed must be the same law solved because otherwise, we will have a whole series of people that no one has ever chosen, who have never been on the lists, who have not received any legitimacy through advisors and gray eminences, will manage a whole series of local and regional self-governments, and that would not be democracy for us. And that is why we think that this law is definitely not what Croatia needs two or three years before its entry into the European Union and that is why we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87782	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. HSLS representative club, five-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87783	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Secretary of State. Here for the end also HSLS actually strengthened their facilities which were presented in the debate, which is that this bill unfortunately has great shortcomings, both conceptual and substantive, and these shortcomings are manifested in two ways. First, in what is missing in this law, and what should certainly be arranged in incomplete constitutional and legal matters, and logically, i.e. meaningfully inappropriate or poor concrete solutions. What is inadmissible is that parliamentary democracy institutes such as asking questions to the municipal chief, mayor or mayor by councillors with the institutions of the presidential system. The headship is abolished, and no provision is provided for by any executive, or administrative office of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor, nor is it prescribed for persons working in that office because they are directly responsible for the municipal chief, the mayor, or the mayor, and fall with him or are clean officials who have been admitted to the service on the basis of a public tender. These are things that a law like this has to settle. Furthermore, there is no provision that would prescribe a relationship between the municipal chief, the mayor and the representative body or their respective competences and relations. Worst of all, there is not a single provision that would prescribe the consequences of non-election, for example, the budget proposed by the mayor, or the mayor by the representative body. Furthermore, in our opinion, articles 40b are absolutely unacceptable. And 40c. which should regulate the political responsibility of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. Although voters, in those provisions everything else is arranged but not political responsibility. I say, it should be pointed out that it is a political responsibility where no specific conditions should be prescribed so that it can be run as it appears in this proposal. As in the current text of the Law on Local Self-Government of Article 51, there is, without any special conditions, the political responsibility of the local executive head of the representative body is thus the same as the difference that political responsibility will take place with voters. It should also be in the system of direct local selection... the head. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what's missing. First. We think the referendum is an absolutely wrong expression in this bill. It's actually about recalling or resolving the municipal chief, the mayor by the voters. Second. The procedure is too complicated – it takes too long and can create problems in the regular and effective functioning of local self-government. What the HSLS Club wants to propose is a proposal to forget and accept the classic American “recall” system applied to all elected officials in the US local authorities including councilors, police chiefs, state attorneys, etc. Because all these functions in the U.S. local self-government are original. This means, instead of calling these elected officials, that is, to be resolved in the law on the intended cases under the same conditions and by voters and by the political authority, normal early elections would be called for the municipal head, mayor or mayor, where other candidates could participate in such early elections, if the mayor, or mayor of the local presidential electoral authority, were re-elected by force of the law. We think it's actually an intensities that we want to gain to actually prevent this very constant conflict relationship between the representative body and the so-elected mayor, or mayor and mayor. The advantages of this system in relation to the recall system, i.e. by addressing the issue of the implementation of the political responsibility of the local electoral leader in a single move, i.e. in an election procedure. In contrast, in the recall system, resolutions must be conducted twice and twice immediately decided, while the Government still has to choose its commissioner. We think it's too complicated and it's actually kind of challenging the intensity of this final proposal. Finally, our assessment at the club, which is why we have proposed a third reading and that in fact these proposals are very much considered. There is absolutely a need for this third reading to which the current text of the proposal must suffer significant and very numerous additions, changes in order to really be the subject of a more serious debate in this House at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87784	Thank you very much. Five-minute debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87785	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is logical that such a serious law, such as the one that is intruding into all the pores of the local administration and self-government, brings one newspaper that has not yet been tried in these areas except before when they were secretaries of the municipal committees, but they could not be replaced. Logically, there is such a great interest and doubt, and even certain fears that remain of existing solutions in this law. We believe in the HDZ Club that we must not give up on the principle of direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors because this is a further gain of democracy in the Republic of Croatia, that we certainly ensure that the authorities operate better at local level and that it is something that we have finally agreed on. We agree that there is room for further debate on whether all the solutions in the proposed law are best affected and whether in practice it will actually be able to reflect what we wanted here in the Parliament. In view of the large number of amendments that have come to the provisions of this law, the Croatian Democratic Community club, according to Article 58 of our Rules of Procedure, proposes that this law go into third reading, to try in the third reading, to try to find a solution in the third reading, and that this law in the Assembly be adopted unanimously because this is the goal of adopting such a law unanimously in the Assembly would be the best message that the solutions we have achieved and the security later functioning of such a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87786	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87787	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So the government is intent and remains firm with this intention to introduce a direct selection of mayors in Croatia and to best regulate mutual relations between the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor and representative body. We've already taken up a number of activities. We've invited experts from the Council of Europe, so much for Europe. We have discussed with the Union of Cities and municipalities this text and received agreement on many solutions. We have heard the proposal that the law goes into third reading, and we do not object to the third reading of this law because it is indeed intended to be incorporated into it by a number of amendments that have been made today, although some are the opposite and that this law is passed with as many votes as possible, that almost an entire Parliament stands behind it to guarantee that it will apply in a better way. Although no law can replace a political culture in which we must all participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87788	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it! Like this. First. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, second reading. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am voting on the next conclusion. The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will be followed by a third reading. Please, let's get on with it! Please vote! The result? With 97 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87791	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. After the local elections held in 2005, certain difficulties arose in the assembly of individual representative bodies and caused problems that emerged by handling the resignations past the council's will. Those resignations were signed earlier, in advance, even before the elections themselves. So they created several problems before the government. The government has very principledly resolved the crises in these environments, disbanded representative bodies that had to be disbanded to remain faithful to the principle that the election mandate belonged to that councilman who was elected and that no one, besides him, could have his resignation. So with that attitude we left earlier practice which was administrative practice written by the former, let's not speak now because there is no former minister here, where it said that the resignation that was received even if it was filed...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87792	Which minister? The ones or the ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87793	So it became a practice for the written resignation to produce an effect even if, by the way, the councilman was arranged. However, we now want to unequivocally resolve this issue in a way that the written resignation must be certified by the public notary and so be it not earlier than 8 days before the arrangement. So they don't show up any old resignations for any reason. The term of office shall be served no later than 3 days before the date of scheduled holding of the session in order to make the replacement possible, the parties may propose a replacement of a member of the representative body, as well as so as to determine the next candidate from the independent list. Unlike the law in the second reading, we no longer have provisions to hold elections for members, for members of representatives of national minorities and for the councils of national minorities together with local elections. The government, meanwhile, has made a decision to call these elections in accordance with constitutional law. Therefore, the election dates will be discussed, although we will make special efforts to animate members of national minorities to respond to the elections called and to elect their representatives and thus exercise the right guaranteed by constitutional law. I think these provisions are clear enough, precise enough to prevent the abuse of resignation in future times. Although I have to say that these situations don't happen anymore. We therefore propose that this law be adopted so that from now on, it is always clear that the mandate belongs to the one whom the people have chosen and that no one beyond his will can have his mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87794	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87795	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 79th session held on 17 April 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the third reading, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 5 April 2007. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the discussion, the Committee found that in the final draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s observations, the applicant gave up the provision of elections for members of the Council of National Minorities, together with elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The Committee supported the resolution of the final draft law. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt a law supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87796	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. SDP representative club, respected representative Mato Arlovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representatives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The addition of the law itself is very short and only affects the provision of Article 7 of the applicable law which regulates, i.e. it gives an answer to the question when the member of the representative body of the local self-government ceases his term of office before the expiry of the regular four-year term, and it complements in fact paragraph 1 which explicitly prescribes that the member of the representative body ceases his term of office for other reasons if he resigns on the day of delivery of written resignations in accordance with the rules on delivery prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. The contents of the items and additions are actually prescribed by three important newspapers or three important new elements. The first is that the resignation in question should be accepted no later than three days before the scheduled meeting of the representative body. Second, the written resignation of a member of the representative body must be certified in the public notary and third, the written resignation of the public notary shall be at the earliest 8 days prior to the submission of the written resignation, i.e. before the resignation itself. All the above, of course, with an explicit legislative provision that the written resignation which is contrary to the provisions of the law itself does not produce any legal effects. Indeed, such legal provisions should be fully eliminated, i.e. to prevent the abuse of legal provisions that are only motivated by the blocking of the work of the representative body, as well as by executive bodies in local self-government units, which, in practice or could mean in concrete situations, not only the change of election results but also in the worst possible way of manipulating the will of voters expressed in the electoral procedure. It also prevents the possibility of handing out resignations to a council mandate beyond the will of the elected councilman, with the affirmation of the basic principle that resignation should and must be a manifestation of free will of anyone who has or has reached a term of office in the electoral procedure, because the resignation is nothing but the expression of the will of the elected councilman, of course understood as his personal act. In this sense, two more things really need to be pointed out. The first is that the certificate of written resignations with the public notary as well as the regulation of how much that certificate may precede the transfer of the resignation itself is prescribed, a condition which must be met when resigning, but certainly also prevents the manipulation of the resignations in any way, and in particular excludes the possibility of signing and certifying before or shortly after the local elections of the resignation itself, its deposit or handling from anyone other than the elected councilman. Secondly, such a legal solution makes it impossible to change the opinion before a representative body's sitting itself, since the resignation received and arranged cannot be withdrawn and certainly gives the possibility to prepare material for a representative body's session, as well as the legal determination or legal determination of a deputy to the member who resigns. And final. This paper in the Law on selecting members of the representative body of the unit of local self-government will prevent manipulations of council mandates, thereby reducing the possibility of corruptive behaviour in the constitution, but also the work of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government and the proposed additions, and in this sense absolutely need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87798	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87799	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is said from the very title of this bill that this is the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units and local and regional and regional self-government, the third reading. It speaks enough of how serious it is to adopt laws in the area of local and regional self-government. The rule is confirmed that a great deal of interest for these laws and regulations of government is confirmed because people feel the most and the best sense of what it means when the council is changed, a representative body in their midst where almost everyone in the smaller environments is familiar with each other and there is a well-informed rule of good conduct and morality. It is also a wish for this proposal to introduce to the electoral system at local level the necessary written resignations on the council mandate in the representative body of the unit of local, or regional self-government, in the case of the public notary, which is the strictest act, the act of self-certification in order to avoid and prevent any kind of manipulation and rapid thinking. The deadline for the submission of written resignations of a member of the representative body and the time limit for the certification of written resignations by the public notary was set before it was submitted. Of course, the consequences that arise in the event of non-compliance with the procedure and the time limit for resigning in the representative body of the unit of local, or regional self-government. This will certainly prevent and prevent any possibility of handing out bianko resignations to a councilman's councilman's councilman's office, who has been elected to the elections, so that the political party to whom the council member belongs will not be elected overnight or through the will of the political party, thus allowing elected councillors to exercise their constitutional and legal right to act on the council's duty under the law elected in the local elections. It will also prevent the abuse of laws by individuals or political parties with the aim of blocking the work of a representative or executive body in relation to a local, or regional self-government unit, so the resignation of a member of a representative body which has been submitted in exactly the manner prescribed in paragraph 1 of this Article is very precise, firm, clear and logically prepared, and therefore it says when the resignation of a member of the representative body is to be made and written, at the earliest eight days before the submission. When looking at the procedure that preceded this bill, it is seen that this good practice is for the secretary of state to consult with the associations of the alliances of cities, municipalities, experts always fruitful because it results in the best possible proposal, and the very great interest that was once before with the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government tells us that it is precisely good material suitable for discussion, but I believe that here the opposition would show we are going to the fourth reading that it is possible, so we need to adopt and achieve what the law says as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87800	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87801	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that situations in certain units of local self-government have led to difficulties in the conduct of the mandates of individual council members and that it is necessary to prevent the abuse of the will of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government that has emerged in recent years through the institution of activation of so-called ‘the’. Bianca's resignations. I think that the law should develop the constitutional principle of non-binding mandate as well as the change of party uniforms of members of representative bodies directly affecting the electoral outcome and playing the will and electoral outcome of the electoral body made in the elections themselves, so in that sense it is necessary to elaborate the amendments to the law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government and I think that is the essence of the problem that this proposal does not solve in its third reading, unfortunately. The consequences of the adoption of this Act, the government says, will prevent the possibility of supplying so-called. Bianca's resignations to the council's office beyond the will of the elected councilman. In fact, such resignations were signed in advance without a date, i.e. the Bianca, and that was often the condition for the candidate to even come on the list. The one who activated and lectured on ordering such a resignation had previously entered the date, so they were no longer bienko anymore, but the councilman was in a position not to let him go to the council meeting because he was reportedly no longer a councilman. This approach to the problem is fine by me because it protects the right and freedom of choice of elected councilman, but this variant of the proposal does not cover or protect the right of individual voters as well as the will of the entire electoral body expressed through an election result because it does not sanction the purchase of a mandate and so on. defectors. So, neither is sanctioned by anyone who buys a mandate, nor is one who sells by changing party colors, but through an existing lack of legal solution sanctions voters and encourages the growing disinterest of citizens to go to elections because they say nothing is going to change anyway, so what will go to the elections. Unfortunately, it often turns out that there are many examples of coups and changes in electoral outcomes in individual local units that have been discussed in the previous debate and debate on the previous point of amendments and addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I see that the motioner has ruled out the provisions relating to the resignation and thus accepted my remarks from the previous reading of the proposal of this Law when I was wondering what the institute of resignation was in the first place if the councilman had resigned in person. Such an option is not necessary because people on candidate lists, and especially elected council members are serious enough and adults to play with their own credibility and dignity. So to sum up the good news is to solve the problem of abuse of Bianca's resignations, but buying a mandate and so on. The defects which, in my opinion, make the essence of the problem even this variant of the law does not sanction anything. I therefore conclude that there is no real desire for the promoter to really change something and to sanction the phenomena that have occurred in recent months in several counties, cities and municipalities, but only to try to throw dust into the public's eyes once more, so I will not be able to support this kind of public manipulation and this House of Commons in this reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87802	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, please allow for a little dyspression. This morning during the debate on this final proposal of the Law, I said that after my colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović had finished his presentation that, since she had been smudged, that he simply said that he was taking care of his voice, etc., that he was going to the doctor and the like and now you see what turns out on some HR index, it says that I made fun of my colleague, that I, that the left side rebelled against that remark, the right side to join a smile, etc. and, therefore, simply from one point of view that I have made very well-intentionedly, everything is going on and on and on, in this Index HR, there are all sorts of other remarks about both my colleague and myself being spoken of in an offensive way. My colleague Antičević! If you want, tell the public whether I made fun of you, insulted you or...?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87803	Well, I could say that not only now, but never even though we've had any objections but there's never been any sexist nor illusion nor illusion on your part. Unlike some others, no matter which sides, and it would be very bad if they were to break up in some way to the extreme I would say the limits of things set by losing what is really for the conviction, as happened to Lalic. But what you've well-intentioned, health care can be a very nice way, it doesn't have to be strict in such a way that it would pull back, and in such a way that not only you, but we, as representatives, too, would lead to that we have no other business here than to mess around. I don't think it's good for anyone, for anyone in this assembly, and we all have to get up and raise our voices even when we're out. Thank you very much. /Applause./ [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87804	Thank you very much, dear colleague. ... At the hearing, the representative Bozidar Pankretić. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go. Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87805	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must really say that there will be great skills to cope with the interpretation and implementation of legal provisions that will regulate the issue among other things and the termination of the term of office of the municipal commissioner, the mayor or the mayor and his deputy. Namely, we have in the system either in force or in those who should soon be in place several different solutions. In fact, what law will be applied at a given time, and what provision will be resolved? I would just like to remind you that we have a final debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, which, among other things, provides for a quote: "If it is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of prison for more than a month..." we now have an amendment and an addition of the Law on Local Self-Government under which the provision remains if it is legally sentenced to a verdict of 6 months. We just need to vote this law, the debate is over. This new one should also be voted upon by which these solutions should be followed. And those two laws mention the question of resignation. In addition, Article 12 states that if it resigns, in Article 40a, new Article 8, it writes if it resigns, as in Article 7 of the applicable Law on the selection of members of the representative body of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And now all of a sudden it goes with the solutions about being precise in terms of this amendment and supplementing the law what is considered a resignation and when it can be... First, it is a very interesting solution that follows that the written resignation of a member of the representative body is made in the manner prescribed in paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look out! It states in Article 7, if you submit, for resignation, on the date of delivery of written resignations, in accordance with the rules on the delivery of rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the general administrative procedure, inter alia, there is the possibility to give a statement to the competent authority, a statement of a particular action. In particular, the oxy councilman ascends to the Municipal Council and declares that he is resigning from the record. Is that in accordance with the law on administrative proceedings the correct day of resignation? The court would probably take a stand if it were. Now we say no here. No later than three days before the meeting of the representative body is scheduled. The question is, are we, in fact, denying or narrowing down the rights of the councilmen themselves? Secondly, it says here, among other things, that this resignation must be certified by the public notary, so the second additional question is asked, is this a public notary job and is this a burden to be paid by a councilman, or is it perhaps only a municipal council, given that it is a councilman? And third, which may still be the most important. And how will the resignation given on the record to the competent authority of the local administration of the local self-government unit be verified? So now, not only the Municipal Council as a representative body of public declaration through a discussion of the minutes, but you simply come as a councilman and make a statement to the President of the Council and Secretary of the Municipal Council. You have been written down, which is then in terms of the administrative procedure legally given, legitimately the day of resignation, and we are now looking for something completely different. I don't think a solution like this, an idea that wants to be achieved, is actually going to be realized. I find it quite clear and unequivocally that resignation must be a personal act, that there is no distinction between resignation, irrevocable resignations, as once said, especially when it comes to public, public authorities, or whether you quit or didn't. Therefore, I do not consider it necessary for this to be verified, as I also do not consider it necessary for this to happen at least three days before the appointment, it may happen at the Council's meeting itself. What's crucial is that we have to be different so that no one else can resign on behalf of anyone else. Now, that's something important. And that's the whole problem. We've actually had through so-called. the part-time action of our party managements the situation in individual parties that candidates for councilors, that candidates I don't even know about parliamentary representatives, had to sign in advance that at a given time they would resign and place it in the register with their party leaderships that they had handled. Of course, that's when the councilmen said I didn't give it. And in a situation like this, there's a serious problem. I think that we simply have to resolve as in the existing law resolved possibly by a small provision, that resignation is a personal act, that whoever resigns in writing and a statement to the competent authority of the local self-government unit or the presidential body itself has stopped his mandate and that is by law, there is nothing to be determined by the council. The Council only opens proceedings on the basis of this fact when someone who is authorized to propose his deputy and to come to that place on the basis of such a fact. And I think these things where we further bureaucratize the work of representative bodies actually complicate even more. Because you know, every single one of these actions that is now being done here, you can open the question not only do you know about protection in the administrative dispute of the individual councilman's right to resign or not to resign, but also the rights of the council or individual factions in the council to protect his rights. Because what if it's a means of abuse of the rights of others? For example, if you have a situation that in municipal councils, city councils one vote is on the scale of what now if you have a permanent "Damak's Sword" that someone can resign three days before the council's meeting and crash the quorum, or power... Do you know what powerful weapons we have for such people and individuals who are or are parties who are making that scale we give to the fact that the ruling majority or majority in that council are putting them into a situation so that they can come up with a mild notion of using pressure to survive and be held in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's in the spirit of democratic relations and the principles to be done and for all these reasons I personally cannot vote for this law, I will be against it as I also believe that we must return to the legal norms, of course legal norms need to regulate the rules of the game. The rights, obligations and responsibilities of all, including councilors, but it must be provided a little more and morale in all of this and morale is not at all questionable to me if we have an institute of resignation because the person who resigns as a personal act must really stand behind it. You can't talk. I took it today. I couldn't take it the second time. I was joking. So for this reason, if we want to prevent that part from being manipulated by the institute, then let's say at the time of submission on the representative body or the body of a part of the local self-government, or if you want, it could be in writing when it's not possible in the council and possibly even verify it with a public notary even if it's completely ridiculous to me. And if the municipal councilman has submitted a written resignation, there is no need for any confirmation from the public notary, the biggest certificate is actually the public who is behind it on the basis of being informed because none of them will do so without entering the public at the same time because of the political struggle, because each time is the result of a political struggle. There are exceptional cases when it comes to disease. But if it is a disease or an inability to perform a function, then there is no problem with the resignations submitted, the question has never been raised. That's why this is completely pointless, this is still bureaucratizing procedures, the functioning of representative bodies that don't give the result that we want to achieve. So, I support the proposal's intention to address these issues but I think the proposed resolution instrument is actually not good, and that would make me more of a solution that should be set out in Article 7(1), subparagraph 1. resign at the time of submission of the resignation or its delivery of the written dispatch to the competent authority of the unit of local or regional self-government and the completed matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not here anymore. And then avoid, of course, the possibility that I as club president, the one as party president, the one in that, and now I'm resigning on behalf of someone else or someone else's resignation, I deliver. It does not work, it is actually a trading mandate and it is also a pressure on the councilor or representatives of the citizens on how they will exercise their office and then fail to perform their functions in accordance with those who have chosen him but in accordance with those who have nominated him or her. And I think it's the opposite of itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87806	Thank you. Final review by Secretary of State of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87807	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We discussed this in the content of the same bill in the first reading for two days, in the second reading somewhat shorter here and now we have completed a relatively fast third reading. This law remains with us because we want this issue to be regulated normably, although we now have such a practice that no one can hesitate until otherwise decided, it does not pass a different law and it does not seem to me to be. So it's clear that binco resignations can no longer produce an effect. Therefore, we would like that set of local self-government to be discussed together and adopted together. We discussed the Law on the direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. He is waiting with a vote to complete the discussion of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, so the law that will regulate this mutual relationship. It seems to me that it is a dominant opinion that the law is headed for a third reading and that we are not opposed to. Well, I wouldn't mind voting on this law at the same time as those laws, so it's a big step forward for local self-government in Croatia. I'm saying we're in no hurry. The instruments, the norms of this law are already in practice so that I thank all those who through three readings helped to make it better and we do not object to voting along with other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87808	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a debate, so make a correction. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president at the home of Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87809	Mr. President, a little problem has arisen since the secretary of state has said that this law is already in practice. I've got to fix it. It's pretty hard to apply the law in practice that doesn't exist. Okay, that can be virtual but there's one fact question left. [[Intruder: Ghost.]] And I agree that this goes into the third reading, so that by the third reading, the issue can be resolved. And there's something else I need to tell you. It is impossible to correct this law only through the correction of the law and the addition of the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies because at the same time we have a proposal for a law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies who may also cease the term of office by the resignation. Now, the question is whether the same institute applies to both mayors and mayors, as well as representatives of municipal and municipal assembly bodies. I think that these things should be brought into line and it would be good in a country where the principle of constitutionality and the legality of the rule of law is to avoid the situation to apply the spirit of the law that it does not have. Because if you don't have the law how can you have his spirit, in practice I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87810	It's because matter and spirit, the spirit exists and the matter is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87811	And it's a matter of transforming matter into energy and energy into matter. But that's what it's all about. [[Intruder: Yes, well]] We'll discuss it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87812	Einstein's formula. As can be seen in the final draft of the law on the election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, the Croatian Parliament postponed the vote after the debate. He postponed the vote until the vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The law today has been discussed in a second reading, and the proposal is that a conclusion will surely be reached to conduct the debate to go into the third reading. And this Final Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Selection of Members of the Representative Authorities of the Unit of Local and Regional Self-Government was held, a debate was held in the third reading, and it is certain that when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it will be sent to the third reading and will await the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. That it is most logical, then, to reach a conclusion on this law which will be held together with these previous two laws. I'm closing the debate on this bill now. And this proposal for a conclusion, as far as I know, is already being initiated and will be voted on Friday if we should vote on these laws at 13 o'clock. 13 o'clock. It's summer, so let's go to the polls a little while ago. Second. Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government third reading. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A vote on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies, units of local and regional self-government, third reading, Proposal for a Law No. 428 will be held at the same time as the vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb." Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 97 votes for, 7 abstentions and 1 against, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87816	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there are two draft laws before you... The same content: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts and amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are seemingly small laws with perhaps small changes, but they seem to be the beginning of a major reform, so I dare say a revolution that will follow in our judicial system. At first glance, it seems that no special attention or attention has been paid so far, but because courts and courts are there to protect the rights of citizens that each, every place, every municipality should have a court. It's also a traditional presence. It's a reflection of one progress. It may reflect the needs of citizens to protect their rights. However, it did not really raise the question not only of necessity but of the quality of the need to enable the principle of impartiality and rationality in terms of the cost of such a judicial system. Croatia is a small state of enough, a specific geographical position, but it currently has 266 courts in its 4 and a half million inhabitants. Of this we only allow a brief reminder with the Supreme Court as the highest court we have the High Criminal Court, the High Court of Commerce, the High Administrative Court and the 21 County Court covering 107 municipal courts that are open. Otherwise, there should be a total of 114. The High Violent Court and the Second Instance Court for 110 Violent Courts, 4 are still unopened and the High Commercial Court is a second-degree court for 13 courts in the Republic of Croatia. Sometimes it is ungrateful to go by some parameters or analyses carried out by various commissions including the Commission on the effectiveness of the judiciary. However, these analyses because the situation and establishment of the judicial system in these countries can be different. However, these analyses show that Croatia, as has already been said many times, has compared with other countries and a very large number of courts. We have the largest number of courts along with Turkey and Switzerland. So we're between two countries in a different position. But the analysis shows that we have, say, 266 courts or 6 courts per 100,000 inhabitants, or we have 52 courts first degree to a million inhabitants, unlike, say, Finland, which has 13, Hungary, which has 13, Moldova that has 15 and Slovenia that has 30. That's our relationship, and as far as the number of judges is concerned. We have 44 judges on 100,000 residents and judicial staff. That is why, as one of the important reform procedures in the implementation of the justice reform strategy, it is indeed a imperative that I dare say actually change, the rationalisation of such a system of courts in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the state's attorneys as law enforcement authorities. And that is why we adopted in our justice strategy the rationalization of courts as one of the important procedures, priorities. But when I say priority, it doesn't mean that this big project can be carried out overnight. That we'll tomorrow... The movement of feathers to lift a large number of dishes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are painful processes. These are demanding processes. These are processes that are costing a lot and that need to be approached really after a thorough analysis really thoughtfully. It is no secret that, and precisely for the reason that I have now cited one of the requirements in the negotiation process that Croatia rationalises the judicial network by actually making such an optimal number of courts. In order to achieve these two objectives, but mainly because of us in order to achieve the quality of justice in the Ministry of Justice as part of the government, and through some projects, it is precisely these fundamental analyses that are being done. There's also something I'm about to say in English... Analysis. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So, comparison of cost of costing now this expensive judicial system. We do not forget that there are around 1930 judges in Croatia. We've got about six and a half thousand employees and tenants. Therefore, it is a system that is extremely costing, not to mention financing the very material costs of courts. These are all the reasons that require us to design a more rational judicial network with the costs and demands of the quality of the court's work. In addition to the fact that a different structure of courts should really be considered, of course not reducing the citizens' access to the court tells the fact that approximately, not approximately, but exactly 107 municipal courts in Croatia, we have eight courts with only one judge and 16 courts with two judges and 16 courts with three judges. Indeed, the question is whether we need to have a court with one judge to employ ten more people, and we have a court of another who is far away from this court of the same one, in the same situation 20, 30 kilometers and sometimes less. Since the debate is united as far as Criminal Courts are concerned, the situation is even different, or even better, because of the situation of things, we have 37 courts with one judge and 31 courts with two judges. So these are all the reasons that still give the right to say that we cannot expect to have such a small court with one judge who will be a court of quality and who will conduct their task in the best possible way. I dare say we're all in one of those situations. We'd all still like to have a court in our seats. Then all those reasons that now speak are diminishing. However, I think that the future still requires us in that direction one much more objective criteria for determining the number. In order to avoid really great earthquakes, because these are earthquakes, the government will approach this issue and access gradually. That is why the government concluded at its meeting on 9 March this year that the process of rationalising the network of courts in Croatia is just beginning, so that the courts of the same species will be joined, so the way is determined. Now with this proposal, the proposal for these laws actually takes a step further on a limited copy, so by joining a total of ten or five courts, by leaving five courts, this complex and demanding procedure begins. In doing so, we were guided by really objective criteria. So, I've already told some of them. All analyses show that really small courts are not courts that can conduct a high-quality procedure, are not courts that can therefore meet citizens' demands not to say that such courts can then be more easily accused with all their need to be professional and to be really and professional, not only professional but also impartial and to resist if nothing else is required by a local environment where everyone knows each other. Starting from these criteria, or starting to show that all analyses show that it is most optimal to have courts up to five judges taking cases there naturally inflows according to framework measures for five judges and population numbers, and the distance of one of the courts to 50 km. This bill proposes to bring together a total of ten, i.e. leaving five courts with new seats both municipal and criminal. The bill therefore proposes, for everything I have stated, that the municipal court in Bjelovar and the municipal court in Čazma in the Municipality Court of Bjelovar, the municipal court in Klanjac and the municipal court in Zabok in the Municipal Court in Zabok, the municipal court in Donji Lapac and the municipal court in Korenica in the Municipality Court in Korenica, the municipal court in Čabra and the municipal court in Delnice in the Municipal Court in Delnice, and the Municipal Court in Poreč and the Municipality Court in Rovinj in the Municipal Court in Poreč. In terms of criminal courts, the same number is proposed by this law, but it is also proposed to merge the Criminal Court in Karlovac and the Criminal Court in Ozlja to the Criminal Court in Karlovac, the Criminal Court in Chabra and the Criminal Court in Delnice in the Criminal Court of Delnice, the Criminal Court in Glina and the Criminal Court in the Iron, the Criminal Court in Glina, the Criminal Court in Grazac and the Criminal Court in Obrovec to the Criminal Court in Obrovec, and the Criminal Court in the Lower Lapac and the Criminal Court in Korenica in the Criminal Court in Korenica. It will always be possible to ask the question that it could have been another court. This will be repeated until the process is complete. The Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has assessed and assessed that, for the beginning of this phase, and with certain consultations with the local environment, a rationalisation procedure can be initiated with the proposed courts. Of course, this is the first reading, this is a bill of law and parliamentary representatives as well as local environments still have and should give their opinion on the start of this process. I owe you an apology. When proposing the appointed law, the Government as a Proposer missed the correct word in the text of the law, and this is the law on areas and courts instead of the Municipality of Grubisno Polje, the city of Grubisno Polje should now stand, so here I am correcting this error. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87817	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mato Arlović, vice president of the House first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87818	Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's kind of hard for me to accept your claim, and that's why I have to correct it. That you have taken sufficient care of the criteria in determining which courts should be merged and which should be shut down. In this particular case, I'm going to give an example that deny actually this that you've taken care of the criteria enough. The court case in Rovinj and Poreč, under which the Rovinj court would cease to exist and the seat should be moved to Poreč. You probably weren't really clear on this yourself because in the very text of the reasoning you say that this seat should remain in Rovinj, and in the solution you offer a solution by which it should be moved to Poreč. But there are a few things that are important to the criteria. The first court in Rovinj is a bilingual court in which, among other things, the rights of national minorities are exercised in accordance with the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. Secondly, it's one of the oldest courts in Istria over 200 years. The third is a very effective court. Fourthly, the court which established land books and many other things and includes the interests and needs of more than 21,000 citizens. I think it's a very serious situation that's denying you that you've taken enough care of the application of the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87819	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87820	Mr. President, I'd like to ask that what Mrs. Secretary said if that were true, but it wasn't. She said it was the laws in the first reading. These laws are one and the other at least nominally so according to our agenda in the first and second readings, therefore in a hasty procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87821	It's said to have been a lapus!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87822	And that's an incorrect quote!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87823	Yeah. The committees, the judiciary. The Honorable representative of the board's chairman Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87824	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. At the 54th session held on 24 April 2007, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts with the Final Proposal for Law. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In her opening statement, the justice minister pointed out that the judiciary reform strategy contains measures to reform, including the rationalisation of the network of courts. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its conclusion of 9 March 2007 began the process of rationalising the merger of courts of the same kind and in the framework of the CARDS project in 2003, determined the merger of 5 municipal and 5 infringement courts. The Working Party for drawing up proposals for the rationalisation of the network of courts has established the criteria of merger, so the merger of courts in which the judge's duties performs a smaller number of judges than five, i.e. courts within a distance of 50 km. Following the implementation of the proposed mergers of courts, further rationalisation shall follow. The proposal provides for the termination of the term of office of the presidents of the municipal courts to be joined, and the minister of justice will authorise the person to perform the affairs of the judicial administration until the appointment of a new court president in the municipal courts in Bjelovar, Zabok, Korenica, Delniki and Poreč. In the discussion, a member of the Committee expressed dissatisfaction with the merger of the Municipal Court in Bjelovar and the Cazma Municipal Court, noting the long tradition of the court in Chazma. The Minister of Justice has shown a clear commitment from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the implementation of the reform. She is aware that there will be dissatisfaction with the local community. In a specific case, she pointed out that the Cazma Municipal Court has three judges, and a small number of cases, slightly more than one judge. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 5 votes for and 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Assembly, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87825	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 58th session held on 25 April 2005 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered the Final Proposal of this Law as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee members specifically pointed out the need to review the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, given that this Proposal for a Law regulates highly sensitive matter. They stressed that a new network of municipal courts is being established without defining clear criteria that would respect a whole series of important assumptions for the existence of individual courts, which should be based on the rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee is of the opinion that the rationalisation of courts should be based on basic criteria, the availability of courts to citizens and the speed of settlement of cases. The specificities of certain areas, the geographical orientation of citizens to certain municipalities and cities, and the transport connection must not be ignored. For example. There is no bus line between Lower Lapca and Korenica. The importance of individual courts in the traditional sense and life of citizens. The municipality court in Rovinj has existed since 1811 and is the first earthly court in Istria. But also an indication of the elementary assumptions for the achievement of certain civil rights, grantovnica, cadastre, etc. When it comes to the Rovinj Municipal Court, it is noted that it is one of the two bilingual courts in which the proceedings are conducted both in Croatian and Italian. Its accession to the Municipal Court in Poreč would mean the regression of the rights of national minorities reached, which is contrary to the signed treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Italian Republic on the rights of minorities from 1977, which, among other things, has been arranged to retain and extend the rights acquired, rather than further restrict. It has also been pointed out that it is not defined how these attachments will be achieved, that is, whether this accession will only be formal and that the work will take place in the same courts, whether judges and officials will move to the proposed courts, which means that there will be no reduced number of employees, and then even rationalisation, whether individual offices in the attached courts and similar. In the opinion of the members of the Committee, it was necessary to explain and to regulate this proposal. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 5 for 1 against 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law with districts and seats of courts, but in addition to amendments. I now, here there are 3 amendments, but two are nomotechnical in nature because they change because with the change of the one that is important here, Amendment number 3 is deleted and the words "Revelation and Rovinj" in Article 14 paragraph 1 are deleted, the words "Reveal and Rovinj" are deleted, and in paragraph 2 the word "Porec" is deleted, meaning there is no merger between the courts in Poreč and Rovinj. The reason is that the proposed amendments want to maintain the existing situation, i.e. to prevent the abolition of the Municipal Court in Rovinj. For a number of reasons. One is that the Municipality court in Rovinj has a long tradition of nearly two centuries. Two, the primary court in Rovinj is a bilingual court. Three, the Municipality court in Rovinj is the first court in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to transform land books into an information system. Furthermore, it is currently a matter of reconstruction of the court building thanks to the material resources provided by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Rovinj. Furthermore, the inflow of cases according to framework criteria also warrants more systematicisation than 5 judges. Furthermore, the total number of inhabitants over 21 000 from the territory of this court justifys the existence of the same. In addition to the fact that the primary court in Rovinj is of exceptional historical importance for this area, this court is of great importance to the Italian national minority, since the equal use of Croatian and Italian languages is achieved in this court, I say insufficiently but is realized, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87827	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87828	Mr. President, State Secretary, Madam Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of the functioning of the judiciary is indeed a fundamental issue of the functioning of every rule of law and it is an essential condition for the exercise of the fundamental principle of rule of law. Our judicial system, if we look at it today, has already been evaluated a number of times, and one of the basic estimates is that we have a really large number of courts, a large number of judges, but also a large number of unsolved cases. All the objections that have come to us in the process of joining the European Union are largely relevant and are the most severe ones in the area of the functioning of the judiciary. We see for ourselves these days that our judges are very often the main stars in the media, and unfortunately not for good effects, but for some very questionable things. It certainly isn't good, but even if we were to assess the situation in our judiciary three years ago and the state it is today, I think we could still give a significantly better assessment than it was three years ago. And we in this House in this conference have made a really great effort, we have made a number of amendments to the law, we have taken significant steps to improve the situation. I would just like to remind quickly that we have passed a new Law on Courts, that by amending the law, we have accelerated the land-book procedure, that we have carried out the digitization of grantovna, that by amending the Law on Perspectives, we have relieved the courts because we have placed one part of the commission, and one part of it based on credible documents, in the jurisdiction of the notaries. We recently passed amendments to the Law on Register Courts where for the first time we introduce electronic delivery and communication means registration court with parties via computers. We have amended the Law on the State Judicial Council, so we have made one more effective step-by-step procedure possible, we insist on judges' responsibilities. By law of the courts, we've introduced a judicial inspection. We see from all reports that the judicial academy is working well for us because the education of judges in this new system is very important. We have delegated the cases, we have allowed the President of the Supreme Court to unload those courts that are loaded and carrying the burden of a large number of cases, we have deployed some of these cases to less burdened. And if we look at the result of all of this today, it's still that we've managed to bring that number of million-and-a-half unsolved items down to below a million. That gives us hope, and it's actually one confirmation that we've done a lot of good and that we're going the right way. These are as the secretary of state said, two smaller laws, however, are very important in their content because they introduce a different organisation and different work in the judiciary. We have also assessed to the National Strategy for Justice Reform that the network of courts is not suitable for us, that we have too many courts and that this network needs to be made more rational. But we can see from this mini specimen that it's not going to go that easily, because we're all for rationalization, but if it touches our city and our court, then I'd really like it to go to another city after all. And so I think that we must insist on what we have set for ourselves in the national strategy, because rationalising the courts actually means a big step forward. We have seen and heard the data of how many courts we have in Croatia where one or two, or three judges, and indeed such a court question makes sense that they exist as independent courts. If we bring such vessels together and encircle them into larger courts, what will we come up with? We're just going to get to a more efficient system, a more efficient way of working. In these larger courts we will be able to have judges who will specialize, which means they will be specialists either for criminal or for litigation or for some other kind of procedure. If we have specialized judges, we'll have faster case resolution in those areas and we'll have better judgments, we'll have less appeal procedures, we'll have less work in second-degree county courts, and I think that's a really good way to go. However, it will be very difficult to say anywhere that a court is abolished or better told to connect with another court, and perhaps in this future period, we should consider a solution that will reconcile. What's important here to say is that someone's perception is that something's being lifted and something in a town stops and it's not there. I think that's the wrong perception. Because if we say two courts merge, there's a new court. The court that we call it no longer exists, but the building of that court will continue to be in that city where it was. The courtrooms in that building will continue to be in that building where they were, the judges who tried there will continue to be in that building and further court proceedings will be conducted there. Whether within the office days or every day, depends on the number of items that will be there. But in any case, the judge from that city will be able to go to another city because he may be a specialist in some kind of case. So that's kind of how it's supposed to be perceived, and maybe to think about it, this would be one proposal that I suggest you think about, that we go eventually and with a view to preventing these kind of resistances that will certainly be in the future, to think about amending the Law on Courts in a way that we can change the Law on Courts and open up the possibility that a single administration or appoints a President of the Court would be appointed for several municipal courts. I think that's how we'd achieve the same effects. The courts do not have legal subjectivity, legal personality and potential meaning by a single administration for several courts I believe we would come to the same effects as here. So it's just one proposal that we should think about. The Croatian Democratic Community club, what I will conclude, is aware of the problems of the irrational network of courts. We will support this law and hope that the effects that a more rational network of courts will get, that these effects will be visible very quickly and that we will have no problem in further measures that we will take to rationalise the network of courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87829	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87830	Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, you said that nationalisation, i.e. by adopting such a law, will make the effects that will be achieved very quickly visible. I would like some of these effects not to be visible and that they do not happen at all, and that is why I have to correct that part because I would like to remind you that this would lead to a situation where we have a law that does not comply with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities Article 22, in particular paragraph 2 of that article, issue one. And number two, that would have a very, very unpleasant connotation for the Republic of Croatia both internally and internationally. Let me recall Article 22(2) tells members of national minorities that representation is ensured in the bodies of the state administration and the judicial authorities in accordance with the provisions of a special law, taking into account the participation of members of national minorities in the total population at the level at which the body of the state administration or judicial authority is established and rights acquired. I would like to remind you that, for example, the Rovinj Municipal Court is established in Rovinj, that it is about acquired rights and that, in accordance with the structure of the population and the influence of the national minority of the Italians in Rovinj, they have the right to certain representations. If that seat is moved to a court level in Poreč, that relationship will change and harm both this constitutional law and the acquired rights, and therefore I ask you to do it through that part, I know that the reconstruction needs to be done, but not in this way because we could have negative consequences that could cost us much more than the project itself, so maybe we could eventually turn into the first reading and then find the best solution that will fit the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87831	U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87832	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will come from this which is highlighted in reason as the main reason why it is going to change this law. I think it's being undermined by this rationalization. Now, rationalisation in the judiciary, in my opinion, implies the efficiency and availability of the citizens' trial. That makes me think two key things in the subtitle rationalization story. Now, if we were to start from that criterion, so we're rationalizing from that attitude and we want to implement it in substance, then rationalization in my opinion might be subject to the following few things. I now list those issues that I think are problematic both in the production of efficiency and in the relationships that we have in the system, which are socially unacceptable. The first thing in this is the mechanism of election and appointment of judges because, under the protection of autonomy, an election is being made that produces affairs and polemics and calls into question the objectivity and honesty and judging and alimony of the best people to do so. I'm not going to get into how it can be better, but I'm just saying the effect we now have in society on the appointment of judges. The second thing that seems to me to be an important judicial profession is Czech protection of the right to autonomy and more than expertise, justice and efficiency. If you took the figures that prove it or did not prove it then we would see that this issue of expertise, the issue of justice, the issue of efficiency is the product of an affair in which counterpart Bosnjakovic also spoke earlier. The third thing that on the list of questions that are the reason for rationalization is the unjustified length of court proceedings, a tiresome long trial because it discourages faith in justice. There are countless cases that are at the border or have crossed the limit of time spent and entered the area of non-resolvement within a reasonable period of time, which would require the Constitutional Court to punish the state with some of the money for not solving it within a reasonable period of time. The fourth thing that also deserves to be placed as an important item under the heading rationalising the playing of court procedure in order to deceive justice as far as possible only in the incompetence of the profession, some other things are possible, but when you have a competent profession it will prevent it. The fifth thing that seems to me to be this important professional competence that anyone who holds on to himself when he does something keeps his undivided authority recognized and publicly visible. Now we're saying that the code only appears in the form of light examples. And the sixth thing is the overall social atmosphere and the public opinion of this situation in the justice system takes this as a regular state of affairs, and now I'm not going to go any further, but it seems to me, these are all very difficult issues and I'm aware that these are large bites individually and that it can't be so easily entered into and that it can't be changed so easily and that it can't change your hand like this, so it's almost, so it takes a long time, but these are undeniably large issues under which you have to plant your back or shoulders and you need to get into it. In my opinion, if we were to enter into the rationalization of the judiciary with any of these issues or with a few of these issues, it would be rationalization from the thick end. And I know that rationalization from the thick end, it's hard now. You can talk about how politically opportunistic it is, but I don't think a serious conversation about it should ignore this. Instead, we here have a proposal that is rationalization from a slim end. I think it's from a thin end. Even from a shallow end, I think. So we're going into a proposal that is the easiest thing to do right now, because it's the cheapest. There can be the least noise about it. And it seems to me that through this proposal we do not achieve what I initially mentioned as a criterion. First, effective trial and secondly, the availability of this trial to citizens. We don't provide it here. It even seems to me that this proposal in some concrete examples that I'm going to mention here goes counter to this criterion. Now let's do this. It's been said that you're Madam Secretary of State or somewhere in the debate I don't know anymore, but it doesn't matter now, we've been told we have a 50km criterion, all that's within 50 kilometers we're going to connect it. Well, then you have a Lapac that has less than 50 air lines. She's probably 20. But when a man needs to go from Lapca to Korenica for trial, he's 110. And then when it's four months of snow, then it can't go there at all. Well, let's put our trust in that. Let's put our trust in that. But that means that we haven't actually received a citizen's case to get him in touch and that he's faster and that we have some kind of social control that's going on. Another thing that applies to the same thing. Says Mr. Bosnjakovic, and there's probably something that makes sense. He says there's gonna be a good building, there's going to be people left, there's going to be a register, there's going to be what I know what else is going to be left and there's going to be a court case. That means that rationalization is done only by abolishing one of the presidents of the court and saving some money. And if that's the ultimate goal, if it's not just the goal, if that's the ultimate effect, then it seems to me it's a cheap effect for the negative result that we're going to have in it. I'd get up at the same time, you even have this situation, you know the pattern. The people of Grazac will go to Obrovac in criminal proceedings. Gračac is Lika, orientated by Lika, there are some traditions, some fixed relationships, some traffic routes, some kind of timetables, all of that exists. He's not going, he's not in line with what we want. He's not, he can't, so that's not it. It's not real life. Now, of course, we can set up another life with a pattern, so you citizens are doing how we set up the timetable, and then people will get used to it for a while. But that doesn't make sense. That doesn't make sense. And I'm going to mention one more thing. She might in, if we're gonna be tough on money and strict on some verticals, then what I'm about to say might not make sense. But you know, we can establish an equation with no population, so then we don't need a court, we don't need a school, we don't need an ambulance, we don't need a bus stop, which I know doesn't need anything. I don't know if she needs anything. The story can be reversed in another way. And if there's no court, there's no infirmary, so there's no school, then there won't be any people. Then there won't be people. Now the question is, what are we in the basic concept that we offer in this matter? There's a middle of this that I mentioned earlier, for example. Probably some others, but I don't know, where it's likely that the reverse solutions should be put in place, just to make people's lives there more comfortable, so that they're not deserts, and there's more of them. If we don't think about it, I allow it to be optional to nobody but if we don't think about it and then we have this proposal, then we get a pattern that seems to me not to care about life, and in many situations it goes completely counter life. And in the end, I'm going to say what my colleague Arlovic was saying and what my colleague Furio was saying here. You also have this relationship of minority majority and constitutional rights, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Then where there's a possibility that minorities can get some right under that constitutional law, according to the criteria of their numbers and by the ratio of numbers, and then you move those relationships to their damage, at least we haven't shown sensitivity to that kind of human need. Don't have a sensitivity for that seems a little shortsighted. Especially since it's Lapac, for example. There isn't. But what my colleague Radin says, Rovinj already has bilingualism and already has some tradition, etc. Now that we cut it off with scissors, then people will say, "You're not good with the scissors or the canvas you're cutting." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87833	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87834	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. So, the essence of this law is this merger of the Zabok-Klanjac courts in Zagorje County, Bjelovar and Chazam in Bjelovar County, Delnice-Cabra in the Primorje-Goran County, Korenica-Donje Lapca in Ličko-Senjska, or Poreč and Rovinj in the County of Istria. Clearly, we are talking about these amendments to the Law on Areas and Seats of the P.Z. No. 674. But here's when I look at it like this from the position of the Istrian County residents, there's only one thing I can say is that this proposal is at the level of political provocation. There's simply no reason to act like this. Anyone who thinks of anything like this would not propose a bill by gentlemen. It can only be suggested by one who does not know the Istrian spaces and sometimes I also know about this payphone to say that at this point with the occupier, along with that child defender, gender equality, students, disabled people, pensioners, which I know how many we don't have should form the one for the Istrians. Does anyone finally know that one Poreč and Rovinj are in this overall economic society, that I do not list other moments of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's two cities from the circus I don't know 22, 23, 24 thousand residents. Anyone who participates in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia at this time with 6, 7, perhaps 8, perhaps even more. Mr Furio Radin spoke in a way that the Rovinji court is one of the oldest Istrian courts, hence courts on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. The Rovinj court is one of the few bilingual courts, not only in Croatia but also in Europe. Croatia has committed itself to a whole series of international conventions that oblige us not to simply question acquired rights. And as far as I am concerned, I simply cannot understand why this court would be abolished or why this court should be joined by Poreč. What kind of logic is that? Understandably, I'm afraid that after this, I don't know that I'm not insulting anyone, anyone would have thought of a suggestion. I don't know, we can't lift the slave court, and that's going to happen eventually, so we're going to renegotiate or we're going to cancel the one in Buzet or Pazin, or Labina, etc. So that's where we're going to print out that proposal that went into proposing this bill. One such arithmetic or alchemy is simply out of the question. Finally, the second thing we want is that decision at all. Look at the absurd over the absurds. I will first quote the explanation of this bill. Among other things, it is said here that, respecting all the criteria of the Ministry of Justice, he proposed, within the framework of this project, the merger of the Municipal Court in Poreč and the Rovinj Municipal Court in Rovinj. That means it was in the bill of this law. And now, on page 6, I don't know the County Court in Pula, so there's a list of what's in Bujama, Buzet, Labina, Pazina literally stands the Municipal Court in Poreč for the area of the municipalities of Kaštelir, Labinci, Sveti Lovrec, Visnjan, Vidinada, Vrsar,... Kanfanar, Zminj and the towns of Poreč and Rovinj, all simply the other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not only that, but now there are no Madam Secretary of State and newly formed municipalities of Funtana and Tarvabriga, and then it really is set up, where the elections were held two months ago, the established municipal, city councils, etc. And then the question arises who writes those laws. This morning we discussed that choice of mayors, mayors, mayors, or direct choices, the law is ridiculous, offensive to anyone who has had any experience with the functioning of local self-government and the one on the other hand offends common sense. The question arises: can we, with these proposals of the law, reform this judiciary at all? We can't. We can only argue with citizens with such suggestions. We here in these benches can argue, politicize, collect cheap political points but great benefits if these texts were adopted for no one there would be. It is logical, on the other hand, that this law proposes the establishment of a court in New Zagreb or Vis. New Zagreb, it is this whole here not far from us has certainly over 200 thousand inhabitants and it is the turn to have its municipal court. It is logical because Vis is the farthest Croatian island, the farthest from the mainland, clearly it also has its own court. But then why lift the court in Rovinj? I don't care what you're talking about in Lower Lapco, what Mr. Gaitza was talking about before me, or in Chabra, etc. I feel the same way that Mr. Gajica's arguments that have been heard of this speaker are more than credible. He says there are no people like this, so you don't need a court, you don't need a school, you don't need a kindergarten, you don't need a job, but it also makes good sense, let's give people and the court, and school, and kindergarten, and we can count on the return of the refugee population. These courts of ours, however they were, and a reflection of subjectivity, I dare say some space. The reform of the judiciary is not achieved by questioning the autonomy of any court in Chabra, Lower Lapca or Rovinj. Reforming the judiciary I think you can't know that we're starting to talk about some judges' actions. Recently, Mr Frattin was in front of the European Commission in Croatia and says our judges must not be untouchable, in one word they must not be protected as bearlike bears and cannot act on the other hand as a society of limited responsibilities. They can't be political servants either, but what's far more common at this point is not a servant of large capital. And finally, if we are to achieve justice reform, then we will not achieve the abolition of these courts but rather by reducing these notebooks and legal fees, by moving faster through the conduct of our courts, by stopping this legislative stampede. I don't know what I'd call it, or the fact that we're adopting this house annually between 350 and 4 hundred new laws, and no one at this point can handle it anymore. I can't even keep up with the MPs anymore. I can't follow the judges. I can't keep up with lawyers. I can't keep up with the notebooks. The administration can't keep up with that. The government can't keep up with that. Neither the Croatian economy nor the law school can follow. In one word, I cannot do this, nor do European bureaucrats cope more and more. And then there's the question of who we're even adding to these legal initiatives. These proposals to abolish the court in Chabra, Lower Lapca, Rovinj and so on. Someone tells the European bureaucrats. And why should they be courted? I just don't know the answer. So they will not tell us how many cities there will be in the Republic of Croatia? How many municipalities will there be? How many counties, how many ministries, how many courts will there be? I can simply propose or set some criteria for statistical regions. But I can't determine how many courts, counties, cities, municipalities, ministries and so forth I repeat in this country. If we're on the other side of that burn, it's best if we try and break up as soon as possible. Let's put Croatia on auction and let's say the state is simply not for this generation of Croatian politicians. What does this law contain? In addition to this advocacy to the European Union which knows neither Croatian tradition, nor Croatian customs, nor Croatian mentality or this Croatian territorial legality. It is my fault to speak against the European Union. I, on the other hand, have no reason to idealize them. I know that among other things Croatian citizens are against the European Union because they are against those who present them in this House in some way today. But I also know that all the countries clearly transitions that have been given opportunities, the opportunity to express themselves through the European Union today are in a better position than they were before they entered the European Union. Clearly, it's more work but it's also better to live. What does moving the seat of this court from Rovinj to Poreč mean on the other hand? It is the same as if someone, for example, were to move from Pula to, I don't know, Buzet or Zagreb, the headquarters of a cult institution in Istria of Pula "Uljanika" now. Or it's similar to what happened a year ago in this town when the tobacco factory Zagreb moved in some way to the canfanar and did not list similar examples. I suppose, but again, who guarantees us at this time that Rovinjegi will not handle the legacy cases in Poreč but will continue to solve all this in Rovinj but if nothing is changed by this legal proposal other than the tables in the hunting court and if nothing changes except that the seat of the President of one court, the one in Rovinj, then this legislative proposal is about saving when it comes to that court in Rovinj about the circus of two, three, maybe five thousand kunas but no more. A month times 12 maybe 50,000 kuna. And then the question really arises why does this political provocation need? All in all, this legal proposal for us at the IDS Club just doesn't make sense. Unfortunately, our judges are increasingly dependent on capital. Many NGOs and journalists are far more than politicians. Which is true, far more than the politicians sitting in this House. Not to talk about examples and how it looks in practice. And how certain TV shows are being fabricated. And maybe, for all that, some courts should be abolished for one day. Change everything and the second day form them again with some new people. I repeat, our judges are in many courts, not all, dependent. I think they should finally present property cards to the public, and some rulings should be negotiated. For example, I don't know how, for example, the Zagreb Bank was obliged to pay 150 million kuna once, and from, and then, in the desert process, this money was no less than left to the boys of the Principality. And we're not supposed to talk about it all of a sudden. That's not how it's gonna work. But we must, we must also speak in other categories dealing with people who today represent or represent that Croatian policy. When we talk about these courts, Rovinj and so on, I don't think as Mr. Vice President Arlovic that he's an up-to-date court. I could talk about some judgments and tourist land. I won't. Which companies were all assigned and so on. But no matter what, I think that court must absolutely survive. For the end, this proposal is not a reform. For the third time, I'm going to say this is a political provocation. Croatia needs judicial reform but not in a way that this reform offends common sense. And you finally understand the citizens of the hunting industry, Rovinj is humiliated by such a legal proposal and therefore Madam Secretary of State, so let your Ministry give up on this. I agree, once again I'll say, maybe the Rovinj court isn't up-to-date, but it can be resolved by appointing two new judges, not by abolishing the court, although few in Istria on the other hand want to work in the state services. All in all, give up this proposal, but also don't remove any courts in the Ministry in Chabra, Chazmi, Klanjc or Lower Lapca. And I think that in the end these amendments will be accepted in front of the MPs by the Ministry itself. That we will not vote here because I repeat this Law may be a confirmation before the European Union about some judicial reform but in essence such a legislative proposal is a great pity for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87835	My colleagues and colleagues, I know you will agree with me, but I think that regardless of our political commitment or religious commitment, this speaker is not the place to call God's name in the debate. And that's why I'm asking you not to do this to your future colleague Cain. Because we're simply a layman's state. Then we leave faith and religious symbols and the most holy spirit outside the assembly. Let us not appeal to God for argument to confirm your position or to say in vain. And if we're talking about nothing, then it's one of the Ten Commandments of God. But then it is not my place to talk about it, but it is mine to warn fellow MPs that we should behave properly in this place where we are. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87836	Well, here's a little correction. It is not true that the European Union is suggesting to us how many courts we will have. She's just saying that, but no one's forcing us as many courts as we're going to have, or judges. Unfortunately, our biggest problem is that we still have a huge number of objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87837	Thank you very much. My colleague Marinović, you shouldn't have sat down. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. When we received these two proposals, we at the SDP Club might think that we were not well aware of the situation in the judiciary, that the ballad with the reform is at its end, so there is order and restrictions, that is, the rationalization of the courts, the network of courts. This is something that in all reforms and previously was imagined as necessary. But when all the other problems are solved, and this is how the problems are left, few of them have been solved, many have been multipled, and we have got this law that must, which wants to figure out as a reform of the judiciary through the replacement tables on the buildings of some municipal and criminal courts. And I think that's underestimation, as fellow Cain said, that this is one underestimation of citizens, a bill of law for naives. And what does this accomplish? Instead of dealing with real fundamental problems we're dealing with here by measuring the mileage between individual courts and distances, instead of measuring and now we can do it for miles behind. A few years ago, every four-member family had one of its own unsettled items in one of the courts in the Republic of Croatia. Today, it is every three-member family and we could deal with it rather than here to measure kilometers of whether a court is more distant than the ministry allows. I'm saying, this makes sense, but not in such a controversial way, but then in a serious comparison, but only when the problems are solved, when almost every court is up-to-date and when it's seen exactly that some courts don't have an inflow at all, and then they don't make sense of their existence. But even then it's going to make some sense, some courts that are particularly distant, some that's something that's kind of a feature of that neighborhood, but that's going to be exceptions. So now we come from one extreme to another extreme. In the 1990s, there was the principle of “under every tree one court” so that today we have some courts that have been established by law, and no one has yet abolished them because they have not started to work and they will never, and that is a good thing that they will not. But this paper was first to be solved on paper, not by those who have been stalking themselves as much as they have and who, by applying the law to this government, that as one measure which has often been a figure of fundamental measure, this law was prepared during the former government but does not matter at all. One small wheel, an auxiliary tool in this reform, to allow smaller courts to accept cases from burdened courts regardless of that regular jurisdiction, or local jurisdiction. And it's often used here as a big and big step forward. It's a small aid, but it also makes it impossible for you to act because you're terminating some courts here now. To remind ourselves of the law of the end of 2005 when it is against other laws, against the meaning of our legislation and against the Constitution given power to the minister to establish or abolish courts. Do you remember the law when we joined together, we made such a decision that the minister could join the courts of different kinds. A special court such as criminal courts and commercial courts in our legislation, and by that law we gave power to the minister responsible, or minister, to bring together courts of different types of criminal and municipal. With the big pomp media it was announced, the great twins program of Finland seems to me that will also give donations. So these countries are competing who's going to donate it for some idea of their own. We must see and come up with what is needed and what is right for us, and this is how the great anti-law programme, illegal and anti-constitutional, was decided on the basis of one of these powers, and the minister made a decision where she brought together several violations and municipal courts, starting with Benkovec and beyond. And what happened. But I must immediately point out that the same way as the pompous announcement of this great program has been quietly announced, it has also been announced that it has stopped because it has not given the expected results. So what did you think the results would be? But I wish it hadn't yielded results! It has given a great alarm and alarm because in the Republic of Croatia, misdemeanor courts are now on trial in the Republic of Croatia. We're changing the Law of Infractions, changing a lot of the new Law of Infractions that is good. But you see, these joined-up courts in violation of some will be tried by a municipal court who will then be able to challenge the jurisdiction of the higher court by appeal, the County Court, later perhaps the Supreme Court. So who's going to solve, by appeal, who's going to be in charge of whether the High Violent Court, whether the County Court is higher than that District Court. Is that what you've been thinking about? Nothing! Nor has the High Violent Court been informed that he has been joined by several municipalities, that several misdemeanor courts have merged with the municipal court. So you have to correct this situation because it may be human error, but to endure one mistake can only be made from one mistake to another. And now it's stopped. These several misdemeanors joined the pears and the apples joined together. We got these dishes that are practically really weird beaks. But the repercussions are difficult for both parties and judges who don't know what they're going to do. But we're also that way the minister indirectly named the judge of the criminal court as the judge of the municipal court, and only the DSV can do that. You haven't thought about it at all. Or it is, but Finland because you were more fascinated by Finland itself. Well, you see, that's why it needs to be fixed. We suggested it, the SDP proposed an amendment to this Law on Courts, but it was, our legal proposal was rejected. Now we should really wait for the Constitutional Court's reaction to save what's to be saved even more. On this issue, however, it has now come to the conclusion that a misdemeanor and misdemeanor, municipal and municipal court are being joined. It is argued that these are courts that are not so burdened and that they connect with... court, or court, which is the closest but larger court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what does this also accomplish? That in all these courts, the term of office of the presidents of the courts was suspended before the ordinary term of office. I won't doubt that. We at the SDP club do not raise such doubts, such a kind and nature, but in public it can cause one suspicion whether you wanted to get rid of these appointed presidents in one way, as many of them as there are before the end of their term and regardless of the legal conditions, simply by passing such a law. What's the emergency for a law like this to be passed by an emergency procedure, these two? It's not clear to anyone alive. What is this going to mean for both court and court to improve? He won't do anything. They'll stay in place even, they'll only change the board, the board, the signpost. And that is why it is not quite true when you say that in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law, they do not need any means, or that they are secured but in the budget. It'll take five hundred kuna, 300 to 500 kuna for each court. And that's going to be the cost, the useless cost of a bill like this, I say, which, here, has had before the end of your term, for all the public, to figure out as a major reform of the judiciary by replacing the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87839	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, dear colleague Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87840	The National Minorities Club does not have much to add to what is said, especially what some MPs have said about the need to preserve, to preserve courts that actually practice bilingualism. We can also thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Mati Arlovic and Mr. Cain and all those from the parties, from the majority people who spoke for the sake of the preservation of one court which is one of the few courts where as many, and there I would like to lower the ball a little, as much benefits of bilingualism, as much as the discussion is taking place and in its work benefits except the Croatian language, one other language, in this case the Italian language. Other bilingual courts, partial bilingual courts except Rovinj, and there is no Buj. Although it should be nominally also courts in Pula and in many other places in Istria. But such discussions are simply not being conducted. You see the reform, so many words of reform have been spent, came here the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Frattini, to remind us that we have to implement and start to actually reform the judiciary. And then the first steps in the reform of the judiciary actually result in a bilingual court being abolished and a court being abolished in a municipality where in most Serbs out of five courts are being abolished. If this is the spirit of reform, if this is at all the beginning of the reform, then I cannot say anything but it reminds us of a few years ago when we are discussing that civil society must be introduced in Croatia and that all must be the same and that nationality should not be exceeded on other elements of nationality on other elements should not be exceeded on other elements. All we remembered then was to try to eliminate the constitutional law of the seat of the national minorities and put them in a nice circle, put them in the mechanism of parties. It was the first step in the great process that never began, is that, that this society is practically becoming a society, civil society, the society of all citizens. The reform on bilingual debates and in general on the use of bilingualism in courts has barely begun. What we have today is the remains of the past. And such remains from the past instead of expanding it, which would be a spirit, for example. contracts, agreements between Croatia and Italy where bilingualism must be extended and rights extended in this case Italian minorities from where they are best expressed to the rest of the territory we actually find a solution to narrow it down and to abolish the autonomy of one of the two courts that operate partially in Croatian and Italian. I won't, I don't want to wonder at all why there are no courts in Croatia operating in other languages of national minorities. I won't even ask myself that because it's science fiction. But what little has it is the rest of the past that somehow saved itself because we kept it with our nails. Here's what we're not gonna give right now. And we Istra MPs have given the amendment and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities supported such an amendment, and we expect that some other representatives from Istria are giving an amendment so that on Friday we can finally decide that this little remains as I say before, from the tradition that it is not abolished, and we will start to talk about reform in a future that I believe is still in my opinion and in the opinion of the National Minorities Club is still uncertain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87841	Thank you very much, dear colleague Radin. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, respected colleague Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Okay. rationalization is a key word, rationalizing all living things obviously. Apparently, there's no money missing, and there's no good organization. The rationalization is looking for Europe, everyone else is looking for it. Rationalization is very popular. But the question is whether what is proposed here by this law is actually rationalization. So what's the rationalization? The fundamental purpose of these institutions should be rationalised. The fundamental purpose of the courts is the availability of justice to all citizens, the protection of human rights, and has in particular in small areas such as those where courts are abolished, one element of preservation and giving urban character to the environment is abolished. In such circumstances, it is simply proportionate to prove that something is not needed. No need for college, no young people to study. He doesn't need schools, so there's no other people going to school. She doesn't need hospitals, she's irrational for God's sake, so few patients have better to die in peace because she won't have any money to get to some big hospital in a big city anyway. It's easy to shut down, it's hard to start, it's hard to make a city out of Palanca. Now that it is trying to do so in some places in Croatia and with courts among other things, there comes a famous rationalization and we are finely rationalizing it by cutting off the smallest and the weakest. The criteria of that cutting were established. The criteria are geography. Geography and that air distance between one court and another, they must be less than a few kilometers away, it seems to me it's 50th, and no one wonders if there are roads, if there are railways, if there can be travel between these places. Will people actually be able to get their chance and their right to do justice, to exercise their human right, to get that chance at all? The second criterion is the number of judges, and why is the number of judges small in those courts being abolished? Well, because there's no money to hire more judges. There are other criteria, the number of items that say most rationally that everything would be settled from this and that of the Sava coast here at 20km between Zapresic and Gorica, everything would be on the pile, all the criteria would be met and the whole of Croatia would be there. It is not enough that today one third of Croatia is here, I guess the whole of Croatia should be there. Well, the government has an attitude. It's the government's position that the government has said and should respect it as such. I'm a little upset that the show of the board was made, so I see from the amendment that came to us on the bench of the missed municipality of Lopar which was founded in 2006, some municipalities in Istria were missed which were founded a year or two ago. The municipality of Kamena, not mentioned anywhere, or whose jurisdiction it does not belong to, has been missed in Karlovac County. I don't know what it means that these people can't appear in court or that the proposer of this law simply took the old text, turned it over to the copy-pass system and got this bill. It's possible that both, I suppose, this other system was in action. What worries me and what we do, which is actually offensive. It could be heard from the presentation of his colleague Bošnjakovic. What happens now where these courts are rationalized? It's nothing. Nothing. The courts will stay where they are, the judges will judge where they are, the plate at the door will change. The law was then to be called the lettering law, not the Law on the Change of Courts. Nothing's gonna change. It is not possible for Europe to react to the challenge of rationalising the judiciary in addition to all the scandals that we have had in the past few years in the judiciary, so we are reacting by poor copying to offer a law under which nothing will happen. Well, I don't know why vote on it at all, and I'm not really sure how anyone can vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87843	Thank you, dear colleague. A colleague of Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club. Here you go, Comrade Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Croatian Peasant Party club agrees with Madam Secretary of State when she said it was two small laws, that's absolutely correct. However, the Croatian Peasant Party club disagrees that it is a major reform. This really is not a reform nor can it be taken under the name of reform. On the other hand, of course it is necessary to answer the question of what the Croatian Peasant Party thinks is necessary in Croatia, is judicial reform necessary? Yes, it is, and the reform of the judiciary and the judicial authorities in Croatia is very much needed and it is not a simple job, it is not an easy job and it is a job that certainly requires a consensus of all political options so that a comprehensive reform can indeed be made that will certainly not be easy, it will not be pleasant and it will be very painful. This reform of the judiciary and the judicial authority, it must go far deeper than the abolition or merger of five courts, this reform of the judicial authority and the judiciary must include both the way and the system of appointment of judges and the system of responsibility and the resolution of judges and all others, and that segment to which the Ombudsman referred in his 2005 report when he claimed that the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia was not independent. That's terrible. The judicial authority, the judiciary in every country and the Republic of Croatia must be very independent, however, the Ombudsman, referring to the actions he has conducted, to evidence that this judicial authority which should be a guarantee of legal certainty to every citizen is not independent and is an independent and she is a public defender who has said what she is addicted to. Depending on the capital from the criminal mile. This is terrible, and that is where we should imagine ourselves and it is a priority in which we can, through the reform, eradicate exactly and this dependence of the judicial authority because the dependence of the judicial authority provides insecurity for citizens, gives legal uncertainty to legal persons, provides the functioning of the rule of law, and failure to function in the rule of law is certainly a fundamental obstacle not only to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, but to economic development as assumptions of every citizen's better life. Furthermore, although it is small laws that are not reform laws, but which have great consequences, if anything but the anxiety and feeling of the humiliation of the citizens, the area of those courts that connect with other courts does not have any elements that the process of passing those laws would be urgent. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament regulates that it is possible to pass laws by emergency procedure, however, there is no such thing. It is further explained that in fact this rationalisation of the courts, how the rationalisation of the courts was approached at the request of the European Union. Whether the European Union requires the rationalisation of courts. It is likely that this rationalisation of courts had to take place only after the comprehensive reform was completed because it is difficult to believe that the European Union requires the rationalisation of courts before, for example, reforms that would ensure the independence and functioning of the judicial authority, and in order to provide legal certainty to both legal persons and natural persons. On the other hand, what is more important, which is more important in that part, we do not engage in reform, but we are engaged in reforming such small but disturbing things just so that we can say that Croatia has acted at the request of the European Union and that we have implemented the reform. This Proposal for a Law on Areas and Courts of Justice proposes, among other things, that the Court of Justice in Chazma be joined with the Municipality Court of Bjelovar on the basis of criteria as presented today during the debate, that is 50 kilometers away and that is the number of judges. Whether we need the criteria of the court's rationalisation of the courts and the number of judges, or perhaps we need some other criteria, so the Croatian Peasant Party says it represents the views on the need for reform, among other things, and the rationalisation of the courts, but that rationalisation of the courts must be on a completely different basis, and indeed it must be justified, not as difficult for us to understand or completely incomprehensible as in the case of the merger of the Community Court of Justice in Chazma, because the Community Court of Justice in Chazma has a long tradition, the city of Chazma itself records 781 years of existence, and the Court itself has 800 years of continuity of the case in Chazmi has 800 years. But of course it is not necessary to rely solely on this historical element, it is also necessary to look at how many people there are, but what is more important is the question of how many cases are being handled in the Cazma Municipal Court, so allow me. According to me, the municipal court in Chazma received a thousand 928 cases in 2004, and a thousand 560 cases were resolved. In Croatia's understanding of the urgency of the courts, we could argue that this is one of the more up-to-date courts. In 2005, two thousand 519 cases were received, and two thousand 863 cases were solved, saying they solved the cases of the previous year and me as a lawyer who spent his entire working life working with courts, and I must say that I am removing a cap from a court that manages to solve all cases in a year. In 2006, 2,000 269 cases were received, and 2 thousand 374 cases were solved, so there are 287 cases pending in that court today. Now I really don't get it. The number of cases is considerable, the update is congratulating, it's really unclear to us for which reasons and for which reason the Community Court of Justice is being joined in Chazma. If we promote the role of this court from a point of view which is particularly interesting to us, and this is the aspect of the implementation of land policy in accordance with the Law on the availability of agricultural land and when we find that in the area of the Ottoman Municipal Court, this Law is the most successful one, then we ask ourselves whether this is a punishment for the Chazman court and for the period of urgency, for the urgency of the settlement of the case, for the urgency of the implementation of land policy in accordance with the Law on the availability of agricultural land and the criteria and criteria for the availability of agricultural land. So I think every country should be very interested in this, so the courts as one of the pillars that ensure the functioning of the rule of law are really up-to-date and really commended. So in Croatia, we say to the peasant party that the reforms, we in the Croatian peasant party, say that the rationalisation of the courts, but that rationalisation must be on some other criteria, it must be the finality of one systematic reform of the judicial authority because only then will we fast, hopefully, all of us unanimously set a goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87845	Thank you, colleague Lalic. On behalf of PGS, SBH and Međimurje Democratic Party counterpart Nikola Ivanis. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to say the opinion of the Regional Party Club regarding the proposed solutions stemming from this Law on the streamlining of courts. We agree with the assessment given in the debate that the judiciary is the cornerstone of the rule of law and that it is certain that there are a lot of objections on the issue of the functioning of the judiciary, especially those with which we are negotiating our entry into the European Union. However, we believe that the issue of the assessment is that 266 courts are subject to a relatively arbitrary assessment. Maybe it's a lot, and you could say it like this, maybe it's not much. Also, the assessment that we have a lot of judges, it could also be said that we may have a lot, and maybe by some indicators we don't have many. ... The fact is, we have a lot of unsolved cases and we need judicial reform and better functioning of the rule of law, but we can't say and we don't think it's true that the spectacular result is that instead of a million and a half unsolved cases we have a million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a good thing it's reduced. But that's not what we need. And exactly the data on a million unsolved cases suggests that the jobs that should have been done in recent years have not been done. Rationalization, optimalization of the number of courts will raise efficiency. This is what the applicant is building on to propose and explain the proposal. However, no arguments have been made for this. The arguments that this rationalization will be more efficient are just as strong as the arguments that this rationalization efficiency will be less. There's even a lot of logic that can be considered smaller. Therefore, I think that we should discuss both in the public and in this Parliament what everything else seems to change relations in the judiciary. What about the internal organization, what about everything that needs to be done to make the expertise rise? What about the system of choice of judges, the re-election system of judges? How much do you respect the criteria? What about responsibility? And what is ultimately with all the measures that need to raise the level of moral ethical criteria in working in our courts? I think it's reform and it's the things we need to do. And that plus or minus five or ten courts is something that won't change important relations in the judiciary. When it comes to these several courts being abolished, I would say on behalf of the Regional Party Club that it is a further contribution to the overall centralisation of the Croatian state. Of course we can drag all Croatian institutions from the periphery, I mean state institutions from the periphery and from small municipalities to regional centres, and then drag them from regional centres to the City of Zagreb. But in this way we indirectly contribute to the death of life on the Croatian periphery. We in the regional parties are against it. I'll tell you one very simple, there's been a lot of talk here about Rovinj. I agree with what's been said. I do not want to repeat the characteristics of this court, nor the bilingualism, nor that it will surely be understood or that it is surely understood as a kind of provocation. And I'm going to say something about a court that no one has mentioned. About the court in Chabra. You know what the Chabar Valley looks like. When you turn left on the top of the deer, then into the cold waters, and into the Black Lug, and into Gerovo, to the end of the world. So all Croatian state institutions that have representation can leave Chabra. That's what's finally gonna happen. But then the question arises, how will this space ensure that it is seen as an equal and equal, equally important part of the Croatian state? Not at all. That's why they draw tickets to Buje in Slovenia. So tomorrow they'll draw tickets to Presid in Slovenia, you know. In that area near the Chabra is a village called Croatia. And when you come to Croatia from the direction of Delnice through the Kupska Valley you must still go to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to come to that village. And now, in that area, we, one of the nearest centers, are abolishing the court that covers it. So we can shut it down, we can end ourselves in the end. But we don't think that's the answer. I would end the debate with a question to you and I would ask you if you could answer me, at least about. How many unsolved cases are in these 40 courts that are listed as courts where one judge, two, and three, so in eight courts we have one judge, in 16 two and in 16 three. That's 40 barrels. How many unsolved cases are there in these courts? Or maybe there are unsolved cases where we attach these dishes. And another thing that would be just as good to hear, which is, we've heard of Chazu, we've heard of Rovinj... as it stands also with these unsolved courts, these which we will attach to others, for a very simple reason, because one cannot take away the impression that it was made to do something in the judiciary, that it might seem something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not to get into solving essential problems. So I think we're absolutely against it. Of course he's not here. There's been a lot of talk about the lab. Similar arguments could be made about that unfortunate Lower Lapec somewhere in the end of the world. I think he needs the Municipal Court and that the Croatian state should manifest its existence in the Lower Lapco by requiring the Municipal Court of the Republic of Croatia. And you don't need to move him away from that periphery that barely anyone comes to. Here, and that's why we don't support this. We think this law would be the most beautiful thing to do to pull out of the process, and the reform of the judiciary starts to materially happen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87847	Thank you very much, Nikola. The word is Mrs. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After the club representatives allow me to look at at least partially at a part of what's been said here. Carefully listening to the debate so far on this text of the law and it seems to me that there are more reasons for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to question the rationalisation of the judicial system to approach gradually what it does to these proposals of the law. What does it look like to these bill proposals if I can use the metaphor that the esteemed representative of Gajica used said we have the canvas. So if we imagine Croatia as a canvas we didn't actually take scissors, it seems to me that we took a needle and thread and connected certain vessels. However, what is important and what should be done here again seems to me to be highlighted and I did not do so in the opening statement or say that in the overall reform of the judiciary, only these two laws that bring together a very small number of courts do not stop the revolution in the implementation of the judicial reform. No one can say this responsibly, and I can't really say it from this pay phone. And if we're going to stay on that comparison, if we're talking about a big rock rolling this might be a little pebble that helps that rock roll further. The question has been raised or the question has not been raised, it is our commitment to judicial reform that. Anyone who implements something can ask themselves how to approach it and what priorities some segments of judicial reform begin. Here was the assessment that we should do everything in Croatia, in the first place reduce the number of pending cases and length of the proceedings and then approach the rationalization of our judicial network. With all due respect to the arguments because we can always have such and such arguments in the debate, in the implementation of the judicial reform, we are actually increasingly showing that it would be better if the future optimal picture of our judicial system had already been more arranged so that the implementation of the judicial reform would ultimately be easier. I am saying this because the number of courts ultimately determines the number of judges and the number of judges depends primarily on the inflow of cases, given the number of residents in a given area, which is then reflected in the framework criteria for the work of judges. And when we talk here about the number of judges and here there were suggestions to increase the number, to name the new judges. Dear ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must say that as part of the implementation of the judicial reform, it seems to me that our answer does not lie in the appointment of new judges when it is necessary and when there is indeed a smaller number. However, the analysis of the work as part of the overall reform we are carrying out shows that in Croatia the total number of judges is enough, and even by taking this number of unsolved numbers, which indeed when we say despite the great progress we have made, we have reduced the number from a million and 600 unsolved cases to a million cases. He still screams, and the citizens complain justly. This number of cases and the present number of approximately 935 cases could be solved but we are talking about a situation where the debates of judges in the courts for which they are appointed are not good, so that the total picture of the courts and the number of judges, so the judges who are in these courts, we have a great proportion, a great difference where some courts cannot, given the great inflow of the case, resist, resist this inflow of cases and resolve them with the existing number. And on the other hand, within a relatively small distance of only 20, 30 kilometers, we have a court that has three judges, and according to the framework criteria, more. And since we have already touched the framework criteria of the framework criteria now as they are before the adoption doesn't give us an answer to the question when the judge has even solved the norm according to the framework standards of his writings, what kind of cases he has dealt with. This is where, in particular, all the litigation cases and the simplest ones are expressed, not to mention the way he solved it and whether he solved it with a metric judgment or otherwise resolved it in another way, for example, by a verdict due to the absence of a decision, etc. I am saying this because we from this pay phone when we talk about some other reform procedures justifiably often stressing the independence of the judicial authorities and the independence and independence of the judges and calling for responsibility. Responsibilities primarily refer not to the trial of course but to the results of the work of judges who must certainly be considered in this way. Therefore, in all of this rationalisation has its total and great justification and reason to allow for a more appropriate and even schedule of burdens on judges according to the jurisdiction of the court they cover. We had certain measures to contribute to this, and this was also spoken during the debate on this bill as a reference of cases from more burdensome courts to less. It is the same measure that is welcome but it cannot systematically resolve our needs, nor can we solve it systematically and permanently by moving judges from individual courts from loaded courts to less-loaded courts. By amending the law, I just remind you, the recent amendments to the Law on Courts prescribed that it could be done up to 50 kilometers away without the judge's consent, so it was something that caused the debate. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid it's our opinion that the simple answer is not the appointment of new judges. This shows, for example, the example of the very often mentioned court of the proposal that the Municipality Court of Rovinj joins at the Municipal Court in Poreč because, for example, the Municipality Court of Rovinj actually has four judges and the inflow of the case is sufficient for the three works of the judge and this inflow of the case according to... framework criteria without this structural analysis of the type of items they solve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] True, that court records a shift. But I mean, when we're looking and talking about rationalization, we really have to, and it's a really good argument to respect all these segments that we're talking about. So when we talk about objective criteria or criteria that we will implement when joining judges, they must indeed be objective and must be well explained. Why? It is a question often mentioned in public, mentioned several times here and will always be a question of why this court and we are taking into account perhaps some, of course, specificities about the number of people, the inflow of objects, the framework criteria and the distance of geographically respecting specificities. But these additional criteria have been developed and they are present, they are taken care of. They take care of the total number of cases, of the total number of cases solved, of the structure of these resolved cases, of the manner in which the cases are solved, of the expected inflow of the case. Therefore, these are all segments that have been taken into account and will have to be taken into account in the future rationalisation of courts. So I'm stressing and saying that this example and only the merger of these five courts, we see how much debate has caused us to need to move gradually and differently, and so it's not true that nothing is going to happen, that it's just going to change the board. We will allow courts that simply showed that they cannot function according to a small number of inhabitants, to a small inflow of cases, to truly geographical underdevelopment do not have their justification for existence. Of course, we're all tied to the courts. The courts have already said the evidence themselves, and it has been said here many times, proof of the presence and state and certain urban achievements and all that. However, the existence of the sea courts, we will not like it economically. Thus, the existence of courts must also be monitored by the number of population and economic operators present there. Thus, the need for a court to act there and to explain its existence to objective standards. Therefore, starting from these criteria, this law, and within this limited scope, does not really constitute any political provocation. Nor is it against common sense. Respecting all arguments for and against him was done on the logic of numbers that show that indeed some courts should be abolished. I'm going to try to show it on this example. And the honourable representative... he begged it in his presentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An example of the Municipal Court in Klanjc suggests a merger at the Municipal Court in Zabok. The municipal court in Klanjc is a small court that has... Cases of, which, I apologize for, of the hundred and forty-three criminal cases, one hundred forty litigation cases, and that is according to the framework criteria enough for the work of one judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 270 cases are indicative criteria and two judges work in court. The court's distance from the Klanjc court is 22 kilometers. So this is, which is an extremely burdensome court of six judges and will in fact allow for more evenly solving cases in Zabok to remove its backlog in work and impunity and, on the other hand, we believe that, given the small distance and the number of cases, it will not endanger the right to access to the court for citizens living in the municipality, in the municipality, of the Klanjec Municipal Court. The second example is the Cazma Municipal Court at the Belovar Municipal Court. Honorable representative Lalic said is that punishment for that court? I wouldn't look at it like that and I mean it. It can be said before that it is actually a recognition of the quality of work there of judges and their urgency. Because the municipal court in Chazma has a 251 pending case at the moment. He solved a number of cases but in the structure of the case he has 1300 executives. The lawsuit's about 250, 300. He has framework standards, it takes two judges and employs three judges. On the other hand, we have a municipal court in Bjelovar only 18 kilometers away that faces a large reception of the case and a large number of pending cases so that many reasons suggest that these two courts are joined together. Or an example of the Municipal Court of Lower Lapac at the Municipality Court of Korenica. Unfortunately, the municipality court in Lower Lapac has no judge in employment, and for the case, a judge from the Municipal Court in Korenica comes to execute these cases. It is 40 kilometers away but the fact is also that the court has a total of 220 cases a year. He has no norm for any judge. And with all due respect, the need to revive that environment. Still, it's not the courts that need to revive the environment. The Court must follow the logic of progress and the environment and the employment of the economic rise of these areas. Or, for example, the Municipality Court of Chabra at the Municipal Court of Delnica, the Municipal Court of Chabra does not have one either, there is no judge. The President of the Court of Justice from Delnice is coming there to handle cases. This example may indicate and give the impression that only the courts where there are no judges have joined together. And that was partly the reason. To start rationalising the reform in this segment as painlessly as possible. On the other hand, the debate shows that where we have a number of judges, so where the larger environment is itself, as is the example of the District Court in Rovinj... The Porec municipal court will always cause more tension and more tension because more cases and more judges are present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, when I touched the Municipal Court in Rovinj and the Municipal Court in Poreč, only the merger of these courts does not mean that bilingualism will be abolished in a joined court. The bilingualism is, of course, followed by that court in which the existing court is joined. And in conclusion, based on everything I've just said, there's no reason why we're proposing this rationalization and I'm saying why we're starting this reduction in the number of courts in this... the law by requiring Europe to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's true that it's one of the conditions for access. But the reasons are actually better efficiency for the work of judges in courts, so the reasons that show that we do not have, despite such a large number of courts, an efficient system requires us to do something. One of the segments we can achieve is irrationalization. And we are not incriminating to the various experts who are coming to the projects. We have shown this by example when we may have made a mistake in joining criminal courts and municipal courts, but that is why we went with pilots so as not to take lightly some of the suggestions that we considered and which we did not seem to represent an optimal solution in our terms. And so with this due caution and attention we begin the process of rationalization by joining these existing courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87849	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87850	So it is incorrect that indicative measurements are also calculated and the number of judges per population is by the number of cases. And it is truly strange that we compare ourselves with countries of similar size and population as many as there are number of courts. No one's saying how many cases we have. So the cases won't arise if we put the courts together and delete them, and we cancel the courts. There'll be objects left. We can't destroy them if they don't get rid of them. But it's true what Mrs. Secretary says isn't just going to change the board. The truth is it will change and the seal will change. And we know that in 1945 the great famine was, so the National Committee of the Upper Brela asked for the District Committee subject... The seal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here it is, looking for a seal for those reasons. Here you are looking for a seal really for different reasons but almost, almost the same essentially.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87851	... There's a question that they might not be looking for a mouse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, the esteemed colleague, Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87852	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and state secretary and colleague from the government. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts for the present time is totally unacceptable. Today I speak here as a representative of the Croatian Parliament and a member of the Italian community. We're not anymore, and I hope we're not going back to the '50s and '60s when schools in Italian were cut out that happened in Labin, where I came from. The Italians are in Istria an indigenous people. They've been in Istria forever. The Italian language tradition in Istria must continue, and therefore, the Municipality court in Rovinj must remain a bilingual court in which it is applied equally with the Croatian language and the Italian language and must remain so. And as MP Furio Radin said, because of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Italy and because of constitutional obligations towards the Italian national minority, but also because of life in Istria. This proposal discusses the strategy for judicial reform under the CARDS project. Dear Secretary of State, this is not a strategy for judicial reform. The strategy of judicial reform will be when it is effective to deal with pending cases in courts, and that is fundamentally what we need to talk about today, not the mergers of courts in this case specifically when I speak between Rovinj and Poreč. So we can speak and in a way that the courts that have one judge or two judges are not effective. The question is whether they're effective or not. It depends on which part of the country they are located and how they are like such a state institution and what they represent on the ground. The Rovinj municipal court has the longest tradition of existence in Istria for nearly 2 centuries. A historical demonstration of the beginning of the development of the judicial authority in Istria confirms that the Rovinjian court was the first city and earthly court, i.e. First court in Istria. During the entire Austrian period Rovinj was the most important destiny in Istria, and in 1869, in the Austrian province of Primorje, Rovinj was the only one with Trieste as a direct city of the empire to get a merger of its specificity and importance of the Statute of the Autonomous City with a special statute. The municipality court in Rovinj is, as I said, the only bilingual court with equal application of the Italian national minority which represents an indigenous and important factor in this area. The municipality court in Rovinj is also responsible for the municipality of Bala, Kanfanar and Zminj, which together with the town of Rovinj includes more than 21,000 inhabitants. So, we have to talk and I agree that we need to talk about reforms and I agree that we need to talk about judicial reform. However, the strategy for judicial reform should be sought in solutions to pending court cases, and that is only true and that is the only way we will show ourselves in the European Union as a member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87853	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's time for my dear colleague, Radosh. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Dear colleague of Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here, just a few words. I am the first among the representatives here to be in favour of reforming the justice system in Croatia because the judiciary in Croatia is the cancer of the early Croatian society, so whatever you think of it and no matter how quiet we are about it. The perception of the public is so and with complete right and justification. The ineffectiveness of the judicial system, the longevity of the procedure, the outdated and all that goes with it. In addition, the opinion study also discusses the corruption of the judiciary, mistrust in terms of the existence of corruption in the first place is the judiciary. As you know in the second place, health care, third political parties, etc. Therefore, I am the last of those to oppose any possible and comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the Croatian judicial system. After all, Croatia is the country with the highest number of judges in Europe and with the highest number of courts. By employees in the judicial system we are at the top, and at the same time we are with the largest number of unsolved cases in Europe. Therefore, a non-sensual one who can't get away with anything and justify it. And I'd be in favour, certainly, of a full and systematic reform of the justice system. However, what is offered by this bill, which is before us today, is that, as a matter of urgency, as a final draft of the law, there is no solution in terms of reforming the justice system in Croatia. In a few days, we will have a debate in this assembly and a report by the Ombudsman who, as an Ombudsman, as a representative of this House is actually talking about things that the Ombudsmans in Europe are not talking about, but primarily points to problems related to the exercise of citizens' rights in front of our courts. And now that we look at this proposal, and here I'm going to see that I'm not going to have any reform on what my colleagues from the IDS were talking about before me about joining the Municipal Court of Rovinj in the Municipal Court of Poreč. We won't achieve anything by changing the table. We're really not gonna achieve anything by changing the table. I will not repeat all the historical and other circumstances that have affected the functioning of the Rovinj court, I will not talk about the 21,000 inhabitants covered by this court in Rovinj. I won't talk about it being the only bilingual court with the Bujama court when it comes to Italian use, using Italian language. We know all that. I will not talk about the principle that one of the guides in terms of rationalising the network of courts is and traffic distance, so it is enough in Istria in Pazin to set up one court and no place in Istria is 50 km away from Pazin. Therefore, according to this analogy, we could go to the end of all courts. Here, before this point was debated and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government where it is also predicted that only those environments that have over 15% of the members of a particular nationality, and when it comes to Istria, specifically the Italian people, even if that law is adopted in the third reading as we are in Istria, I am convinced by the power of our belief always for the prince or mayor to choose members of the Italian people regardless of our commitment to that law or not because it is simply a civilizational achievement of those parts from which I come and the way of our lives. And to conclude, we representatives from Istria have submitted an amendment to this bill. It was signed by representatives of various political options. I would be unusually glad that the MPs from Istria who came from HDZ signed the amendment. I hear there might be a proposal. And if we are adopted by either a group of representatives or anyone else in the sense that there is no accession of the Municipal Court of Rovinj and the Municipal Court of Poreč, I will be too pleased and I suggest that you gentlemen of the State Secretary take a good look at the amendment that we have proposed to you and referred to you in the procedure and that you adopt it and that there be no new injustice that may have far-reaching consequences, as well as international implications, and that the Community Court of Justice in Rovinj remains with its headquarters, with its own detour and jurisdiction and not be attached to the Municipal Court in Poreč. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87855	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Antesic has.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87856	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Peru, I've replicated you in terms of the following. Namely, this final draft of the law carries a date or, to say the day of 13 April 2007, of the esteemed colleague Zdenka. And already in Article 1 on page 5 of page 5, which speaks of the Primorje-Gorski County, I do not know which, but mostly the Municipal Court in Rab, therefore the seat spoken by the Municipal Court in Rab is for the city of Rab. Meanwhile, a new unit of local self-government on the island of Rab was established a year ago, which is Lopar, the Municipality of Lopar. So according to this proposal, how high this is, how high this is, and how harmonised the legal proposal is with other laws passed by this House, it is also seen that one whole municipality is therefore missing from this final bill of law. In that sense, I've given the amendment, so I'm asking you to respect that. And next to this, I assume it's done, that the same thing happened with other municipalities and cities that were founded by the decision of last year, July.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87857	A reply to the replica, colleague of Peru? He won't. Then another replica, Comrade Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, a colleague of Peru said exactly. This isn't judicial reform. The reform of the judiciary will take place only after it is more effective in solving unresolved problems, i.e. cases, and not as it is proposed, among other things, to bring the Municipal Court of Rovinj together to the one in Poreč.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87859	Now it's my turn, and since I'm not being replaced, and I'm not allowed to speak from the chairman's office, then I have to give up the debate. So it's on behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed colleague Bosnjakovic, 5 minutes. He's gone. Could someone else be talking for five minutes on behalf of the club? And it goes into the basket. And we would like to ask the final word of the esteemed colleague, State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go. ... It's absolutely friendship and trust on the spot, with a missing application. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about reforms, we make things change. Here it is said, let me look back on it because usually when we talk about the subject of the judiciary a little bit we go beyond what we are discussing, let's say now the amendment of the Law on Headquarterss, Areas and Courts. It has been said that the judiciary is the cancer of this society's wounds. However we are not satisfied with the situation in the judiciary and should change it personally, I find that too much of a word. And why do we actually think, or can we say, that it's a cancer wound? Because it seems, it's my personal thinking, all the changes that happen in society to the judiciary. All that's been going on in the last 15 years in our society, all of us, in the end, if we're not satisfied and we often hear an evaluation here, and let the State's Attorney's Office investigate it, let the court make a decision. In this situation, in the major changes that have occurred in society, even courts may have a better position, or with minor social changes, with minor legal changes would not easily meet these requirements, on the one hand. And on the other hand, high expectations. Because we all expect the court to make a decision. Well, of course, sometimes, or often, we're not even satisfied with the court's decisions. It is certainly founded because we have two parties and because they are in court. But I think our courts are doing well despite the difficulties and the judges are mostly doing well. We need to enable them to work better. And it seems, at least partly by this law, that we create a system, we create a network of courts that will allow judges to work better, that the schedule of objects, the burden of objects among them, will ultimately mean faster solving of the case. Because then we'll already have a number of judges without appointing new ones to solve these currently pending cases. We hope then, despite this legitimate fear of changing the image in a traditional sense, to contribute to a better perception. Perception is a word often used, so I dare say abuse. But perception is something if it's repeated often, if it's present, we have to take it as a final fact. We often get the executive power at the Justice Department even, I won't say conflict, but we have various opinions and judges say so it's perception, give me one proof. We say yes, but it's going to have that perception of something, it's something that's almost over the fact that we have to face. And on the basis of this perceptions are created on the basis of a public change in what is written in the press. I'm sorry, I'm glad to actually have the opportunity to talk about this subject a little bit of a turn-off if you let me and say that a study has been conducted that unfortunately did not experience such attention to the public of our media where an independent agency has been doing a survey of those who come to court, parties and witches, lawyers, etc. where the general opinion was on the quality of the work of the court and judges about 3, 3 and a half. The citizens were 80% aware of why they were there. They were, by the time they were late, about five minutes most would have been debated, there were rare cases of something more, and they gave extremely good grades, which we were very glad to see about how judges and judicial staff treated them. That's, that's your incentive to move on. What they misjudged, though, is infrastructure. So the condition of buildings and equipment. And now we have to ask ourselves, and that's certainly justifiable. We struggle every year to get as much money as possible for the construction of courts, MPs for their environments, of course logically, lobbying and asking for more money. We have to ask ourselves if all of us would ultimately look better in the long run if we had a smaller number of courts where we would have suitable judicial buildings and equipment that would fit the needs. Of course, if it is in a smaller space, it costs less economically in the long run, and it will be more cost-effective and quality for all those who use courts, or come to court seeking justice. Just abolishing the courts doesn't mean that in some small environment that had a court, we will abolish legal aid and judicial aid because it can be introduced there, it will introduce a judgment day where judges will come and where certain cases will be dealt with there for certain days. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by respecting all the remarks that have been made today and accepting criticism for perhaps some parts that are not designed enough for your assessment, and this debate shows that it will be difficult to implement this change of the judicial network in the future, in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia again, I point out that this is just the beginning of something that is imminent. He's sick, he's tearing our ties to tradition, but he's good for the future of those we stand for, and they're citizens who come to court looking for justice. We have to ask ourselves whether a judge who judges in a small community can be so professional no matter what the judges are, educated persons that they can solve all possible files. We're looking for quality, we're looking for judge specialization. We can't do that on a small number of judges. And finally, and not least, as regards the remarks that when... By supplementing this law for the sake of and possible cremation, we did not appreciate the changes that took place in terms and names of the municipalities in the meantime. [[You don't understand.]] This law came from 94, and it covered only these changes in the jurisdiction of these municipalities and cities relating to the merger of courts under this bill. However, if we have failed to make some of the changes that are in this text of the law in this text, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a Proposer is indeed due to this failure of apologies, but we will correct this and certainly correct it through your amendments in order to meet the amendments in this section of the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87861	Thank you very much. Perhaps these amendments will be crucial to obtain a qualified majority to pass without going into the third reading. A colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87862	So the State Secretary says that all changes that are incorrect are poured into the judiciary. This is not the result of the burden on the judiciary, but rather of unsettled social relations rather than changes in society, and just as you say this is a good but painful procedure. He's sick, but he's not good. Because at this point in time, cutting the courts when they can take over the objects of other more burdensome courts is just as logical as turning the cooling on during the winter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87863	Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected colleague of Poirot's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's Mrs. Secretary of State, among other things, who said this is a suggestion that it's good for citizens. Madam Secretary of State I will tell you what the citizens of Rovinj say. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is requested to modify the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Areas and Seats of Courts in a way that the Municipality Court of Rovinj continues its work in the current headquarters, including the territory of Vale, Kanfanar, Zminj and the town of Rovinj. So you can see that this is not a good suggestion for the citizens of Rovinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87865	Thank you very much for correcting the incorrect allegations. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate on these two points. Of course, now we interrupt the session, and tomorrow we continue at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal for a law on violations, and after that, according to the intended plan of the rest of the agenda. Thank you very much. I wish you a good holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-16-0.u87866	Now we're going back to earlier. On the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts and on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, we would not now vote on any of the following times. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session with the debate - Proposal for a Law on Infringements, first reading of P.Z. No. 673 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, justice and gender equality. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state.
