ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94818	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you, by urgent procedure, to amend and supplement the Company Act as our roof law regulating the status forms and manner of business of companies in legal traffic. You know that law was passed in late '93. the years and enter into force on 1 January '95. A year. So we already have twelve years of practice in the application of this law, and in practice, of course, with the initial difficulties of applying each new legislation, it has proved to be a good law which is a good framework for the business of our legal entities. In fact, passing that law at... It was only one diet and a brief reminder of history that actually meant the reintroduction of companies into our legal systems because they existed with us from the 1875 law, so of course through, during communism and socialism itself, it was regulated by the company law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we came back to our roots by adopting, that is, a degree in force of the Commercial Society Act. This law was changed in the meantime only twice in '99. Year and year 2003. These amendments were mostly conditional on, of course, other reasons, but mainly on the fact that Croatia must gradually comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in all areas of social life, including the area of business of commercial entities, on the road to accession to the European Union as a Member State of the European Union. So most of these changes were from 2003 to 2003. Then we didn't fully comply with all the directives, with everything... The legislation of the European Union considers that we can, we have plenty of time to do so more gradually so that this proposal for a law is firstly in line with the fact that I have to point out that this proposal for a law that is now before you is in line with and with the secondary legislation adopted, the directives adopted by the European Commission or adopted by the Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, this area is extremely lively. This legal property of the directive is constantly amended. Therefore, this is an area that is changing in the Member States themselves of the European Union and Croatia on its way, and even when it becomes a Member State, it will have to implement it properly in its legislation. And maybe as a curiosity because we often talk about changing the law that it's not good and it's not good especially when it comes to procedural laws. But let's say Germany, a country that has been our role model in writing this law, as a country that has otherwise left a strong seal in the Central European countries and their legal circle where, since 2003, trade legislation has changed thirty times. How when harmonizing is such that it too would end all sorts of affairs, bankruptcys, and abuses. It is not necessary to ask for an apology or to justify the fact that this is happening with us and that the system must react to it, but only to note that even in countries to which we often call on orderly countries such abuses despite legal mechanisms are not impossible. That is why the Member States, and through their legislation, and through the legislation of the European Union, are trying to put an end to it. So that through the amendments to this law, we are further harmonising ourselves with the “acquis” – the legal property of the EU member states in this legal area. Then, to coordinate in the part where we need to prevent abuses in economic business, for example in the area of money laundering, we remove securities on the bearer in order to prevent the possibility of abuse in that legal area. Then, it should be possible to comply with this law with a previously discussed law which should allow for the management of a commercial company to be able to decide by a commercial company in its statute, so it is his choice whether it will have a monastic or idolatrous concept. So, will he have his statutes and administration and supervisory board or just the board of directors? Then the questions related to... the capital companies that have not been regulated so far and are not still governed by accounting regulations and, unfortunately, the opportunity has been used to remove some of the doaction errors or changes that the practice has shown necessary and necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is in short and important terms about amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Society proposed by this final proposal. The Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament has given 4 amendments to this text of laws which are nomotechnical in nature. The government of the Republic of Croatia will accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94819	Thank you. Legislative committees, the Committee on Justice, chairman of the board, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94820	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 58th session held on 26 September 2007, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Society with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 23 August 2007. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Croatian legislation are harmonised with the legal acquis of the European Union, in particular with regard to amendments to European law following the 2003 amendment and amendment of the law. The proposed amendments fulfil the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia to combat money laundering, give the option to choose between two different types of companies, settle issues related to the reserves of capital companies and correct editorial and other errors. The Committee on Justice unanimously decided with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94821	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94822	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, Final Proposal, i.e. one very, very important law. This Law regulates all status issues related to companies in the Republic of Croatia. We need to know that this Law together with the Law on Mandatory Relations really regulates almost all issues related to the functioning of the economy. The Law on Commercial Companies provides for the forms of commercial companies in the Republic of Croatia, in principle, the numberus Klaus, which means what is defined by the law is only possible to function in practice, there are no other forms outside this Act. Definitely the most widespread form of company in the Republic of Croatia is a limited liability society. We have stock companies, we have command companies, public companies, economic associations, individual traders. According to the Law of craftsmanship, we have craftsmen. And these are the participants doing business on our market. Therefore, this Company Act, which came when it came, was following the Company Act, which first actually opened one form of way of operating through companies on the economic market and which was relatively modest in the way that it regulated business creation issues. He left it all to the founding act. The law on companies that rely on German and Austrian traditions is indeed very detailed and has very precisely regulated everything related to the status of companies. This means from the way you start, from the headquarters, from the business, from the company, from the way you represent, from the administration, from the management of companies, from the termination, from the liquidation and all other important issues. However, once the Trade Society Act has been brought to us and, of course, brought to life with these changes that the State Secretary has made in the European Union, and even in Germany which has been in some way a model of some things have changed and, of course, we too must follow these trends, all that is happening in the European Union in this area, in this segment we must also accept and enter into our legislation. So here today it is before us the Law, the amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies that are quite extensive and it is good actually that, in the amendments themselves, it is said that a consolidated text will be issued, because it would definitely be difficult to manage after these changes in that active text in one, other amendments and now these. All these changes can be seen in several categories, according to me, which are the most crucial and most important changes in this society. These amendments to the Act on Commercial Companies are definitely deleted by those provisions which apply and which regulate the share on the bearer, in the case of a shareholder company. Stocks on the bearer is a kind of stock that is transmitted by tradition, so by physical surrender from hand to hand which is not as transparent as the stock in name. And so this is actually our contribution and meeting our obligations in one fight against money laundering. Secondly very important, I would say perhaps the most important change proposed by this Law is the introduction of a different way of managing the stock companies. So far, as we have regulated by this Act, we have been regulated to take to stock companies, that is one dualist principle, we have the main bodies or bodies of governance in a shareholder society, these are the main assembly, the supervisory board and the board of directors. According to the current definition, management is run by society. The Supervisory Board monitors the business, oversees the business and work of the company itself, checks the financial reports itself, gives the main assembly an opinion on whether the financial reports correspond to the real state of business of the company, whether they are correct, giving the main assembly an opinion in the use of profits, and such things. However, today we are introducing, today we are introducing something important new today, we are introducing what it means in the countries of the European Union, and this is a monastic way of managing a stock society. This is the thing that really seems to me to be of great interest because we see these days that many of our citizens become shareholders and are very interested in the way in which the management of the stock companies is as effective as possible, which is better so that tomorrow they can achieve a growing profit and participation in the profits that they will be entitled to, on the basis of the acquisition of shares. This monastic way of governance proposed by this Law speaks as follows. There is no longer a supervisory board that oversees the business of the company, which oversees the administration, but there is a board of directors of the company. The board of directors is a body which the law now specifys, he says runs the company. He runs the company in a way that brings those main business definitions, and that board of directors chooses the executive directors who run the company's business. So the board of directors runs the company, and the executive directors run the company's affairs. That's a big difference. Because so far, the Supervisory Boards have actually carried out only surveillance, although they also had a certain management conditionally stated management function when they agreed on legal matters that the administration had concluded, which had crossed a certain value that was set in the Statute. So this is one way of functioning of a stock company that exists in the countries of the European Union. Trade companies will now be able to decide whether to apply a dualist or monastic approach under our current law once we amend it. It is also a very important, very important thing that this Law introduces are provisions on cross-border merger and association of society. Tomorrow, when we are in the European Union, it will happen that someone of our society will join with some society that has its head office in another European Union member state, that it will connect, that we will attach someone from those Member States of the European Union. And now in this law we have regulated rules on how it will be implemented. What's also important is the Law is quite a volume, but a large part actually refers to the editorial text. And it would clean up all those mistakes that were made in previous changes now improve and now specify. Many things that were disputed in court practice, where they were dealt with for lack of regulation, so they settled in one trade court like this, in another trade court in a different way, are now very precisely regulated by law. I'll just mention it because it's always questionable when management gets legitimacy. Whether or not to be entered in the register of the competent commercial company or on the date on which the competent authority, the supervisory board shall take a decision on the appointment. There is no longer any doubt there, but the administration is legitimate when the decision is taken regardless of when it will be entered in the register of the competent commercial court. There is also one very important newspaper, and I would say that it is also very relevant with the insistence and desire of all of our citizens to become shareholders and tomorrow achieve one of those rights that the share offers, which is the right to participate in the share of profits, that is, Article 38 which says, it is relying on the current Article 223 and where paragraph 4 is added, which says: "Isn't the main assembly determined by the decision to use the day when shareholders acquire the demand for the payment of dividend determined by that decision, which must not be later than 30 days after the decision is taken, shareholders acquire according to the company of demand on the expiry of the dividend on the day when the main assembly at which the decision was taken. The acquisition by shareholders, the demand to pay dividends is separated from the shares by the exercise of the rights from which they have arisen. The decision to pay the dividend may determine the date of maturity of those claims which may not be at the end of the 30-day period since the shareholders have acquired them. If the main assembly does not determine the day of due diligence, they shall expire 30 days from the day they are earned." So it's a precise day when you get the demand to pay off you get the basis of the stock that someone has. The Croatian Democratic Community, the Croatian Democratic Community club, will support this law, we believe that it introduces legal gains of the European Union, that it significantly enriches our legal system, our status law regarding companies. We believe that this introduction of a monoistic model of governance of stock companies will be highly acceptable for many of our stakeholders, that it is more efficient and ultimately in developed countries there are good experiences related to such a way of managing stock companies. If we remember that not long ago we also passed amendments to the law on the court register where I would have said one really big step, so we made all the documents, and these documents were pressed "enter" on the computer, so the same day they were found in the register of a commercial court, when we link it to these changes, I think we actually made a very good legal infrastructure in this segment of commercial law. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94823	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94824	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Croatian Party club will not support the adoption of this law, meaning the Law on Commercial Society, because we consider this to be irresponsible behaviour of the Croatian Government. It is the law of the highest importance for the functioning of companies in the Republic of Croatia. It is a law which has 172 articles, a law which should enter into force on 1 April 2008 and means to the Government for almost four years to prepare amendments and amendments to this law, and I believe that not even most members of the government know what is in the provisions of this law regarding the resolution of all relevant issues for the functioning of the company, and the question is how many of us MPs here who are in the assembly and those who are not in the assembly have read this law and how much they can answer the questions that are relevant to the functioning of the companies in Croatia, how they are determined by the provisions of this law and how in Croatia this question will work when the law enters into force on 1 April 2008. According to the data and government, the scope of the Commercial Society Act best describes the fact that by 31 May 2007, 118 thousand 373 companies with limited liability and a thousand 741 shareholders were registered in the court register in the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the number of members of these companies, it is evident that the law directly regulates relations relating to a very large part of the population and legal persons. So it concerns a large number of people and legal persons and we're bringing it into an emergency procedure instead of doing our first reading today, in the meantime, no matter what P.Z.E. is. The regulation, in the meantime, that all those to whom this law applies, can prepare themselves, give appropriate solutions that will fix and those things that are now current in Croatia regarding the functioning of companies in order to get a law that will be applicable and that we know why we are actually voting. Because most people will eventually vote for something, and they don't even know what the law says, and it's decided on the fate of a thousand hundred, thousand 118 thousand, 118, 119 thousand companies. Therefore, it is quite unserious and especially when we have to bring it to this session, meaning the last session of the V. convocation of the Croatian Assembly. However, we will not achieve the objectives set out, which is the purpose of passing this law but will only bring something that the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament will certainly need to change, since we have not seen the simulations of all these provisions and everything else. Let us hope that these parts around the board of directors, its responsibilities and obligations are not taken as an example of the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund which is considered to be irresponsible for anything that is done, and which is positively normal, they stand behind it and in that sense are willing to say we have done so. Therefore, I propose that we do our first reading today and allow the next meeting of the Croatian Parliament to pass this law because it will have enough time since the law should enter into force in April, so we will not lose anything that we will be responsible for and will not join this part of the stampede that we have done here in the Croatian Parliament but will be responsible for this most important issue related to all issues relating to companies, status and others, so this Law together with the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is the Constitution in terms of economic business and status and other issues related to registration in the register, business and activities of the companies themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94825	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate, a respected representative of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94826	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would speak almost the same way my colleague did, namely. This is an overview of how the reform of this company law works. It was only a year and a half ago that Slovenia passed this Law but after a quality and thorough public debate which is not the case here. I would be interested in where a public debate was held about one of the most important laws for the functioning of our Croatian companies. 172 articles change, cover 118,000 333 limited-responsibility societies, and indeed all the criticisms that have already been made since the morning are absolutely in place. Why now in a hurry it's definitely a major criticism, let this law go to first reading, it concerns a number of things. It is necessary to give appropriate solutions related to the organisational structure of the Management Boards, to the equal status of executive directors in D.D. and D.O.O. It is necessary to make clear the position of the chairman of the Board's board and the Chief Executive Director, to define clear salaries and remunerations and rewards for members of the Management Boards, management contracts and liability insurance for non-executed directors. These are all issues concerning both legal relations and working legal relations and organisational, and in particular the consequences of operational management and supervision of business, proposed by this Commercial Society Act. And therefore, I will be very brief to think that this should be a first reading, a thorough discussion between the first and second readings, a public debate to make and include as many participants as possible, and then to get a quality law rather than to pass the law quickly just enough to fulfill the form in front of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94827	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94828	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues is exactly this proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society attests to a dynamic development of the work of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian legislation. Because it's very good to repeat in detail that the law on commercial societies as the basic regulation of economic relations has been passed in 93, which began in 95, and that for the first time this law was regulated, after 1875. The Law on Commercial Companies, as is generally known, was modelled on solutions adopted in the legal systems of the Central European Legal Circle, which is based on German law and changes practically more seriously than its adoption only in 2003, with some prior to minor changes. The very important changes that are being made here are in line with our programme adopted in the fight against corruption, against money laundering, that the solutions that have been made here are how to fight money laundering and how to remove securities from the law on the bringer, also an important newspaper that will in practice facilitate work and how to apply it, so far has been the application of the dualist system of management of the stock companies, and in the Member States of the European Union, with regard to the formation of the stock companies prevails the use of precisely the monistic system, whether it is allowed or as an option of choice, which will significantly regulate the share societies in the Republic of Croatia and allow free choice between these two governance systems. What is a relief and what has been seen so far is also the need to introduce solutions on cross-border mergers and attachments to create conditions for the free cross-border provision of services needed by foreign entrepreneurs to be able to perform jobs on one occasion and occasionally, rather than seek to establish branches that create a long, unnecessary administrative work of commercial courts and their registration departments. This is also necessary in accordance with European requirements for full transparency, to prescribe the method of composition and publication of the report on the state of the company. What is also important to us in the application of the practice of applying the Law on Commercial Companies, since the lack of a common business experience in this legal area requires, in any event, the quality of the use of companies in the implementation of entrepreneurship to find or even judicial and entrepreneurial practices in order to remove this risk more clearly. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions are met in full with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the fight against money laundering, the choice between the two different formations of the companies is made, issues related to the reserves of the companies of capital are corrected, editorial and other errors are corrected, and therefore this Law and this amendment of the Company Act should be made in order to enable the immediate relief of entrepreneurial work and all those involved in such cases to facilitate the adoption of valid decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94829	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94830	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As regards the observations made at the speed of law making it is indeed impossible to disagree with the conclusion that... The Republic of Croatia and our negotiation process cannot justify the speed of law-making. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I must point out that we are in the process of negotiating a certain obligation, we need to meet, and for this we are preparing in due time, therefore these amendments and amendments to the law are not lightly or quickly prepared. They are prepared by a working group of prominent professors and experts, in line with what is part of the legal gain and which Croatia needs to meet with what the practice has shown should be done. Let me just remind you that when the law was first passed back in '93. years... In 2003, they did not show the necessary and necessary public debate on such laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, that entities should prepare for the application of the law, primarily the companies to which the law will apply, is the fact that this Law provides that, in order to enter into force, that is to say, it is to apply on 1 January 2008. So unlike the situation that we're leaving only 8 days for the preparation of the subjects we've delayed, we've been extracting legislation for almost 2 months if the law is finally passed in order for economic operators, companies, to prepare for the changes proposed by this law. Let me also remind you that I have already said in the opening presentation of the Law on Commercial Society already applies for 12 years. The structure of the law from the beginning is such that it offers a framework as to how companies should operate including their managing bodies if they can so express themselves. So boards and boards of directors. It also predicts always that the statute can be defined differently and here is the choice of companies to make their statutes potentially different arrangements. Therefore, the rules are clearly defined by law, the entities remain sufficient time to prepare themselves if they wish to bring their business into line in that segment of which this law offers that they can do so. And only one digression, not a law made, was never even modelled by management or the structure of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. As a special legal person, he has a special law that regulates his business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94831	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments after the deadline and should vote. So who's to vote on the amendments to the government that came after the deadline? Thank you. He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's. Against? Restraint? With 87 for, 5 against, five abstentions, we will discuss and vote which government has filed after the deadline. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Amendment one. Explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94833	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendment 1 to Article 234 of the proposed law lays down the exceptions under which monetary transactions are allowed for the purpose of obtaining their own shares, and the proposed amendment now extends these exemptions to the situation when own shares are acquired in the procedure... capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94834	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 92 for, 4 against the proposed amendment. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94835	This amendment gives effect to the implementation of the legal property of the European Union and when the company is established on... model, i.e. where it has its own board of directors, and this includes regulating the issue of the obligation to submit an annual report on the state of the company and the consolidated annual report of the company which is actually proposed to be prescribed by this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94836	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendment of one government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 92 for, 4 against the proposed amendment. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94837	This amendment gives effect to the implementation of the legal property of the European Union and when the company is established on... model, i.e. where it has its own board of directors, and this includes regulating the issue of the obligation to submit an annual report on the state of the company and the consolidated annual report of the company which is actually proposed to be prescribed by this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94838	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the two Governments. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 91 for, 4 against, 2 abstentions adopted and amendment two. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94839	Article... The company law defines the concept of a dependent company and the proposed amendment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] criteria identifying the notion of a dominant influence which makes it of particular importance for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] case-laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94840	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on Amendment Three. Who's in? Comrade Kramaric! Against? Restraint? Ninety-one for five against. Accepted. Amendment four.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94841	This amendment shortens the time limit for filing complaints against assembly decisions, and this provision is aligned with the whole new chapter of the Law on Cross-border Mergering and Attaching.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94842	I'm opening a debate. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94843	Mr. President. The Secretary of State, inter alia, states that an appeal for the refusal of a decision of the assembly on the adjudication or an action for the establishment of its invalidity may be brought only within one month of the decision being taken. As a rule, days, not months, are used in other parts of the law. It should be here within 30 days, not from one month, given the fact that months still don't have the same number of days in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94844	The amended amendment, as proposed by MP Arlovic, is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94845	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94846	Okay. That one's accepted. So it's 30 days. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94847	The fifth amendment is similar to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94848	We didn't vote on the fourth. We must vote on the fourth no matter what is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94849	Who is for the fourth amendment in this modified form? Thank you. Against? A fellow Mato Churchman. A little more, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94851	Be with us a little bit longer. We need you. 93 for, 3 for the adopted amendment. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94852	The proposed amendment provides the five who have allowed the deadline for the rejection of the decision of the main assembly on the adjudication that against the company of the acquirers, the constitutional claim of compensation for damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94853	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's the fifth for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 89 votes for, 4 against and 2 abstentions adopted and the fifth amendment. And finally the sixth amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94854	In addition, the amendment refers to the process of notifying shareholders and where all shares of the attached company are held by the acquirer, which has not been regulated in the current text of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94855	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm opening up. Vice President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94856	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is somewhat unusual for me to lead the debate on this amendment and on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society. However, such a solution as is offered here is the reason that no notice must be made regarding the next law that we will have in the debate on the takeover of companies when it takes over the package entirely and when it is fully owned. Therefore, there is no need to make any notice. And in such a situation, the question arises, if we adopt this amendment of compliance with the legal system, and that law is, it would be older than this law under the European Union directive. And that would make it better not to accept this amendment in content.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94857	Secretary?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94858	Mr. President! Respecting what Mr. Representative said, the government remains with the amendments for the reasons we said. So, otherwise it's the procedure to notify the regulations of, when there's a takeover of society, and here it refers only to the case where the acquirer takes over now all the shares... Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94859	I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 70 for, 23 against, 2 abstentions. Amendment adopted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 84 for, 55 against and 6 abstentions, the proposed law in the text proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94862	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unlike the previous law, the Penal Code has repeatedly been before this High House on amendments and additions. Since its entry into force and its application began on 1 January '98. He's been changed five times so far. The dynamics of social events and changes in society require the state to respond adequately to these changes, so that by prescribing criminal offences or changing criminal policy through... The penalties of both the upper and lower ranges react to the forms of occurrence in the society that deserve and which must actually be sanctioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As is the case with a number of other laws that will be before this High House, this Law is aligned with Aquis, the legal property of the European Union in the process of approaching the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, i.e. becoming a member of the European Union. That's also the case with this law. In the process of negotiations in the field of justice, freedom and security, so Chapter 24 is required, Croatia is required to change the principle... So the possibility that if someone was tried in another country where the procedure was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This procedure shall be re-implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's usually a provision contrary to the '90s Schengen convention. Year and year of '85. year, and I said that part of the EU acquis. So one of the amendments proposed by this law is to change the rules... In fact, when I talk about this rule, let me just say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose, in the final draft of the law, an amendment to its amendment in order to make it more clear to the objective, that is, what the principles... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] implies, which is that it does not allow an exception to the application of the principle... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] principles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if a criminal offence has been committed in a foreign country where a judgment has already been passed, and in part in the Member State which is the judgment of a foreign court must be taken into account. So now the amendments to the law are even allowed by the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia if someone is tried by law in another country, and the work is partly... committed in that other state... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia could not initiate either criminal proceedings or impose penalties against that person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This provision is otherwise an obligation to be fulfilled when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union and it is determined that it will apply when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Next thing you know, there's a supplement... the legislation again harmonizes with the EU acquis relating to fraud against EU financial resources because our criminal legislation should allow full protection of the financial interests and resources of the European Union in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of Financial Interests of the European Community since 26 July '95. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Convention is otherwise known as the PIF Convention. Its purpose is to ensure the harmonisation of national legislation regarding... It is therefore also necessary to integrate its provisions, i.e. through our laws, to specifically identify and regulate the disabling and protection of the EU's financial interests by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems that, with the criminal act, they're cheating that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They write down special cases of fraud to legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third amendment proposed by these amendments and amendments to the Penal Code applies to changes, i.e. an increase in the obstacles to criminal offences, putting the lives of property at risk by a general risk of action and means. You are witnessing that recently there have been major tragedies in the Croatian state, there have been fires, and these are serious crimes when they have been committed out of intent, and even from the weather and the states with their criminal policies, at the height of the suspended sentence, it is necessary to give an answer that such behaviours will not be tolerated and that they will be sanctioned most strictly. So briefly and in importance about these three groups of changes that are proposed to amend and supplement the Penal Code, its final proposal. The Legislative Committee has made an amendment to this Final Proposal for a Law that is nomotechnical in nature and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94863	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Justice, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94864	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 58th session held on 26 September 2007, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with the final draft law and discussed the law in question on the basis of its jurisdiction under Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the proposed amendments harmonize our legislation with European Union regulations in line with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in the accession process to the European Union. The proposed amendments relate to the full application of the non-bis principle and I am going in accordance with the Schengen Convention. Further harmonisation concerns criminal offences with fraud in the accounts of the European Union's financial resources. Given the increase in fire risk, it is proposed that criminal sanctions be tightened for intentional arson. On the final draft of the law, the members of the Committee made the following comments, proposals and opinions. Proposed to increase, for the purpose of general prevention, the penalty for the criminal offence of putting life or property at risk by general risk or by means of a means, and for the number of cases of repeated infringements of motor vehicle management and during the duration of the protection measure for the management of motor vehicles applied to a person under the Law on Crime, the Committee suggests to the applicant that the procedural possibility of amending Article 308. Penalty law. It shall be prescribed that the penalty referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 308. The KZ shall also punish the person who manages the motor vehicle even though it has been subject to a security measure or a protective measure prohibiting the management of the motor vehicle. The current number and increased risk of actions against road safety as well as public perception of the number of cases of ignoring and non-compliance with court decisions in the Republic of Croatia is increasing. It is proposed to review Article 5 of the proposal, which prescribes a criminal offence in export-export transactions only with the countries of the European Union and suggests the submission of amendments in order to avoid interpretation of the discriminatory provision. It is also suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia intervene with the amendment to the provision referred to in Article 15(1), as it is assessed that no application is necessary to regulate, amend the provision. After the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94865	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? Legislative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94866	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! So this is the tenth novel of the Penal Code. For years, we've been talking about how we have to make a new, whole Penal Code. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. We know how many problems are current, how many different situations so far unscathed from robbery and robbery in conversion and privatisation, that we are not talking about other situations. And now I can't believe why we're changing the Penal Code? Namely, the purpose of this is to protect the European Union from Croatian citizens from amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Well, I really can't believe it. The Croatian Government directs the law to the Croatian Parliament and says protect the European Union from Croatian citizens. Who's protecting Croatian citizens? Are we here to protect the European Union? It is the European Union that cheats on Croatian citizens in many cases and no one protects these Croatian citizens. You remember that meat imports seven, eight years old. You remember, from Germany. You remember the imports of medicines that expired. No one answered anything. And now the government has dared to say, Croatian citizens are not fair. We must protect the European Union, so I read it, we must protect the European Union from Croatian citizens so that they do not cheat on the European Union. And what the Croatian Government has done, and what is the former, which has satisfied all the requirements of the European Union, whether it is individual requirements of the members, whether it is common requirements to no one. Well, I guess if we are going to change and supplement, we should also take care of the protection of our citizens, so we should commit crimes in terms of cases of fraud to the harm of Croatian citizens from the European Union, from members of the European Union. I think it's one of the fundamental principles of right. Because it is not ours in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatia to protect only the European Union, members of the European Union and their rights. I guess it's our duty to protect our citizens first. So I couldn't really believe this when I saw what it was about to change the law. Well, why are we here at the Croatian Parliament? So whoever comes to the government, let's immediately change the government's request from any European Union as a whole, either of the members, let's change the law. How to change the law, here's how we'll tell you how. Yours is just to sign and refer to the Parliament. Because we will, so what are we doing here anyway? Shall we read the Constitution? What is the role of the Croatian representative? What is the role of the Croatian Parliament? Is it just the role of protecting the interests of the European Union or is it primarily the role of protecting the interests of Croatian citizens? So, if you want us to support this law, add your head to a special case and cheat on the harm of Croatian citizens from the owners, from the European Union, from anyone else because we know there are countless situations we can talk about on fraud. Let's take the best case of Cup Street at the moment in Zagreb. There was gravel stealing there. First, about eleven thousand cc's of gravel were dug. Then everything collapsed. It's a state-owned company, too. And what's it gonna be in the end? Nothing like water in Verbani, as is the case with conversion and privatisation. But that is why the state stands responsible and protects the interests of the European Union. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And Gallyuf's street. Therefore, I suggest you withdraw this law, and you are also the new judge of the Constitutional Court and, in the oath that you are about to take, will be one of the others to protect your interests, so Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94867	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94868	Well, it is an incorrect allegation that this law protects the interests of the European Union to the detriment of Croatian citizens. And that's basically the government's proposal. That's absolutely not true. That should be fixed as inaccuracy. This is actually about harmonising criminal material law with the two conventions that we have assumed as an obligation to negotiate with the European Union. So it is not about any protection of the interest of anyone at the expense of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94869	And another correction by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94870	Thank you, Mr. President. Kola Kovacevic said as an example of how the European Union damaged Croatia or Croats, I would extend this to Croats, of course, in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war by sending a shipment of medicines to which the deadline expired. I think that needs to be fixed. Therefore, neither the institutions of any country nor the European Union have sent medicines to which the deadline has expired. These abuses were by individuals, however there was also absolute support and support in quality support and medications and all other needs for these individuals but also for countries... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94871	HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94872	Thank you. Mr. President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, mainly in terms of the fact of harmonisation of criminal material law with the following documents. Under one, the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests of the European Community since 26 July 1995 is more known as the PIF Convention. Second, the Schengen Convention of 19 June 1990 or the Schengen Agreement of 14.6.1985. Of course, this opening section should also point out and highlight the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2 August 2007 with the basis proposed to tighten criminal sanctions for the purpose of causing fire. I would like to stress that the coordination in question should be taken into account in relation to the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and for Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security and Chapter 32. Financial supervision. In addition, as regards concrete amendments to the legal provisions, the same applies to the following offences, so the criminal offence is fraud as set out in Article 224. KZ, then Article 292, the punishment of a responsible person in a legal person who, in order to obtain an illegal property benefit for his or her or another legal person, has the means of purpose contrary to their purpose, and (c) or third, the penalties for serious crimes against general security, the offence of putting life or property at risk by general dangerous action or by means of means. A few words about the crime scene. As far as the criminal part of the fraud is concerned, in our criminal-material law, it is designated as a property property property asset, we define property damage as a necessary feature of this crime. This amendment provides that cases of fraud by premonition of incomplete data or incorrect statements jeopardising financial interests, which also benefit the perpetrators but not necessarily and damage to the contrary, will also be considered a fraud. In addition, these amendments also sanction those situations where the use of subsidy funds or the regulated aid contrary to the purpose for which those funds are granted or for which those funds are given. With regard to the offence of putting life or property at risk by a general risk of action or by means of a means of general prevention, I repeat, general prevention and all related to the apparent increased risk of fire caused by intentional or non-poverty increases the upper limits of the punitive penalties in a way that increases prison sentences within a long period of time. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94873	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94874	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, I would be far happier if we were successful in curbing criminal acts as we were successful in amending the law. So here's the explanation for that from '98. The Penal Code has been amended five times, this is his sixth amendment. So the 3rd January government has changed the Penal Code three times, HDZ's power has changed three times the Penal Code. Crime after every change is more and less. Clearly, it says nothing about the law, it says above all about the Croatian police, it speaks about the state's attorney's office, it speaks about other institutions of criminal repression, about our judges and the like. The essence of this law is the following, so now the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code are related not only to the alignment of the same with the regulations of the European Union in connection with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So that's chapter 32 Financial supervision, justice, freedom, security. Furthermore, as regards Chapter 32, our criminal legislation is in line with the acquis in relation to fraud-related offences at the expense of the European Union’s financial resources or our criminal legislation should enable full protection of the European Union’s financial interests and resources in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of the European Union’s financial interests. As it seems, this is best expressed in this Article 4 that anyone, in the procedure of granting European Union funds, puts an offer based on untrue content documents, false balance sheets, assessments or other false facts and thus puts himself or another natural or legal person in a more favourable position on the occasion of obtaining funds or other benefits, will be punished by a prison of six months to three years, and that I do not list any further. What is also interesting is this Article 2 that, given the apparent increase in the risk of fires caused by deliberate or non-accessible and for the purpose of general and criminal prevention, increased penalties for the criminal offence put into danger of life or property by a general dangerous action or by means of a means. What about the fires? What happened on the Kornati a few weeks ago, that's really scary. I dare say it again, even if a lot of firemen would resent me, it was even an adventure. But I wonder if the responsibility for those who landed, if that's what they say, is the Croatian fleet of canadians. In fact, on that fateful day, only one canadian was on the flight, two were in a remont, and the government sent one or more of them to Greece. On the other hand, Croatia is a country of thousands of islands or thousands of islands, thousands of kilometers of coast from Savudrija to Prevlaka, and is left on a canadian. And someone has to answer for that. Whether according to the terms of this law certainly not, but the one who is more favourable but someone should be more likely to answer. Of course, the minimum is a fair investigation. After that, I guess someone remembers to express their condolences to the families. The IDS will vote for this bill, but it's not here one more time I'm going to tell you about the fines but it's primarily about the efficiency of the State's Attorney's Department's police, our courts. But what do we do when we tell us some witches, that's this Split case of furniture testimony, i.e. skills for the equivalent of EUR 100 000. That's our problem, not the level of punishment. If the witches raise 100,000 euros, do you think there is no judge or state attorney who has also received 100,000 euros in the system. There are, in particular, in some commercial courts that carried hundreds of hectares of so-called tourist land to some companies without any legal basis, and that the Prince's boys also raised tens of millions of kuna in some trade disputes about it at some other time. One word we will clearly support these provisions. I mean it's nothing too high and there won't be any more security in the country. But even these fines are higher than the fires if they're bigger, maybe someone will think about what they're actually going to do along our shores next summer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94875	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94876	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Kajin, who once again said what President Mesic said about the adventure. It's not about any adventure. It is that the protection and rescue system in Croatia is not working for us and it would be better not to politicise that part, but rather to take measures to establish an effective system of protection and rescue. We only have 112. We've got these firemen and the air force. Everything else doesn't work. That's the answer to why there was a tragedy, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94877	The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94878	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the key laws for the normal functioning of not the rule of law, but for the state as such. People need to know what a mistake it is to know mistakes don't work. We change that law every year, in the last six, seven years, every year. Even lawyers don't know exactly what's in it anymore. I talk to a lot of lawyers even top lawyers. Have you voted for those changes, whether these changes are only in the process or have they already passed and so on. This leads to uncertainty and mistrust in the system and the uncertainty of the functioning of the system. Such a law should not be changed by such small changes every 6 months or a year, but by finally sitting down once and making the Penal Code according to all the principles that we accept from the European Union and by all the principles that are useful to us and which we want to do. Don't change the law. Then when there's been some kind of tragedy, some kind of carnival, and now we're going to change the law because it happened. That's the principle of reaction. Such a principle cannot function in legislation. There should be a concept. Obviously, there is no concept of how and where, how to direct criminal legislation to give some effect. Every time these changes of repression are increased as may be necessary at a certain point and for certain crimes of drug abuse, endangerment and human and property, etc. It is likely necessary, however, that these changes in results do not involve people! Drug abuse, robbery more, murders more, arson more. We make laws and comfort ourselves to see how we've done this very cleverly. Now it is certain that all those people who break the law in Croatia will not be called criminals. They're not criminals until they're convicted. So now they're gonna get scared and they're not gonna do it anymore. That's not true! That's not true! The problem isn't regulation. Our regulation today, as it was two, three years ago, could withstand any test that would have subjected any independent institutions of civilised countries. However, the problem is the implementation of this regulation. First of all, in the political will to implement what we declare. How will this political will be manifested? So it starts with the head. Not to catch the Assistant Director of the Privatisation Fund, but to catch those who make decisions for God! They weren't making decisions, they were making decisions. Not to catch small dealers, but to catch those who stand behind the dealer with their capital. Not to catch those who are trying to buy a 20m-euro firm with fifty thousand euros, but to catch those who guarantee it, a false guarantee. Now that our system hasn't politically demonstrated its will and, of course, that at this lower level of ordinary street criminals to call them that, it doesn't work, because it's obvious that things actually don't have the will to do what's written on paper. Another reason is the disorganization of the system as best demonstrated in the case of a fire system, a system of protection and rescue and incompetence, fundamental incompetence, total incompetence of people who operate this system and who should be paid and for positions, for all the privileges they enjoy really do something. In this brief proposal of the law, there are two things. The first is the pressure of the European Union where it is clearly and loudly said give you protection of our financial interests and yours, and my God, as you know. If you want to protect them, if you won't, but you have to protect ours. And what are we doing? We protect European interests. These types of sanctions that we are prescribing here for fraud against European financial interests, we do not generalise the European Community's financial interests for our domestic opportunities. It's just for them out there, it's not for us. Of course, it should be commended to a government that listens to suggestions from the European Union, regardless of what the prime minister said yesterday quite harshly. And they're not suggestions. They're threats. So, we should commend the government, we should commend the government for doing this. She listened when someone threatened to beat her. She listened, and it's a good thing she listened and had to be listened. However, I would prefer that we bring our laws for our own sake and because we will, and of course we would include in them what Europe requires of us, but to bring them for our own sake, not for their sake. Second, the second part of the law that is amended concerns general dangerous actions. Apparently offered by tragedy on Kornat. We prescribe stricter sanctions for those who deliberately/unintentionally cause such tragedies and fires. And in the Agency for Protection and Rescue is the police, they've been investigating the director's criminal activities for a year. The Agency is being laid off by the cheated defense attorneys who brought the D.A. to the Agency, with them not asking for the severance they were entitled to at the Department of Defense to come here and take care of them here. Now after a year, they're fired. So there's both illegal and immoral moves and nothing about it, and there's the key. That's why the tragedies happen. Not because the penalty for arson is 6 months or 8 months, 6 years or 8 years, but because the system doesn't work. Why don't the arson happen, for example, on Krk? Well, because the system works there. And that's the only reason. There's a pyromaniac there too. And there are freaks burning weeds in the open. But the system works there. And surveillance and shut down and everything together. Not here elsewhere. Until there's a good political will to put the system on serious feet, because this isn't serious. What Agency 112 is doing isn't serious. So until that political will is shown. We can impose criminal sanctions on a long-term prison for burning weeds out in the open. It'll still turn on. If you don't get rid of this whole thing, it doesn't make much sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94879	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94880	A colleague, Vuljanic, probably figuratively wanted to express himself, said, "Europe is threatening.". I don't think that's good to hear because it has nothing to do with the truth. Europe threatened something, so we listened to it. My colleague Vuljanić, you all know, first we have a consensus on Europe's accession and you know well that we have obligations that we have accepted for our own sake. So no one threatens us. We rule out everything we do for the sake of ourselves, for the sake of our own well-being. If you feel that it is not good to go to Europe and that it is not good to have a partnership with them, say so, so feel free to say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94881	And another correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94882	Well, here's what my colleague said incorrectly. He says, "The system doesn't politically catch," let's describe it in detail not to describe "...great fish. "". Well, that statement not only isn't true but it's also worrying, because we know the times when the political system caught and tried. I think that's why we have a judicial system that my colleague has completely forgotten about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94883	For the SDP representative club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94884	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I should like to say immediately that the SDP club supports these amendments to the Penal Code which almost introduces a special head, i.e. two criminal offences, which seem to be to harm the financial interests of the European Union. They are still elaborated in several articles. And so here, during the term of office, the Penal Code changes the fourth time. And it's not even a question of what's been changed in the Penal Code, and it's been complemented. The most controversial remains what is left in the 4th Amendment of the Criminal Code, although such announcements have been made by top state officials, prime ministers, or ministers, in relation to very specific criminal offences, almost identical to what we are now carrying out in our criminal legislation which seems to be to harm the financial interests of the European Union, but we are persistently refusing to sanction, or incriminate, criminal offences that seem to harm our country, i.e. the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia and the creditors in the Republic of Croatia. So it turns out that the believers still played in Croatia. We need to remember the latest novels of the 2003 Penal Code when our practitioners organized and therefore especially the Association for Criminal Law an entire symposium, a seminar in Opatija that had just been dedicated to the 2003 novel. And what was most important for the public and for our citizens was that one piece of hope was given, which was accepted with great enthusiasm that there was neither she initiated an investigation nor all the investigations that were later launched did not go untraced. So there was still time for this wave of old age not to spit out everything that traumatised Croatia on the second hand. I would dare say almost the same as the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. However, here in 2004, immediately at the outset changes the Penal Code, where we are introducing a criminal act of cloning into our criminal legislation. But not this kind of crime. Let me also point out that it also gave one hope, that the 2003 novel extended significant limitation deadlines precisely and most for crimes in the economy. But here is the government's view that cloning is something that is dangerous, which can happen to Croatia even though it is not yet possible to do so in Croatia. The wise policy of criminal law changes exactly by actuating certain events and preventively threatening to happen and then introducing them into its legislation. But here we have changed the Penal Code by prohibiting some behaviour that is not possible to happen in Croatia, and what is right, which is blaspheming almost every authority as if it does not show a true political will to establish what kind of a minimum of justice so that we can really show one message that such behaviours are no longer possible. But what is the worst is not only possible anymore, or that it will become obsolete, and that the Penal Code is changed, but that this kind of incrimination is once again rejected in our criminal legislation, in a way it sends a bad message and condemns potential perpetrators to commit almost the same crimes. We are all witnesses to almost a paradigm of converted crime that has not experienced its adequate judicial epilogue, and for the good part because of that and because we have inadequate criminal legislation. So let's remind ourselves, every year we get a report from the State's Attorney's Office, where it warns other than the state of affairs and shows its own work, so it does what it does under the Law of Law and must do, that it warns the executive and legislative authority to make adequate instruments available to them so that they can face this kind of most dangerous in our midst of crime, economic crime. And that almost stands in every report with a particular note that our criminal incriminations are in terms of economic crime, so what we want to sanction right here when it seems to be at the expense of the interest of the European Union's financial interests. So our existing incriminations, that our criminal legislation in that part is inadequate, that we have socialistic incriminations that are inadequate in the new way of management. And it's almost every year, and we're thrilled to accept that report, but we're deafening it. And that's not good. Here's what else happened. Yeah, and at this stage, we're just choosing new judges of the Constitutional Court. That he's a professor. The novelist who authored this novel in 2003, of course, is not said in a sentence, but he seems to have resented the rulings, and he has been ousted because of the years in the beginning by the Constitutional Court judge. A practitioner and European voice theorist who goes to Germany almost every month and holds lectures there, and on his own with regard to these incriminations. But obviously we don't need such experts, but we're punishing them further. And, dear fellow, when you laugh at it, laugh harder. In the 1990s, the Supreme Court judge and professor of the Faculty of Law were no longer appointed to the Supreme Court judge in that famous cleaning room that affected the 1990s Croatian judiciary, which neither today nor for many years will still recover, without a word of reason. And not to mention other experts who had shaken certainly not only the judicial profession, caused an outrage, that one such expert had been eliminated here from this House, or the Parliament had not given him a passing grade, and he was dead, he had been killed for 15 days. But we will not return to these subjects, let us focus on the present and the future. Let us imitate exactly what we are doing and what Europe is asking us to do, and it is nothing strange. This is something we need. For this reason, someone would fake the facts and thus receive assistance or subsidies from the European Union funds. Well, it's perfectly normal for us to have it in our legislation. That is why I do not agree with my colleagues who say that we are doing what the European Union is looking for. This requires sound logic, but we are in trouble with logic, when we prevent it from being done to harm Croatia, i.e. Croatian creditors. And it's just not, there's no explanation. However, in the ministry, this is well known to me, and yet they were on some kind of trail of public pressure, they formed an expert group that almost developed an identical plan, and it seemed to me that it had improved some of the more detailed work on these incriminations, but it had never seen the light of day, and the funds had obviously been spent on these purposes. So we expected you to dig it out of the drawers and nicely put it here into this final bill, because it really requires urgency and there's no doubt that it would all be accepted here. Who's got a problem with that? Who bothers that someone is cheating on the state and the religious people, thus jeopardizing the interests of Croatian companies. I think it sends a good message first of all to behave. So when we don't have it, it's as if we're sending a message that it's not an act of exceptional social danger that it might find a place between many incriminations that it's certainly been for some time, for a long time and it's overrun, there's a whole series of criminal acts that are in the criminal code, which clearly aren't the place to react to in some different, milder way, and to leave criminal legislation just for the most deadly behaviors, for the most dangerous behaviors that require the greatest social condemnation. In this way we will then sharpen that blade of criminal law, thus preventing the relativation of the entire Penal Code that there is almost every conduct is a criminal offence and some leprosy conduct, and then it is not a terrible thing to be found on the charge, on a criminal trial, because we know that the criminal process is also educationally affecting the perpetrators because even at that stage of the launch, he already has and should have this educational role. Here is a specific point of view, perhaps, and to remind ourselves of what these countries of the European Union have. Giving incomplete and incorrect information and facts relevant for making a decision on approval... therefore only giving incomplete and incorrect data is punishable by a prison sentence. And it's very strict, even so not only is it punitive, conceitally, intentional, therefore, but it's required that almost the same punishment be punished only slightly by such behavior out of the way. So the one who forgot, missed the duty to give information about any changes in your circumstances when seeking or obtaining a subsidy or any other tax benefit. So they're also looking for a crime of what was done out of nowhere. You can see how these financial interests are protected and almost every euro coming from the European Union. The abuse of powers in connection with the European Union's funds, so anything that could possibly have been incriminating and, under this crime, special cases of fraud against the damage of financial interests, has, in fact, a special head or two criminal offences. Here, a display of false content, false balance sheets, evaluations and other false assessments is incriminating to the other natural or legal person, not only to obtain property benefit but only to punish him in such a way as to place him in a more favourable position on the occasion of obtaining funds. So almost as an attempt, they're not still assets or days. So, the momentously this is worked out, therefore, we have nothing else, if you will not already have that incrimination drawn up by Professor Novoselec as a model of the German Penal Code of Confidence, then you should exactly rewrite all this that is there, only instead of the interest of the European Union to put the interests of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the interests of the believer. Why this crime is particularly important, because it is primarily intended to sanction those most responsible in companies, which are management structures, whether members of boards or boards of directors. We don't respond, and even you can see there are various political struggles, and then for some behavior that's more expedient to impute him, incrimination of unconscious business or abuse of position, and where there's something much more visible there, we don't have adequate legislation. And I can say that the courts not only of the State's Attorney's Office when they go into proceedings, but also of the courts there are in some strange position, and that case law is simply not uniform. Therefore, when we already have such calls from practice when we have such a uniform mood of citizens, the refusal of such incriminations, economic, contemporary incriminations that have been done to the detriment of the believers, which are, above all, the management structures, the members of the supervisory and management boards, I think that it is really pushing the head into the sand. We therefore expected, by supporting and speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, we support this Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and therefore, I stress once again the European Union does not pressure us but is simply looking for something that is normal in economic business, in the life of every country, and leaves us, of course, to protect our financial interests and no one would object to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94885	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94886	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Anticevic said something that doesn't stand, which is that in the election of one of the Constitutional Judges, there was an elimination. The Croatian Parliament does not eliminate anyone, everyone in the Croatian Parliament has the right to vote as they consider it, so it was a candidate for the Constitutional Judge or anything, when it comes to the vote you have the right to be in favour, against or abstention. And don't deny us that right, you in your coalition have voted for some that no one smart would vote for and yet, it was your right, so this is about the fundamental right to vote for, against or to be abstention, and in choosing candidates or for Constitutional Judges or anything else, and don't take it away from us, we don't all think like you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94887	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94888	Here, Mr. President, the colleague incorrectly states that she is repeating the words of her colleague Lek since last night that they were cleaners in the '90s. As far as I know, I followed well, but they were cleanups in 2000 when the entire SDP prepared a major attack on all mayors and mayors in 2001, unfortunately with disappointing success.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94889	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94890	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So every announcement of amendments and addition of the Penal Code is maintained on the citizens' minds in a way that they are expected to be more effective in curbing and punishing crime of every possible form in the Republic of Croatia, which is the fundamental expectation of every possible citizen, which means that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are bitter by an existing situation that exists and ineffectively that they are taking responsibility for the punishment and execution of those who have committed the crime. It has been said before me that the 10th amendments and additions to the criminal law have already been made to the criminal code and that the beneficiaries of the criminal system are aware that the 10th amendments and additions of the Penal Code, one fundamental law, is already sufficient reason to remove that optimism, and this expectation, because the frequent changes that are conditional upon the events of ad hoc will of course lead to legal uncertainty, to difficult law enforcement and that we are further away from what we would like, and we would like an effective responsibility, to bring justice and to execute punishment for the perpetrators of criminal offences. Of course, we have to ask ourselves why we are bringing these amendments and additions to the Penal Code that are really not enough to achieve the goal that we would all like, is the only answer because we are exposed to the pressure of the European Union. We are not the euro skeptics in the Croatian peasant party, we are Euro-realists, and now that we look at these changes and complements, then we wonder why. Why? The fraud is equal to fraud regardless of who is a fraud, a Croatian citizen, a Croatian legal person, a Croatian state or a European Union, and everyone has the same status in fraud and it is really unclear why new crimes are being introduced, which specifically refers to the interests of the European Union. We agree that the interest of Croatian citizens, Croatian legal persons, and especially of the Croatian state should be protected. Absolutely it is, but which is why we are now law-abiding to share frauds on those who are members of the European Union and our citizens. Quite illogical and just as illogical in the criminal act of abuse of power. Well, abuse of power is equally difficult when it is carried out on the burden of the Croatian legal person, Croatian state and Croatian citizen. What is the special qualification of the European Union for? So for one efficiency of prosecution, it is of course necessary to define a criminal offence first of all, to establish a criminal offence, to qualify a criminal offence, but that is not enough. For the effectiveness of this system, of course, it is necessary to discover this work in time, punish that act in time and punish the sentence imposed for the offence. Not so long ago we have had announcements of the tenacity of the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia and crime. Sinonically, it became a "Maestro" action. However, I would like to remind again that some similar actions, some similar spectacular arrests, were witnessed in 1999 when the arrest of that group of criminal organisations occurred, and everyone then hoped there was indeed a political will to punish crime in Croatia. To this day, as far as it's known, there's no criminal responsibility. The sinon fight against privatization abuse was the arrest of Kutl. What do we have today? We don't have anything, he's free of responsibility, he's free. So let's remember the arrest of a former minister. Well, it's not gonna happen again. Therefore, the amendments to the law itself will not lead to the desired and necessary goal, the objective needed for the legal certainty of both natural persons and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. To bring and to this end, it is not enough to amend laws which are difficult to implement in practice and which are generally not implemented, but rather to apply in practice. We witnessed a minister's testimony the other day when he said what you did was absolutely in accordance with the law, but it could have been different. How else? The only way it's not in accordance with the law. And now we're wondering, if the minister in charge of law enforcement and insurance of the law enforcement mechanism could have said otherwise, so do we in the Republic of Croatia have the right to optimism? We have no right to optimism. In order for the criminal system to be effective, a comprehensive reform of the justice system including the Penal Code is needed, even if we want human resources in the judicial authority, because I would like to remind you again of the report by the attorney general when it is said that our judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is not independent, but is dependent on the financial capacities of crime miles. Those aren't my words. Let's get a report for last year's arraignment attorney, and we'll see. So if we close our eyes to the need for judicial reform, if we make such changes every day or every month and add important laws, then we really cannot expect to establish legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot expect a good implementation of what we would like and continue to remain unclear and we do not have an answer to the question in this Assembly hall to hear countless times the proposals and to point out the need to amend and supplement the Penal Code with precise criminal acts. Unfortunately, we do not have any amendments and additions to the Penal Code in this proposal either. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this Act, but we point out that there was really no need for such a proposal of the Penal Code that there are far greater needs, that there is a far greater need, the need for far better precision and the definition of criminal offences, and even more so for more effective law enforcement and the taking of responsibility and the execution of penalties for each perpetrator of a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94891	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94892	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who says fraud is the same, every fraud. It's not the same. Read the text of the law you say you support. Here we are protecting the European Union so as not to be deceived by Croatian citizens, and we are not protecting Croatian citizens so as not to be deceived by the European Union, so as not to be deceived by the Government, so as not to be deceived by the authorities and that. I still have to say the same thing that's wrong is that, you don't have to be treated if someone's arrested for being immediately guilty, because we have a variety of situations where someone has been arrested for political reasons to have a completely wrong picture, and the trial finds him innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94893	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94894	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state. Here is the 20th of the 101 legislative proposal on this agenda, and on the one hand, we are very successful in producing legal proposals, and on the other hand, quickly. The REZ will cut these legal proposals soon. I think we should definitely stop this legislative stampede working in this House. Why do I say that? And this Penal Code was passed in '97. It was changed twice in '98, it was changed twice in 2000, once in 2001, once in 2003, once in 2004, once in 2006, and this is now the tenth change, and I think it's now time for the Ministry of Justice to create a consolidated text of the Penal Code because no one will be able to cope with these major changes and additions. The reason for these amendments and the additions are, for these small changes and additions, two relate to the harmonisation of the Law with the regulations of the European Union, and one is as the State Secretary said the outcome of the living circumstances. This first amendment relating to Chapter XXIV. Justice, freedom and security where legislation is in place, our criminal legislation is in line with the full application of the non-bis principle and I am going, because the rule of banning trial twice in the same thing is also in our Constitution and in the Penal Code, but it is also in Article 15(1). Penal Code, which provides for an exception to the rule of banning double trial. And as this provision, as we have said, is contrary to the Schengen Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement of 14 June '85. The year, and it is part of the legal acquis of the European Union, was then to be brought into line with our criminal legislation. But it's okay. But why has this change not been made but in one of the previous amendments to the Penal Code? Our second amendment refers to Chapter XXXII. Financial supervision where our criminal legislation is re-coordinated with the acquis of the European Union, and with regard to the offences relating to fraud at the expense of the European Union's financial resources. And that's fine, but this could still be brought into line on last year's amendments and additions to the Penal Code. And the third concerns the dangers of fires that were caused on purpose or stopped. And now the government proposes that punishment for deliberately causing fires in which property and people would be threatened, to increase the prison sentence from one to eight years, would have been half a year to five years, while for intentional arson in national parks, the perpetrator would have been a prison of three to ten years, boredom from one to eight years. In order to trigger a fire from a disaster in which property would be put at risk and people were offered a sentence of prison from half a year to five years, and so far the sentence was maximum for three years. Maybe you should put an emphasis on deliberately causing a fire. So I ask the promoter, or the government, what's the difference between the arson and the bomb? I don't think there's any difference, and if we're going to be doing a little bit of punishment like this all the time, then we should definitely declare a terrorist act for intentional arson. And clearly determine the top ceiling of this action. Because a little bit of a punishment like this doesn't make much sense. It is for the purpose of prevention, deterring potential future offenders, but of course this punishment cannot and such a measure cannot act on pyromaniacs with personality disorders because they do not find their psychopathic urge at the height of the penalty but in the need of ignition. Therefore, when such changes and additions are already made and penalties are proposed, the penalties should be called by the right name and last name. Otherwise, this ad hoc challenge changes and additions to the law because life situations happen, I don't think it's good. We should definitely work on the detection and punishment system, so the next time we get changes and additions to the Penal Code, which suggests lifting penalties, for example. for pedophilia, it would be good to also get an analysis of how many paedophiles were arrested and to which penalties they were sentenced in Croatia so that we can see in the right way whether the increase in punishment has any effect on real life in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94895	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94896	Like this. From the bench talking to my colleague, I said that intentional arson should not be considered a terrorist act. We're all under the psychological impression of tragedy. However, this is a fundamental problem of a kind of rebellion of nature against ourselves, where the rebellion of water against SDP in the City of Zagreb is a sociologically extremely interesting phenomenon. The SDP doesn't know what to do with the water or it's poisoned or Martinovci's groundwater leaks out. And an accident or a curse of fire strikes the HDZ and all of us unfortunately. Therefore, we must approach this problem much more subtlely, with much more theoretical insights than criminalise, demonize, and create moral panic. I personally believe that the whole way of relations with the public and the authorities and the opposition to the Kornati tragedy has been wrong from the very beginning. It's about deep human tragedy and finding the guilty... The police, the arrest, the cause of the tragedy will not solve this problem, as it will not be solved by incrimination as a terrorist act by a Slavonian peasant or my late mother who has burned fire all her life and has never set anything on fire except her intention to burn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94897	And another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94898	Your Honor, Mr. President! I agree with both my colleague Wesen and my colleague, Slaven. In fact, nothing we will achieve by tightening the penalty for fire, because the purpose of the Penal Code is always to be a prevention, not just sanctioning. When we know what our situation is in the system of protection and rescue, that our system of protection and rescue for these fires was just firemen and air forces, while the rest of the factors of this system didn't work from the state's protection and rescue system, we no longer have civil protection plans, no more fire protection plans, no more responsibility. You can see that in Dubrovnik the grass is burning in the center and everyone wonders instead of the city of Dubrovnik, the city’s headship has taken steps to have a plan to protect against the fires so that the grass will be cut down in time. We know ourselves that our hydrants are filled with concrete. And now, as the government reacts right now, here's a sharper sentence. And he's not asking, and he's not giving us an answer about how much the government itself is to blame for this situation. I've been saying since 2004, that the system of protection and rescue is not right for us, that we only have the number 112. So let's focus on the team of questions. A variety of situations are being talked about, and who made the decision to refer canaders to Greece? The President of the State and the Prime Minister. And then everything goes to the fire department. Very incorrect and irresponsible. We're dealing with a system of protection and rescue and let's not politicize this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94899	Replicate response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94900	I agree with my colleague, Pera Kovacevic. But I'd like to respond to the replica of my colleague Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94901	He can't. You haven't answered. ... Well, what can we do? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94902	Now it is not possible on the replica of Mr. Letica because they did not report on it, you can now refer to Mr. Kovacevic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94903	Well, I fully agree with what my colleague Kovacevic said and I cannot agree with what fellow Letica recently said that this intentional fire should not be imposed as a terrorist act. I think it should because between the effect of the bomb and the effect of the fire in which people are killed, in which national parks disappear, there's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94904	Now here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94905	209, 214. I wouldn't make it right at all if it wasn't for the former justice minister. We must not tolerate procedural mistakes when it comes to competent people. If that were the case, for example, about Shima Lucino... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94906	And you say 209th and 214th? ... Is that a Rules of Procedure or some other law? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94907	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make my humble contribution to this debate with just one single fame that I will finally say which I think would solve this problem about Article 5, which has led me, who I am not a lawyer or former minister to report to, but I am a citizen of this country who, in any case, cares about its laws being good, to be applicable and to protect every honest man from every thief, so if I was outside or in the European Community. Of course, I am not so unaware that I do not know that negotiating with the European Union is very difficult, that bureaucracy in the European Union is not small, that it is very hard and that it insists more on form than on content and that, unfortunately, we sometimes and this time we have to solve the case already solved. So, we already have this situation about false documents or showing false data, as we have heard in our criminal legislation, but we must further stress this by respecting the form of the European Union. So I suggest that we in Article 5, which applies to the former article 298, add one single letter, the letter "and" and then solve everything that we have discussed so far through all these who have appeared. And this would say: "Whoever, with the aim of obtaining illegal property, benefits himself or another legal or physical person in exporting or importing business and with the countries of the European Union, will be punished by drawing up documents of untrue content, false balances on estimates, or by other false display, or by concealing facts, inexplicably displaying the quantities of goods or things, by punishing a prison of six months to five years because I would not want to believe that anyone in Croatia is allowed to cheat on someone, now I will be concrete, from Bosnia and not be allowed to speak to someone from Slovenia, so I would say to the people's language, so we would be happy with this first letter of my name to solve this dilemma, and no one should be deceived and the European Union would write, and I think that we would be happy with this solution in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94908	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94909	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I have to say that I am in a certain way concerned that the Penal Code in Croatia is changing like seasonal shoes. This is really inappropriate for the matter regulated by the Penal Code. In fact, the Penal Code regulates human rights and fundamental freedoms, and we really change that law as on tape, which is even worse to change the law in an emergency procedure and not in any way. In fact, according to what this law regulates, it is not insignificant regardless of five articles. So let's take the turn. According to the proposal, Article 1 regulates fraud against the European Union's financial interests. By way of derogation from Article 224b, the provisions of Article 224b shall, in a constitutionally unacceptable manner, prescribe a criminal offence against the financial interests of the European Union because it is not clear whether it is a separate description of a criminal offence containing all the features of the new criminal act of fraud or whether it is a provision which is to be brought under the criminal act of fraud referred to in Article 224 of the applicable law. That is why it is really not appropriate to take such a matter into urgent action. And the explanation of this provision is illogical. It's completely unclear because it says that this work should bring benefits to the perpetrator. Is the Government therefore intending to create a criminal offence, suggest that we establish a new criminal act is completely unclear, but we will determine it by an urgent procedure with the strength of the majority for the citizens of the Croatian state but my belief is at the expense of their interests. There's one more important fact I want to point out, and that's why I called. Article 6 "I don't want to go," so not twice about the same thing. The proposal to bring the Penal Code in line with Article 55a of the Schengen Convention, which prohibits the application of the territorial principle in the Member States of the European Union if the work has been done in part in another European Union country, if the judgment has already been reached, has been completely missed. If not only the lawyers read it slowly, they will see that the exception is abolished and it is precisely the purpose of the Schengen Convention that the exception is not lifted. Unfortunately, if we didn't change it into a "will" again, we wouldn't get what we want. In fact, if we want the territorial principle to be excluded, then we have to regulate it completely differently. Why would the Republic of Croatia give up an exception and thus deny protecting its interests in criminal matters when the Member States of the European Union do not do so. Once again, I suggest that the Proposer read Article 6 with care and responsibility and establish this illogicality. I hope that by its amendment, it will change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94910	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94911	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This small legal proposal that has the P.Z.E. marking. It actually has its two parts. In one part, it is a alignment with and at their request the legislation of the European Union. In the second part, it is a tightening sentence for one type of crime that has nothing to do with any harmonisation. That means we're doing suas pontae, we're doing it because we're supposed to solve a problem that exists. And I'm only gonna talk about that other part. Not the coordination, just the second part, because I think it's a fire measure, poor fire measures, by the law of action and reaction. It would normally fall into some kind of normative optimism as it is called, but I think it's more about a normative excuse or normative extraction in any case than, of running away from the government's responsibility. Namely, how does the government reason? There is, for example, a problem such as arson, endangerment of life and property by a general dangerous action. Okay. Now we know there's a problem. Let's solve this problem! How do we solve it? Let's suggest an increase in sentence in the Penal Code, and then we've solved the problem. That's how the government resonates. But God's people, we haven't solved that problem! Because that can't be solved, but not a single problem. That's how we fool ourselves and the citizens. Let's go to absurd to make this clearer. There are a whole series of crimes, of course they are described in the Penal Code, so let's suggest, once a brief amendment, that all penalties for all these crimes are increased three times and then as there will be no more of these crimes. No, they won't! There'll be more of them. It's not a problem at the level of punishment. The prime minister will say when he's asked what you've done to resolve that problem. He'll say we didn't, so we suggested an increase in fines in the Penal Code, we spent that change, we try, we work. And he didn't actually do anything. Here, let's take another example. Let us take an example of traffic. These famous zeroes have been introduced, and let's look at the statistics. More people died on the roads this year than last year and more were injured. The prime minister said at the current morning yesterday that if we saved one life, then it made sense. The sentence is logical. But we don't know if we saved one life. We don't know that. Maybe we did, maybe we didn't. Indicators say that the dead are more in spite of the amendments to the legislation, despite the tightening of legal provisions. The problem is the organisation of society, not the Penal Code. If it's about fires, then we're dealing with arson, and we're not going to solve fires by increasing the impediment, we're going to do better by organising the service. The Fire Department is operating within the Ministry of the Interior. There's been a tragedy. It showed that the system was not working properly. What about the Minister's political responsibility? So did he go out, accept his political responsibility? What is with all of us here representatives whose duty it would be for a man to seek his political responsibility? Well, something didn't work in his system. But what we're gonna do now. We will increase the sentence and abolize the minister. Not just him, but everyone in that system who's failed. You've put an incompetent man in charge of this Security and Rescue Service, it's obvious. In 2004, when the law was passed, a man was appointed. He's out there getting cars, doing some stupid things instead of organizing his own service. And now we know that he doesn't know how to do it, we see that the system doesn't work. He's set up because I guess I know by party sympathy, and I don't know by what, by what key that man is placed there. It's obvious nothing's wrong and nothing's happening. Neither he bears any responsibility nor responsibility borne by the one who brought him there. No one. We will now settle everything by increasing the impediment. A little bit about traffic again. We've got those zeros. The man is, that young man in Big Gorica killed that girl driving 120 an hour. There are car accidents, but this man has 12 criminal charges – of which 7 for drunk driving, from which I do not know how much to drive with a withdrawn driver's license. How could it happen that he's on the road, that he's still driving? When I was amending this Road Safety Act, I suggested to the former minister that we impose a penalty for confiscation of the means of execution, especially insolent ones, so we took his car, as a ship is resisted when it is found in the territorial waters of poaching, the ship resists. Then the government said we can't do it, it's unconstitutional. Well, since it's not an anti-constitutional upheaval ship, and it would be unconstitutional to take the car away as a means of performing the work, so don't let it have a car that doesn't kill people on the road. When it was a matter of days before that man killed someone, it was a matter of days. And who? But that's gonna cause a car accident. That's one time when I don't already know her seven times he's got criminal charges for drunk driving. So we have to wonder what's wrong with that system. We have to ask ourselves what kind of justice we have, because what the work of the police and the work of the State's Attorney's Office is worth, which is worth all their criminal charges if they go to judges forging or giving minimum sentences or not taking care of the social interest at all, and that's what's going on. It happens in our society. We all know that. That's what we all see. And now, to count that by tightening the fines in the Penal Code, we're going to solve the problem, I'm sorry, it looks naive to me, it looks naive to me. We would have to open up here if we were to talk about fires opening a serious debate about the whole system. And she doesn't have to and shouldn't be a political bickering. But she has to strive to solve the problem seriously, and this is unserious, this is a draw from... The government's doing something like, well, it's changing the laws, so the government's trying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that it has no effect, as it is not in traffic, and my God, what Prime Minister Sanader says, it happens in life. It's the only way we can't work. That way we won't solve any problems. Therefore, I appeal, we will vote this. We will vote this, the parliamentary majority will vote, probably opposition MPs, because it is a harmonisation. And this may be an increase in sentence let's maybe do something a little help. But we need to be aware that we haven't solved absolutely anything, absolutely nothing, and that we've actually accepted an apology, an apology to do something. And that we accept, in fact, the government's irresponsibility to deal seriously with the huge problems of this society such as the safety of citizens in these fires or their safety on the roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94912	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94913	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's really sad that someone with such incorrect allegations is politically using a tragedy. So Col. Stazic says that the Government is going to absolve someone who may be responsible for the "Kornat tragedy". That's just not true. First, the investigation is ongoing. Second, all those responsible, potentially responsible, of course, will answer to the law if they are responsible. So don't use tragedy like this for political purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94914	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94915	Here's a respected colleague, Stazic, saying as part of the system's failures, stated that a provision of 0.00 had been introduced and that the number of fatal accidents had increased. That is true, and it would finally be good to see that everyone has a calm and clean conscience as many as 0.5 prominences that caused any car accident, especially the one with fatal consequences. If finally the MPs here were to receive statistics from the Ministry of the Interior as many of these then they could see whether it was necessary to abolish 0.5 promilas at all or whether some other penalties were to be imposed in order to introduce road discipline.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94916	Replica response, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94917	Such would be done if such statistics were likely to be 0 prominences. It'd probably be 0 promiscuous. Because it's likely that a man with 0.2 spills alcohol in his blood doesn't lose control of his actions in such a way as to necessarily cause or that it's very likely to cause some kind of car accident. It's not about desire, as the prime minister claims, about wanting to reduce the number of traffic accidents, because it's the wish of each of us, every normal man. It's about desire, which my colleague couldn't possibly understand, about the government's desire to absorb itself from responsibility, to offer some kind of solution, and to think that it was, to solve the problem. And that's what, that's what we as advocates can't accept, this future government, any government, any government, because then we're irresponsible, then we're not doing our job well. It is our duty to warn the government. People, darling, don't you see, don't you see that you haven't done anything with your 0s? So don't get out more than responsibility. So accept responsibility because it is the government's job to be responsible to its citizens. That's our job. And that's what we call government and you as colleagues to understand, if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94918	Dear Representative Slaven Letica, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94919	Studied colleague Stazic claims that... The fireman's not working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's just not true, and fortunately, it's not true. In Croatia, fire is one of the best firefighters not only in Europe but also in the world. Maybe segment, maybe leadership, maybe management doesn't work. And when it comes to responsibility. The responsibility before the curse of the water that hit the SDP in the city of Zagreb is the same as the responsibility of possibly HDZ-set parts of the fire department compared to the tragedy and fire rebellion. Another thing that's very important is the termological nature. In the west, people who fight fire are called "firefighters" because they don't put out fire anymore. And perhaps, in Croatia, it is precisely on the trail of this tragedy that such a terminology innovation should be made that it is no longer talking about firefighting but about firefighting, because it is a complex system of fighting a bloody fire which is a consequence of man's tragic relationship with nature, of abandoning nature, of agricultural abandonment of nature. And in that sense, this system of colitising is quite something that is very dangerous and is not quite this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94920	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94921	I'm not politicizing my fellow Letica this problem, you are. We can't say that the system works if people died shutting down the grass. We can't say the system works. There was a mistake in that system somewhere. I, of course, don't want us here today to determine someone's responsibility, but we have to find that something in that protection and rescue system is wrong, otherwise people wouldn't die, otherwise they wouldn't. There is no way you said the tragedy of water in the city of Zagreb. Studies show that the water is clean until it reaches the buildings. These buildings are, they're bought apartments, they're now private property. I'd invite those tenants to turn to the ones they bought the apartments on, the ones they built those apartments on, and I'd call the State's Attorney's office to deal with it. Because I can't know that water supply is to blame for someone's tap in the apartment or for someone's pipe in a building, when she didn't put it there, she doesn't keep it, it's not responsible. So there's no such thing as a tragedy. There's an attempt on your part in pre-election time... to politicize that problem here. It's your legitimate right. It's certainly your legitimate right. But what's like every one of you first is actually here is one attempt to politicize people's problems and scare people. When I call you, and invite you to join this government, our Croatian government with Prime Minister Sanader at the helm, we force him to behave more responsibly, then I urge you to do so in the interest of the citizens of this country, not for political reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94922	And the esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94923	Dear colleague Stazic called all actually representatives to behave responsibly and not to forgive anyone, and I think that is our job and I have to agree with that. I just feel like some MPs are acting like they're a wonder in the world you know. The book of praise for inconsistency is written. Obviously, we still have contributions to this one practice. And what actually bothers me in your presentation and what I'm replicating, it's still the inconsistency and division of yours and ours and theirs. I don't think that's a good thing, because then we have to remember what Letica said, but also some previous events in another government when some ministers were, it seems to me that only one minister really did when she resigned that she stayed in it, it was Mrs. Ana Rukavina-Stavovenić, and in fact all the other ministers were offering resignations, they were actually one in my opinion classical game, and the prime minister was cruelly rejecting them, he didn't accept them. And I think that in this sense, we must really try to be honest with the citizens, not be partyal, but really when we call on exactly that we must and indeed must not tolerate the accident of helicopters in Vukovar, not this Kornati, nor the Martinovka, that we must be more consistent in this, and that, indeed, no matter who is a vindictor, or who is suspected, because they are all somewhere until proven, and not that you do not really know then, and I don't know, we've been very clear about the helicopter cases around Kornath and around Martinovka and that there is still no unnecessary partying and that there is really no impression that anyone is, and someone else that is not consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94924	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94925	I don't share my colleague Kramaric in these matters Parliament on ours and theirs. That's the problem with this society. You correctly mentioned Mrs. Stavinić-Rukavina, it was a good start. A good start and an indication of how responsible the government is. Unfortunately, she didn't get a sequel. The practice in Croatia did not survive, to realize that there is something called political responsibility. You know, when you ask this government anything, they say we're waiting for him to finish the criminal trial, the investigation procedure, so let's see who's to blame. But no one asks them, so of course no one asks them for a criminal act. They're wondering about political responsibility. Here, however, I don't even ask for political responsibility, for setting fires, so of course I don't think it's my idea to claim that HDZ is responsible for the fires. Nonsense. Of course. But here we have one problem in society and we need to be aware that there is a problem, as there is a problem with these fires, I said perhaps an even bigger problem is because the victims are huge numbers, the problem in traffic. And I called for this kind of responsibility, not that the transfer of responsibility, not that I know not of left and right, HDZ and SDP, but of the kind of responsibility to realize that we are not going to solve the problem by changing the law and counting on us to do the job. Because we didn't do the job, so let's not lie. Let's not lie because it doesn't make any sense to lie to each other. The problem will stay, people will still die, and we will argue if we save one life, we've done a lot. So what do we do with that sentence? Who are we going to help? How can she help Ruzica Pavić from Velika Gorica and her family? How? That prime minister's sentence of zero prominence. He can't. We need to understand that there is a problem and that we have to solve it in a different way. That's all I called for.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94926	Thank you. 5-minute debate on behalf of the HSLS club, respected representative and vice president Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go. ... How? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Zlatko Kramarić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And such is the sudden change, indeed a sudden change. Let's hope there's an adequate replacement, even though it's hard to make up for and replace you, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94927	Dear colleagues and colleagues. What I think is really very important is that we have to warn, which is that in fact in a very short time we are already making it seem to me, the tenth addition of the criminal law which in some way shows one sense of uncertainty, because as soon as you change something very much then obviously there is no strategy and that it is really high time to get one final bill of law that will be, which will respond precisely to all those challenges of this time. Now these amendments are going to be brought into line with European Union regulations, which certainly is necessary and that is good, but in this proposal I am just being bothered by certain things that these anti-liberal implementations are. You know, we think the fact that something's gonna get sharper means that repressive element really doesn't solve those important problems of ours. For someone who commits a crime does not think about how much punishment he will be, but thinks about the fact that he will not be revealed. It's almost Freudian. It's not a crime problem. It's a problem to cover our tracks. I think the same thing, so we're afraid that the fact that it has this anti-liberal, anti-liberal dimension in it is really the same as someone said here before for prevention rather than in that sense every criminal law is not in its repressive element. The same other thing, what the same liberals have to notice, is that Eurocentric actually position of the promoter that is actually unnecessary... The European Union, and if we were to actually leave space, we are giving everything that does not belong to the European Union so that we can have some different behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94928	Thank you. Final review, how? How flying speed, and on behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94929	Here's the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly, not to repeat everything I said on behalf of the SDP Club. Therefore, there is obviously no political will to sanction economic crime in an adequate way, even though we have seen here even reactions from the Club ruling that there are thoughts which there is, handling logic and common sense, and listening obviously to a part of the people has such thoughts as to simply show this as an injustice to protect European interests without protecting Croatian interests. This is primarily important not only from the aspect of financial security, financial discipline, one legal behaviour, but above all in this way, if we had the same norms that we want to protect financial resources and creditors from the European Union, in an adequate way we would be able to act in the country to truly protect national interests, so today protecting national interests above all is to protect the most valuable resources that Croatia has, these are its properties but also the financial security of its citizens, i.e. their assets. Since we have inadequate criminal sanctions, since the Penal Code has already changed for the fourth time, here's what I'm saying is the last chance for this government to react in this way. The rest is only at the level of verbalization of the problem, we will, we can, and here when it was the last chance to do so, obviously there is no political will, there should be one consensus on these issues, and when these things are discussed and spoken of, it seems that almost everyone is saying the same thing, but when something concrete is to be done then there are drastic differences. Therefore, the SDP Club supports the adoption of this law but strongly protestes against what is not in the Penal Code and, according to sound logic,... the demand of citizens should be found to protect the national interests of Croatia, to protect Croatian creditors in order to protect the financial security of the creditors and the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94930	Oh, wow. And a 5-minute debate on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94931	Your Honor, Mr. President. This Law de facto treats these various pollution plants, ships, etc., I am interested in whether any such punishment has been imposed in Croatia so far, let's say 5 million kunas or 3 million kunas or 2 million kunas. Whether it's about INA or whether it's about our ships dropping their oil cargo into the Adriatic Sea or something. I personally believe that such a punishment has not been imposed on anyone but I also think that it should not remain on it, Croatia understandably has this problem of outdated technology, our ironworks are overcome, thermal power plants also, cementers also, INA what it does in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94932	My colleague Cain, I'm sorry, this law has not yet begun the debate. It's the penitentiary yes. You can tell what was on the press second chance. Final review by State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94933	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to look back in the final word on some of the remarks made to the text of the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. This Law is a law that represents harmonisation with the European Union, it is clearly expressed in the light of this Law, but it is not adopted because there is some pressure, dictatorship or something that would be imposed on us. We have determined that we will become a member of the European Union, negotiations are under way, and every country that pleads to become a member takes over certain rights, but it also assumes certain obligations and becomes part of that circle including its legal environment. There is legislation of the European Community, both primarily regulations which apply directly and Directives which are applied secondaryly through implementations into our national legislation. We ourselves determine the dynamics and course of how and at what rate we will integrate certain regulations into our legislation, by making sure that those related to the fact that a Member State of the European Union is delaying until the moment of our full membership in the European Union. So, when we talk about it, it's coordination, but not imposed, but within our negotiation process. The accuracy of the work is to say, there have been a lot of remarks here that are amendments to the law, I've counted them for accuracy, these are the seventh changes, you've got ten numbers of "The People's News," but that's because we've had some corrections, and there's also been a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2003, which is why we later changed our legislation in the big changes in 2004. When we... In 2006 in our criminal justice system, we changed the range of penalties throughout a number of criminal offences, including criminal offences, economic crimes, that in our criminal justice system we have criminal offences against property such as theft, robbery, crime against payment and business, then we increased the criminal offences, taking and giving bribes and receiving and giving bribes in economic business and abuse of position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the system of economic crimes exists, we need to apply it in some way, but it is rounded up. As for the number of amendments, I am afraid, and I share the fear that has been expressed here that we will not only in this Law, but probably in some other laws, be able to avoid... changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the previous point, it does not have to be like excessive comfort to us, but the fact is that in societies that are dynamic where major amendments by the legislator is conditionally forced to change laws often to move forward with these changes so that, let's say, the Germans who are generally considered to have an innate legal system have changed their trade law in the last 3 years as many as 30 times. This certainly does not mean that we have to go to this number, but the fact is that our changes in society on the one hand, and on the other hand, the process of our accession that requires our alignment with Aquis's acquis, says it requires that because the legal gain changes will also be required from us by appropriate legislative changes. However, this certainly for... The law does not make it easier for them to apply and make it difficult for them to achieve many changes, but it cannot issue a consolidated text because the Croatian Parliament is responsible for this, that is, this Croatian Parliament legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the content of this Law in its alignment, we are free to incollect it and bring it into our legal system as we consider it best to adapt it to our legal tradition, our existing legal system. The law introduces, in this law, not a particular criminal offence, but in fact a special form of criminal act of fraud relating to harming the financial interests of the European Union. In fact, when we talk about whether or not the law is passed for or against someone, we cannot talk about the law being passed against Croatian citizens. The law is passed in order to punish anyone, regardless of whether he is a Croatian citizen or a foreigner, against anyone for acts of law against a criminal offence. Namely, the criminal act of fraud is prescribed by our Article 224. where it writes through the aim of obtaining for itself or for others the illegal property benefit brings someone by false display or by concealing facts in error, or by misleading the State to cause him to harm his or her property or other property, he will not be punished by fines or prisons for up to 3 years. Now that we are harmonising our legislation with the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Community, we, with the PIF Convention, prescribe a special form when this crime is committed to giving incomplete and incorrect information or missing duties, and this is about granting assistance or subsidies if this can endanger the interests of the European Union. This is also an answer to the question asked whether this is a special crime or a special form of already prescribed criminal offence in our legal system. And further, when it comes to being an observation of the way we prescribed the inability of double punishment. Indeed when you look closely at the Schengen Convention she is not focused on... , this would indeed be discrimination against certain categories of citizens, but it is that anyone who commits part of a criminal act in one country, and in part in another, and I say in one of these countries a judicial verdict cannot be prosecuted, cannot be punished, nor can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sentence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I have already said this, will, for the sake of greater clarity of this standard, remove that doubt by its amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third round of changes referred to an increase in the level of penalties found for the criminal offence of putting the life of the property at risk by a general risk or by means of a means. This is one example where the legal system responds to the importance of protected goods and increases the penalty to clarify the message that such behaviours cannot be tolerated. This does not mean in any case avoiding any responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, the Government, the competent services. The value of the law is confirmed and strengthened through its effective application, i.e. that all the institutions of the prevention system should be present to ensure its implementation, i.e. how better it would not have been implemented at all, because this Law represents the State’s response, a repressive response to the State at the height of the suspended sentence. Clearly, we cannot now debate perhaps a specific case to discuss which punishment would be appropriate, it depends on the circumstances of each case. I'm just paying attention that this is a criminal offence, bringing danger to life, property to a general dangerous action or means. So it's not just about fire, it's about fire, flood, explosives, poison or toxic gas, etc., so all those threats that, by their weight, can be such that they represent the most severe forms of damage to the values protected by our society. And the amendments to this text were made by the Committee on Legislatives and the Honorable Representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec. The first is nomotechnical content, the second explains the content of the provision set out in Article 5 of this Act and the Government will accept them as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94934	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94935	Your Honor, Mr. President! I must correct the incorrect allegations regarding the consolidated text of the Penal Code. State Secretary, you must know the consolidated text for the Legislative Committee, but you should have proposed a provision that the Legislative Committee would issue a consolidated text of the law. And don't talk about the ministry not being able to, but the board will. Not unless there's such a provision in the law. So give the amendment if you want to get rid of it, not tell stories for little kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94936	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec were accepted by the applicant. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments after the deadline, and should vote. Who's in favour of voting on the amendments that the government delivered after the deadline? For? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 84 for, 8 against and 3 we will refrain from these four amendments that the government delivered after the deadline vote. Amendment 1. State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94938	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As we were initially announced by the Government by this amendment 1 removes the ambiguity proposed in Article 6 of the final proposal of the law, it concerns the regulation of the rules of non-bis and I am going, so that the proposed amendment 1 makes it clear that this rule is non-bis and I am going to refer to the situation if there is a judicial verdict in the Contracting State, and it is a criminal offence committed in the work of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and, in part, in the Contracting State. In that case the right non bis in going is absolutely i.e., it cannot be tried again in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94939	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you, fellow Churchman. Thank you. The result? 89 for, against 4, 2 abstentions. An amendment with most of it adopted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94940	The second amendment is, in fact, a nomotechnical character because it harmonises the text of the final proposal for intervention that we have made with the amendment one in the text of Article 15 of the final proposal, or the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94941	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is for this amendment 2? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 89 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. Accepted that amendment. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94942	By proposed provision of the final draft law... Article 298(4) has not been covered by all other customs duties... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Facts like species, origin and the purpose of goods or things, it's already just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94943	A colleague of Rosic's just a little bit more. - Hey! - Hey! - Hey! We're still voting on the Penal Code. It needs 77.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94944	So that's what this amendment does.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94945	Don't leave us so flat. ... Yeah, yeah. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm opening a debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 86 for, 7 against. The amendment has passed. And finally Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94946	Amendment 4 is of the same nomotechnical nature. It is, therefore, related to Amendment 1 which we have now accepted and is clearly prescribed that the content of Article 15(2) is therefore the non-bis rule and I am going to apply from the ratification of the Schengen Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94947	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Vice-President of the House Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94948	I think we should make this amendment a little more specific. It shall not apply from the ratification of the Schengen Convention but from the exchange of ratification documents of the Convention adopted in the Assembly and the laying down of both parties. Therefore, we must send a ratification act which, either in the European Union or when it comes or comes to us since then, is being applied in accordance with our Law on International Contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94949	I understand what the esteemed representative is saying. However, it seems to me to be common.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94950	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94951	No, it's not a dispute, of course. However, it is common and that is the rule when we pass laws or norms we adopt to be written from the date of ratification of the Convention and not from the day of the amendment of the documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94952	Just one more time, Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94953	No, I said precise, very precise from the day of the exchange of ratification documents on the ratification of the convention that we... Ratified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94954	Your Honor, Mr. President, and Vice President. There are usually expressions written in bilateral contracts and international contracts to be signed, not common legal texts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94955	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 74 for, 21 against. Are we going to have 77 votes? The clubs have declared a good part that they will vote for this law. I'm putting that bill to the vote. Who's in? ... Against? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Restraint? ... Against? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Restraint? 79, 13, 4. The law has been passed. We're going to the next point 21. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 770 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Justice, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection and European Integration. State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94957	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When it comes to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, we now have a chance to discuss a law that has not been changed so far. And the truth, when the law was passed in 2003, he rightly seemed to have caused me great controversy and attention in our Parliament and in the legal profession. Why? Because he represented one new. The question was, how can a legal person be responsible for some crimes at all? Today, after about four years of application of this law, it is no longer new. I am saying this because, simply and in our legal system, even on our way to the European Union, we must simply be prepared to accept some new principles, principles and ways of thinking. Therefore, it is undeniable that legal persons can be perpetrators of criminal acts from various spheres of social life. Certainly one important sphere, that is, the area of environmental protection, is where legal persons can certainly be held accountable. Now the question of this law is, how do we react to such phenomena? Among other things, at the height of the suspended sentence. True, this law is also a law that is harmonised at the same time and with our obligations in the negotiation process, more specifically with Chapter XXIV. Justice, freedom and security, and related to the implementation of the Council Framework Decision on strengthening the criminal legal framework for the implementation of the law against ship pollution. Therefore, in order to fully comply with our legislation with this framework decision, it is necessary to actually increase the level of suspended penalties when it represents pollution of the marine environment from ships. The decision, by the Council's Framework Decision, provides that penalties for legal persons with regard to the maximum amount may amount to at least 750,000 euros. That's about five and a half million kuna. So, for the most difficult cases of such pollution, the seas from the ships. The level of penalties prevented for such offences in our legal system or this law does not correspond to that above limit provided for in the Framework Convention. In fact, with us, the maximum amount of fines that can be imposed on a legal person is 5 million kuna, so this bill needs to increase that amount from 5 to 8 million kuna. Just as the level of penalties that can be committed by legal persons for the number of years of imprisonment which may be committed for crimes such or similar to those imposed on natural persons, it is necessary to increase accordingly the growth of those penalties which can be imposed on legal persons for certain acts, depending on what kind of punishment is provided for, whether three, five or eight years or 15 years at the most, so that these penalties are now increased, for example, by five years from four to seven million kuna, by fifteen from five to eight million kuna. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In short and in essence, this is an explanation, or this is why it is proposed to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94958	Thank you. Legislative committees? The Justice Committee? Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94959	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 58th session held on 26 September 2007, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes with the final draft law. The Committee shall also have the relevant law to debate on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed amendments to Croatian legislation are harmonised with the legal acquis of the European Union. By decision of the Council, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to increasing the penalties for legal persons in relation to the activities of marine pollution by ships. In the debate, the board members stressed that the current frameworks are not good. They therefore support the proposed increases. So, after the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously voted with 7 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94960	Thank you. The other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go. ... It's not really a judicata, and it's not a non-biss, and I'm going, because that was... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94961	Non bis and I go, well, not twice in the same but...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94962	That was an encore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94963	There was an encore first, yes. But it was Ljubica who led me astray, but... Okay. Dear gentlemen! Here, Article 9 of this current law stipulates that a fine may be imposed on legal persons in the range of five thousand to five million kunas. However, as provided for in the fine, it is provided for legal persons for the purpose of polluting the marine environment from ships under the Council of Europe Framework Decision, as the State Secretary said earlier, at least 750 thousand euros, which is equivalent to five million kunas, and then decided to raise that penalty to the maximum of eight million kuna. On the other hand, the problem is that the Penal Code prescribes or for such similar acts knows the maximum penalty of three million kunas. And now in order to comply with the Council Framework Decision, it had to increase the maximum amount of fines for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison was scheduled by a special measure of five years, so it now amounts to six million to the kuna, and then, analoguely, for crimes with a special maximum measure of ten years, it is now increased for legal persons to seven million kuna, and for crimes with a special maximum measure of fifteen years, the penalty will now be 8 million kuna. So this legal proposal de facto treats various pollutants, I said just before various industrial plants, factories, ships, refineries, etc. However, what interests me is whether any such punishment has been imposed on anyone in Croatia. And now it doesn't matter if it's about shipping companies, whether it's about our latrines, whether it's about INAs and others who don't know their own oil cargo dropping into the sea, which I don't know about different emissions polluting the environment. I suppose that such a high sentence has not been imposed on any legal person, whether it was domestic or foreign property, and I think our judges have also made sure that such a penalty de facto would indirectly mean the termination of the work of one of these commercial states. We all know that, we're aware of that. We have an enormous problem with outdated technology. Our thermal power plants don't know from the '50s, '60s, shipyards are what they are, cement plants are what they are, ironworks, TLM, about INA, which I don't know how many decades has polluted one River, Sisak, which are the most endangered cities regarding air quality, it shouldn't even be mentioned now. Clearly, this technology should now be replaced by a new one. In order for that technology to be paid. That's kind of what companies need to do. For example, there is no right to an INA whose 25% of the shares on one site were purchased by MOL and it was transferred 50% of its share that it had no right to draw out billions of kuna profits, net profit after taxing each year without investing anything in new technology, whether it was Rijeka or Sisak. Now, for God's sake, they're making a promise before the election, but I think they're moving those facilities with the Milky Way. But the question is, what is true here? If someone on the other hand could pay one such punishment, if the president of the administration felt that punishment for it and in his incomes, then surely something had changed. It is clear that the vast majority of our MPs will support this law. In one word, we can say that by repression we can get to a clean environment. So, by repressing to a clean environment, it could be some sort of motto of this law. It is clear that, on the other hand, in one deindustrialised Croatia where nothing is done or very little is done unfortunately "full", unfortunately a lot of such penalties can neither be but the problem is escalating regardless of which Croatia is more exposed to pollution from neighbouring countries than from the Croatian industry. I'd like to talk about how many jobs have been shut down in industry all over our coast or continent. continental Croatia. I think there is only one region in Croatia in which the total income industry is in the first place, and as much as it sounds paradoxical to someone, it is exactly the case with the County of Istria where the industry in the GDP is about 35%, 36%, thirdly tourism with 10% and no matter what we all experience exclusively as a tourist destination. But not to talk about it now. Clearly, the environment doesn't have a price, that environment needs to be protected, but it's also to be said or we're going to break up, or we're going to do something, or we're going to fail. Of course you should say no to the dirty industry, but also every industry can't be prevented because a country that builds its future only on the market doesn't really have a future. What I would just like to ask as an inquiry and I know that sooner or later this country will start talking about, how to treat, say, cancer patients who have suffered or who have acquired this disease because of smoking and the like. So there are many issues and how time is moving away from these issues which treats the Law on Legal Liability for Criminal Crimes will certainly be an increasingly relevant topic throughout the Republic of Croatia and therefore also in this Parliament. Understandably, whether it is this harmonisation, whether it is a message that we must send to the "polluter" club IDS supports this range of penalties as such prescribed by this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94964	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Krono Peronja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94965	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is precisely this proposal for a law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences that is actually one major contribution to protecting our environment, because in the next points of the agenda we have a very law on the agenda. Because of legal persons' responsibilities for criminal offences which took effect in 2003 as a consequence of social development, when it has proved necessary to regulate criminal and legal liability of legal persons, legal persons may be perpetrators of criminal offences from various areas of social life. Among others, one area that certainly belongs to an important, extremely sensitive sphere of social life is the area of environmental and environmental protection. Negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union through Chapter 24 in connection with the implementation of the 2005 Framework Decision of the Council on strengthening the criminal framework for the implementation of the Law on ship pollution, therefore the proposal in question proposes to increase penalties for legal persons in relation to the criminal offences of marine pollution from ships. This is for several reasons not only for the economic exploitation of the sea but also for the development of our tourism among other reasons. The Council's Framework Decision states that the penalty for legal persons is a fine which must be at least 750 000 euros in respect of the maximum amount. As the maximum penalty provided for by legal persons under the current provisions of the law is set at 5 million, this proposal also increases the overall maximum fine. In fact, it would also be worth considering that the fine is still up for legal persons, especially in relation to the criminal offences of marine pollution from ships. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will fully accept the proposed legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94966	Thank you, dear colleague Peronja. On behalf of Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Excuse me, colleague Marinović, do you want to speak for the club or not? Please, nice. I call three times. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94967	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what the Secretary of State mentioned, as well as an explanation for the amendment of this law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences, as it has also caused opposition, i.e. excitement in the Croatian Parliament. However, let us remind ourselves, perhaps, of those times when this law, the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons, was passed unanimously and that it was quite understandable in that comprehensive reform of criminal law that we started, which was unfortunately stopped in many segments and was supported by both the clubs and the individual debates. It was actually one of the few laws that had been passed by one general consensus. Of course, when this law was passed and passed, it continued on to that reform, on that mentioned novel that had never unfortunately revived and that I repeat which this government did not want to introduce, that is, the newest existing Penal Code. Because, of course, real criminal responsibilities or legal responsibilities for criminal offences can't be unless we have that incrimination in criminal law. If we don't have that catalog, why do they even match the legal person? And the direct responsibility of criminal, direct responsibility of legal persons is being committed precisely to the crime of management structures, to the crime of abuse or modern incrimination, to abuse of trust which we unfortunately do not have in our criminal legislation. I'll do it again. What we have in our Penal Code literally suits you with that socialist business of how much money, or goods, has come in and how much has come out. So who in such a way is still doing business, i.e. what kind of malfeasances are possible in the modern conditions of capitalist business, where the central crime must be the abuse of the trust of the believers, where the believers are played in different ways. Now, since we don't have this crime here, then it's really over and beyond reason to talk about the true criminal liability of legal persons for crimes. There's a question here. We have never received a report, so for four years, it has insisted on how many legal persons were eligible for criminality and what sanctions were imposed on them. Of course, fines are provided for legal persons but also death penalty, i.e. for a legal person which means the liquidation of that legal person. Well, it would be really interesting to see how many legal persons fit and whether they fit at all. If it was appropriate for a few people, then we can say that the law does not apply at all. And why isn't it applied? Because there are no real crimes in the Penal Code by which they truly should be held accountable or in which their social danger would be manifested. And that's the problem. But here we are changing what Europe is asking us to do, because a small fine of three million kunas for polluting the marine environment made by a legal person, i.e. the most common shipowners, because there is exactly an increase in the penalty for such behaviour that makes the legal person or their ships in their possession and pollute the water, i.e. the sea. So the penalty is projected to rise from five million kuna to eight million kuna. Even in that, it doesn't have to be any issue. But what in practice is this going to look like and who it's going to apply to. On our boaters? Well, we almost don't have any more. We've decimated our shipping company in the 1990s. We sold them, we destroyed them, etc. so that our sailors who have passed the glory of Croatia's seafaring around the world and although competition from the east is very much still true, the real boaters choose Croatian sailors. However, as a maritime land, we have few ships and what we have especially when I talk about these fishing boats. There was a big, big plan of this government, but a little bit of it came true. Therefore, our ships are old and it is no wonder that it does not deliberately pollute the environment. Therefore, these penalties, as they are with us to our legal persons, we have seen that this, that the law is very little or not applied at all. I'd like to be denied by a representative of the government. So, who they're going to refer to. Eventually on our shipmen when they find themselves in foreign territorial waters. Practically this kind of punishment for them will mean death, i.e. Extermination. But who's to blame? It's nobody's fault. These are the European Union rules that it requires for all members, so of course if we want to be participants, that is, part of such a large family that we must behave adequately. But the only question is why do we not apply such standards, such as one behaviour, and not only to polluting the sea, but why else do we not use illegal, criminal behavior of foreign companies when they are found in our country, or when they are operating in our country. We see that workers' rights are played, that this is justified by the input of foreign capital before which we, in the 21st century, worship as a great Catholic country as a golden calf. And here we are afraid to upset them, and all to the harm of our environment, our man. Let's just think of the first victim who fell just like that, with eyesless behavior that damages the elemental things and the late Martinovic. I think it's one direct victim. And the question is how long and polluting and poisoning the number of diseases, the most professional to which women are exposed, especially in trade chains, but also in these other foreign capital facilities, will get killed so that we can't protect ourselves there. I don't think anyone's defending us. We are not going to declare ourselves an environmental piglet for foreign capital often suspicious that is not being checked here when entering Croatia and acting as they would never behave in their home countries. Therefore, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, of course we support these amendments to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. But it remains disputed why this law does not apply as a whole and why it is favorably often viewed by the very capital held by foreigners, which does not just say that it violates often the norms provided for by other laws. But above all, this is when we are already deaf to it and we are as favored as we are, but surely we should not be deaf to acts of criminal nature because they are in the catalog of criminal acts, or in the law itself that provides for legal persons' responsibility for crimes. This is not at all, therefore, when the law was passed, it is something that, although a kind of novelty in our legal regulation, legal persons can also be held accountable. The truth is that theorists have been slow for a long time, and fortunately, there was no dispute with us whether a legal person could at all show his will, or whether he could commit a crime. But if it shows the will to make legal deals, to gain property benefits, which is also the essence of corporations, financial power, then there's no doubt that they can be held accountable. First of all, in the modern world, which is actually corporate, in the global world. When these very powerful corporations were forced over governments that are practically the centers of social power, not just financial ones that often conduct life in one country. Therefore, by respecting and looking at the favored entry of corporations, we must sharpen first and foremost their responsibility. Because, of course, increased power requires increased responsibility, not reduced responsibility. Therefore, the person who is given more, who can, who earns more, must also have a binding responsibility. Unfortunately, we've been acting exactly the opposite in recent years. Those who are small are weak rights, and the rights of the strong are strong rights. It should make society exactly the opposite, that the rights of the weak are strong rights. There, once again supporting this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, we appeal primarily to the Government to control the mechanism whether and how the Law on Liability of Legal Persons is implemented. But once again, we regret that there are no adequate sanctions that we could sanction economic crime and then call on the responsibility of not only the responsible person in the management structures as members of the boards of directors or supervisory boards, but also the legal person as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94968	Thank you, dear colleague. Corrections to an incorrect quote. Did I get a good look at Lalic's colleagues that you wanted to correct the quote or not? I know that. He's a colleague of Markovanovic's. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94969	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly states that women tend to suffer from the chain of commerce. Let's just say I know one of her party linemates who profited from trading in the Lidl trade chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94970	But that colleague of mine didn't say anything about it. Therefore, there is no correction to the incorrect assumption. On behalf of the HSP club, a respected colleague Kovacevic has a word. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. On behalf of the HNS club, dear colleague Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. ... And don't, pal, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please, colleague! Well, don't. So don't say things like that or insinuate what you do all the time, it doesn't make sense. ... It doesn't make sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I told you that you didn't correct the incorrect allegations because you were talking about a colleague that no one mentioned here in the presentation about this. And besides, it's a pre-election campaign, but you don't have to take it to the assembly right away. Come on, let me finish. ... Here's my colleague Vuljanic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is a bit surprising, in fact, a man could say astoundingly that we are getting such a proposal to amend and supplement a law that regulates only one tiny segment of what this law is talking about, which would mean everything else 100%, there is no problem, we really keep under the control of companies that are breaking the laws at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the damage of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Only shipowners who release oil are too mild, too mild a penalty has been prevented from them and Europe threatens them with more punishment, so we will also bring it down to the level of Europe. Which, of course, is true, but it's not the whole truth. It is clear that legal persons, companies, can commit crimes as well as physical, well not all of them, but those who by nature can be done. We're only talking about one of these crimes, the crime of pollution at sea. And the debate that should actually precede this general mention of this law is again a debate on the functioning of the system. Namely, what happens when large companies, significant companies, wealthy companies, companies that control a good part of the social not to say political life in Croatia, create inconsistencies. If someone gets hurt, then the one who got hurt starts the damage procedure and so on. So a civil suit, hires lawyers and tries to prove that the company should damage it. It happened with a brewer in Karlovac, it happened with some other companies in Croatia, with people suffering from asbestos. If it's more people who are inhumane, immoral, then the non-business functioning of such companies gets hurt, the state jumps in and actually subsidizes responsibility, so people get a shortened job experience, declares them professionally ill, and has other benefits, again at the expense of the state, which doesn't mean that the state doesn't need to help people, however, of course it should, but first of all they have to pay whoever's guilty. What happened to that stream in Zagorje that has been polluting for years, while neighbors who haven't heard from it in the yard, the state hasn't noticed that Pliva is doing it. The amount of punishment whether that is 3, 5 or 8 million, will of course not solve anything. The fine is the only punishment the company can feel, but the very height of the penalty unless it follows the firm will and efficiency of the system to cut off this sentence immediately and immediately collects God will not know what to do. Among other legal persons, the company does not only commit crimes in the protection of the environment of human poisoning, as was the case with the brewer, as is the case with asbestos and so on. They commit other crimes. They commit a crime of fraud, for example, they don't pay people their wages. The employer signed a contract with the worker, the contract is legally binding, in the contract says the worker will be paid. The worker doesn't get paid. What's the worker doing? He sues the employer over the union most often, and that's what we'll try to end in the next point so the union can do it, that's another story. But then the worker sues the employer for damages. That's where the state shuts up. And a fraud was committed, a clear and loud fraud and a state attorney would have to report in that situation and say this company committed a fraud, so it did not act under that contract concluded with 100, 200, 500 or a thousand workers and states, the state's attorney would initiate criminal proceedings against the company for fraud. That's not what we do. It's not done, or it's done the less the company is bigger. A little craftsman who makes some kind of mistake, something like that, if you want to commit a crime, you'll catch up with him relatively quickly. A large company can obviously react with its legal teams, can react with lobbying and so on. and finally with some kind of appeal to both the state and all of us that they are too important for that community and for the state to be pressured now because God didn't give them God, they could now be here and shut down and people would stay on the road and so on. The strategy had companies in the Western world as long as the state, the government didn't set itself up so that the strategy defied them. Of course, drastic punishments and, of course, rapid treatment in situations where the crime was committed. So the essence of things isn't and can't be in five or eight million fines. The bottom line is whether the state apparatus has the will and intention to react and punish any crime committed by a legal person, no matter how strong, influential and important for the whole community and for the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94972	Thank you very much, fellow Vuljanic. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while. They thank the MPs for their remarks, and for their support of this law. I just wanted to say that sometimes it doesn't sound right to us that we haven't changed the law in 2003. It's good part, and it's not partly because this law as a law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences is necessarily bound to the Penal Code as such... the offences referred to in that law. [[You don't understand.]] Here, now proposed by this Framework Decision, which refers to the level of punishment prevented by those who cause damage to the ship, we increase the range of penalties for all criminal offences that can be committed by legal persons and for which this law prescribes a range of penalties. I'd just like to add that there's no sign of capital here again. Why? Because if it is foreign capital, this law is about material law, so the criminal law in Article 250 of environmental pollution speaks of the one who pollutes the environment. So either a legal person is domestic or foreign. I also don't think it should be reminded, let me just say that if the founder of a commercial society in the Republic of Croatia is a stranger, so if it's a foreign capital, he is a domestic legal person, and therefore the criminal law, regardless of the origin of capital, applies to him. If the situation were to occur if I understood correctly from some exhibitions, if it were for a domestic shipowner to commit, pollute the environment by boat in a foreign territorial sea, I am not sure that this law would then be applied, the law of the country on whose sea this work was committed would likely apply. Clearly, we and through this law confirm our willingness to sanction and react to such phenomenal forms when it comes to legal persons. There are otherwise statistics, data on whether legal proceedings are being conducted, they are regularly published in the statistical report each year, statistics for 2005 say that 149 applications, 61 rejected, one was dropped, the indictment was filed 33, and 11 judgments were passed in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94974	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94975	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 96 for, one against, three abstentions. With the majority, the proposed law has been passed along with amendments that form part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94976	Next item under regular number 23. The final draft law on the exercise of the right to legal aid will be skipped so that, for the time being, associations will not have to worry about having to register further so that they can provide legal assistance, because on this point, the final proposal for the law is guided by additional consultations on its completion and improvement. Then we move to the point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 771 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. The word is Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Vera Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Only in a few sentences will I follow this bill. I recall that the Law on Pension Insurance is given the definition of professional diseases as well as those caused by the longer direct impact of the process of work and working conditions on certain jobs, and the list of professional diseases is now also regulated by the existing Law on the List of Professional Diseases, and that list contained in the applicable Law is now in line with Recommendation 194 on the list of professional diseases of the International Labour Organisation and covers all known professional diseases. However, the acquis knows some different approaches to the definition of the list, so in the process of harmonising with the acquis and with the appropriate recommendation on the European List of Professional Diseases, the Republic of Croatia meets the requirements for harmonisation with the acquis, thus creating a prerequisite for establishing a system for monitoring professional diseases compatible with the countries of the European Union, and that it is of course easier, and the possibility of easier data sharing but not only data but also experience and practices related to professional diseases by particular activities with the European Union countries. What I would particularly like to emphasise is that the acquis of the European Union sets out only the minimum requirements that each Member State, or candidate, must meet, each country with its own legislation and practice, has the right to increase the scope of the right, which is also done on this occasion. Namely, the proposed amendments and the amendments to the Law retain all rights acquired, i.e. and in the amended list, which is also in the form and structure in line with the European Union list, the diseases that are not present in that European List, which have been recognised in Croatia so far by professional diseases, are still retained. This is for a very short introduction, so I repeat the rules for harmonising with the European List of Professional Diseases, of course the entire area of occupational diseases should be approached in a way that builds a consistent system, given that the loss of work injury and professional illness has already reached 4% of the gross-home product, that there are over 200 thousand disabled pensioners, I would only remind that this House has already contributed to the construction and construction of health insurance and health care regulations not only in a normative sense but also in these norms or legislative frameworks has supported the strengthening of the institutional framework in this sphere, so the preconditions are designed to build and build a better consistent system, and here is only a certain normative assumption concerning the list of professional diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94978	Thank you very much. Whether or not the work-body rapporteurs want to take the floor. Choose your colleague Pukleš on behalf of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As regards this Act, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction considered the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance Companies and the payment of pensions on the basis of the individualised capital savings submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 13 September 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed in that final proposal the property of the home working body. The opening presentation was submitted by the applicant's representative. The Committee has made a proposal for an amendment to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, in accordance with Article 7, Article 9, and Article 22. Final bill. Proposals for amendments to Articles 7 and 9 were accepted in the following debate. The final draft law so that the Committee unanimously decided to submit them as its amendments while the amendment was made to Article 22. The final draft law, in agreement with the proposing representatives, decided to leave the Committee to the restoring ministry in terms of the content and nomotechnical solution of the above-mentioned amendment, as it noted for that amendment the need for consultation with the Registrar. After this debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individualised capital savings, together with the following. I'm sorry. We can, we don't mind saying the amendments that we are. Amendment 1 to Article 26 shall be added independently to the word "authorised", and Amendment 2 in the new Article 28(2), subparagraph 4, after the word "after termination of membership" shall be added to the comma, and those words except for the height of the pension shall depend on... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94980	Thank you, dear fellow Pucklesha. In view of the fact that the chairman of the committee has made a statement to the Committee on Point 27. The final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Pension Insurance Companies, the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings and, at the same time, the amendment, I expect that when the time comes for discussion on that item of the agenda, representatives of the legislator will also be shown on that amendment as it is the amendment of the Committee. Thank you very much. We continue to work on this item of the agenda, so the final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on the List of Professional Diseases. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Jagoda Martic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's on behalf of the SDP Club a few sentences regarding the bill that is before us. As a candidate country in the European Union, Croatia is obliged to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union. Thus, this proposal for a law which is the subject of today's debate wants the current Law on the List of Professional Diseases to be brought into line with the provisions of the European Union Commission Recommendations of 19 September 2003 on the European List of Professional Diseases. In this way, the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country meets the requirements for harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and thus contributes to the rapid opening of negotiations for Chapter 19 of social policy and employment. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of this Act. In the process of harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union, each country has the opportunity to increase the scope of law in accordance with its own legislation and practice, and it is good that this possibility has been used when drawing up this proposal for a law, so that all rights acquired in the amended list, which are not on the list of the European Union, which have been recognised by professional diseases in Croatia so far, and in any case positively, have been reserved. However, I would like to use the debate to point to another problem on behalf of the SDP club. Legislative regulation governing issues in the field of occupational diseases and occupational injuries has been distributed in several laws. Therefore, in Article 38 of the Pension Insurance Act, the definition of professional diseases is given in paragraph 1, and paragraph 2 of the same article states that the list of occupational diseases and diseases in which these diseases occur and the conditions under which they are considered professional diseases will be subject to a separate law. Furthermore, the Labour Protection Act found that protection is carried out with a view to preventing injuries to the work of professional and other diseases related to work, as well as to protecting the working environment. There is also the Health Protection Act, which prescribes health care measures in relation to work and the working environment. Such fragmentation of the legal provisions makes it difficult not only for those who seek their rights, but also often makes it difficult for those who, for certain reasons, have been affected by health as a result of exposure to certain unfavourable working conditions or who have been injured at their workplace, also make it difficult for those who have to implement these legal provisions in practice. Furthermore, as the proposer himself observes, no positive regulation establishes the obligation of a health care institution to provide data on diagnosed professional diseases, nor of the employer responsible for the creation of a professional disease, nor of the Croatian Institute for Medical Medicine, nor of any sanctions provided for unless they do so. As a result, the number of reported cases of professional diseases in Croatia is significantly lower than the actual number, and also significantly lower than the average of the European Union countries. As a result, the SDP Club considers that it is high time to approach the development of a comprehensive Law on Professional Diseases and Injuries at Work, which would in one place regulate all issues in this area, and the list of occupational diseases would be an integral part of the law. In this way, a uniform legislative regulation, namely a single law, would regulate all issues related to occupational illnesses and injuries at work. We believe that this would create preconditions for establishing a consistent system that is necessary to significantly improve the records, monitoring, and thus preventing the emergence of professional diseases, since it is not a significant figure of 237 thousand 376 people with disabilities pensions, as it is not negligible even that the losses caused by work injuries and occupational diseases are 4% of gross domestic product. And to conclude, the SDP club will support this Proposal of the Law on the List of Professional Diseases, because we believe that its adoption is important in order to speed up the opening of Chapter 19 in accession negotiations, but we also suggest that as soon as possible the creation of a special Law on Professional Diseases and Injuries at work that systematically unify all those issues relating to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94982	Thank you, dear colleague Martic. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Andrija Hebrang. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the ministry. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases, with the Final Proposal for a Law that represents one link in the chain of regulation of the entire problem of professional illnesses and injuries at work. This law regulates two things. It is one thing to bring a new list of professional diseases in line with the European Union guidelines and another, which I find equally important, if not more important, is how to introduce and keep a register of professional diseases. The problem at work is the so-called illness. The area of specific health care and in Croatia has been regulated for years with various laws and various sublaws, and this is another such harmonisation of the entire system that is well managed, but there are also great shortcomings. According to European Union guidelines, the employer is responsible for occupational diseases, safety at work and the working environment. In Croatia, the employer has not yet taken this obligation to the proper extent and therefore there are certain shortcomings. We have today's application, the mandatory reporting of professional diseases that we introduced in 1990. After that, we also introduced a Croatian Institute of Medicine who did not fully perform everything that was expected of him. He was to run a professional, organisational and proposing-legislative function. But he didn't complete it. But he's here and he meets most of his legal obligations. We also have the Health Insurance Act for Health at Work adopted by the Government this year and on the basis of which the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work was established. So we have a whole series of institutions that work. But when we look at the records of professional diseases, then we see a whole series of shortcomings. First of all, these are deficiencies in the field of work-related injury records. We're getting better and better indicators from the injuries at work. But as Mrs. Secretary of State said, we have over 200 thousand people with disabilities, most of whom are disabled in their work. The truth is that a large number of these people with disabilities will threaten you by running to Sljeme for more than 60 minutes, but they have been disabled for many years and decades. Thus, there is a lack of proper assessment of the consequences of work injuries and even diseases that have been acquired at work. We have a labor injury rate that stagnates in the '80s. It's been improving markedly since '85. years on the ground, so we came from four thousand injured people to 100,000 employees per thousand 500. Is this a consequence of better care at the workplace about employee safety? Certainly not. This is due to legislative restrictions in the exercise of different rights. As far as professional diseases are concerned, the records also show another major irregularity. My colleague talked about them. Let's say in 1990, we have ten professional diseases on 100,000 employees. And five years later, 25. So two and a half times more. This is not due to weaker concerns during this period but to weaker discipline or better discipline in reporting these diseases. And it's just amazing that if these diseases are involved with four percent of gross national income, which is true, that we had two years ago, I only have the latest data from 103 registered professional diseases in 365 days, which is absolutely below what is expected. So there's a lot more to be done. And that's why I think this amendment to the law is welcome. She's doing two things. First, it seduces the order and European standards in the list of professional diseases that have been divided into two parts so far. One list of professional diseases, and another list of professional illnesses. It was definitely a list of such very epic and descriptive, and today's list that is here is very exact, very simple and it has reduced the list of professional diseases compared to their cause to four groups. The first group of chemicals are sorted according to the logic of the application of chemicals in the working environment. Other diseases are caused by physical harmful factors. Third biological effects. And it is good that the legislator added a fourth group. These are those diseases that are not included in the first three groups, which represent both parts and in Croatia a specific specificity. Finally, in Article 3(3) of that same Article, an obligation shall be imposed on the health and labour ministers in such a way that the Minister responsible for Health, with the consent of the Minister responsible for Labour, prescribes a way of managing the Register of Professional Diseases. This is particularly important, and this is the most qualitative step of this proposal, because if a patient register is established to monitor, but also an employer, it will also allow for control of the employer's obligation to improve the working environment, then we will really benefit from this amendment of the law. That's why on behalf of the club we support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94984	Thank you, fellow Hebrang. It's time for my dear colleague, Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. I also support this proposal on amendments to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases, as it goes in that direction to introduce more order in this area. Therefore, it is not only the alignment with the gains of the European Union or the alignment with the list that is valid to Europe, but because of the fact that even greater discipline has been introduced in some way in this problem of injury to work and occupational diseases, as so far in the debate, it has been recorded that there is a huge disproportionateness between the number of cases of professional diseases reported that range from only a few thousand. And when we look at the number of people with disabilities, that's 200 times that. So over 200, 300 grand we have disabled labor. So obviously that all the laws so far have not properly regulated the obligation to apply, and they have also not been any stronger sanctions that those who are obliged to do so would have, I think primarily as a representative of health institutions not to report professional illnesses. So, since the '90s, by creating a state, we've faced this problem and our law of '93. The year on health care has just formed in the sense that the problem is particularly regulated by the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine, which has been issued by the Professional Diseases Register. However, Professor Hebrang himself said that with all his goodwill he did not do all that was expected to be done. So he mainly dealt with these preventive systematic checks, and not with these other activities that would be related to improving the regulatory legal that this is not happening, this small number of applications. Therefore, I also believe that this is a good proposal because it finally introduces order in the list of professional diseases. So they're systematicized into four groups. And I also think it would be good if, after now, after these few partial laws that regulate the same problem, it were to be thought about what counterpart Martic said making a single law that would bring all of this together and it would be much easier to manage. Anyway, I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94986	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. Dear colleague Ruža Lelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94987	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here's certainly this Law on the Completion of the Law on the List of Professional Diseases actually brings us a alignment with the European same professional diseases so that our data can be monitored more easily and compared with other countries and with an emphasis on... which causes professional diseases to mean they can compare whether or not this frequency is higher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we look at the list itself, we see that it's really more transparent and simple to follow. But let me say a few words and broader than just this law that we're discussing here right now. According to both Croatian and European laws, the employer is responsible for the safety of the workplace and, as fellow Hebrang said, it is true that many employers are, but it is still insufficiently represented. They are especially responsible for those working months where there are increased risks, risks of work injuries and professional illnesses. The trend from the Labour Protection Act is precisely to reduce the meaning of both work injuries and occupational diseases but also the increasingly pronounced problem of injuries and diseases related to work. When we talk about professional illnesses, then we see that they are necessarily registered with us since 1990. And here, if we just look at the data that by 2005, it was all registered to 2,000 227 diseases and what is in certain years, it was all 81 and not more than 2003. 122. So we certainly have more professional diseases but they're not recognized and they're not reported and they're not diagnosed. One of the reasons for this was for sure, and one of the things we can tell the doctor. In one part, it was up to the employer, but in one part, I would say, by the most part, also because of the inability to diagnose. We had a situation so far until we adopted a new Health Protection Act at work that during diagnostics actually the worker had to pay for his own diagnostics but often it was expensive diagnostics and were not able to do so. And later when they did, and a professional illness was established, then they often had problems with how to place their remaining work capacity. Of course, the new Labour Health Protection Act will certainly improve the situation in many things, so when it comes to professional illness there is clearly stated and the application process and the recognition process. We see professional illnesses and accidents at work, that they are also important for the economic progress and development of the country. And here's what we have here information that we have disabled persons 429 thousand 421, of which are disabled workers 109 thousand 104. We have to say that many of these cases have occurred and because of the change in our pension insurance when we had a situation if someone is not capable only of his job he was immediately declared disabled and therefore this process and this information on these figures is quite high, which certainly this amendment of the law has slowed significantly. When mentioned here often also the Croatian Institute of Medicine I would really like to say here that those all obligations that he has failed to resolve and he has done a lot of things and has contributed to the development of specific health care but indeed this institution should be strengthened both with equipment and with staff because there are a few people who are leading, actually carrying this whole activity and they simply are not able to do so they would know and how they would like to do so, so it is indeed one of the priorities that our Croatian Institute of Medicine is supposed to be our headquarters that will help us all in the field in coordination, planning, monitoring, that it can be even more successful in this area. I say, and now they've done a lot. Surely the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work will contribute to all this, many of the acts I hear from colleagues that they have already made, so here we should continue to do this and then certainly the responsibility of employers will come even more to terms because, for example, I have worked for many years in the office itself, I know that some structures, for example, when it comes to forestry, they regularly come when it comes to other activities but there are many activities especially in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who still do not understand the importance of investment in the health of their employees and which is very important. And let's say now I would also say that agriculture, we used to have farmers where we had combinations where workers regularly came for systematic checks. Now, more in this sector than ever, employees or those who do so are not being followed by family economies, and I think there is certainly damage to work and those who can cause professional diseases. So this is now the law we're passing today. This is one alignment with the European Union, certainly it will add, help us to better follow, to record all of this, to compare with the world, that it is more transparent in the end and better arranged but these other mechanisms need to continue to develop. Much has been done in this area but should continue in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94988	Thank you very much. Any final word from the applicant's representative? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this text of the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94989	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 100 votes in favour, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94990	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. 24. Final proposal of the Public Procurement Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 694 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law? Yeah. The word has a Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, there's a new proposal for a public procurement bill ahead of us. Let me just tell you how much public procurement was recorded last year, then you'll see how important this law is and how important it is to arrange this area. Last year there were 29.5 billion kunas or 11.8% of gross domestic products recorded in public procurement. And what are the goals, what do we want with this law? Therefore, the main objective of the proposal for this Public Procurement Act is to establish a fully efficient, efficient, transparent and coherent public procurement system through improving public finances management, establishing an optimal relationship between the public funds invested and the value obtained. I have to say that these first two things about managing public finances and establishing optimal relationships are with changes to the law, with a different organisation, the establishment of a state treasury has practically already acquired technical conditions that this law can be fully implemented. Promoting free competition, reducing administrative burden, preventing corruption and crime, protecting the environment, promoting excellence and effective legal protection. What the new law adopts are new public procurement institutes such as competition dialogue, dynamic procurement system, framework agreement, electronic auction and their course. A new electronic public procurement system in an electronic public procurement advertisement, a public publication in the e-procurement messenger of all procurement procedures of more than 70 000 kunas, a single public procurement dictionary, the possibility of electronic setting up of public procurement procedures, simplification of administrative conditions, the public opening of offers with the possibility and presence of each person, whether or not a participant of the procurement process, the possibility of each bidder seeing the offer of another bidder other than those of the offerings identified as a secret. The contracting authorities do not have to implement any procurement procedure prescribed by the Final Proposal for a Law of less than 70 000 kuna, a more effective legal protection procedure through the possibility of controlling the procurement process and the investment of an appeal at all stages of the procedure. Quality new powers of the Public Procurement Office for the protection of public interest and the application of the same procurement procedures for over 300,000 kunas of goods and services and 500 kunas for works. What we believe is that we will achieve by amending this law and which will primarily be an incentive effect on competition, reducing the administrative burden on the bidders, preventing or reducing the potential for corruption and crime, saving time and money to use the electronic device system, education and perfection, preserving and protecting the environment, and what I think is the most important economic relationship with taxpayers' money because with such an amendment to the Law on Public Procurement, some unhonorable actions will be practically brought to a minimum or their occurrence practically comes to zero. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94992	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94993	Here's just one little correction to an incorrect quote. So what the final Mr. Minister said by presenting this bill, he argued that this proposal would establish a full economic relationship with citizens' money. That is not true, or it is not entirely true, which is why I am correcting this incorrect allegation. In fact, as long as only formally the most favourable offer is shown because it is the cheapest offer, and this cheapest offer is essentially the most expensive in the regular, regular market for the supply of money and, respectively, funds or certain goods. We won't be able to achieve proper control of public procurement. So it's just a formalization here again, but as long as we don't take into account why and how this most favourable offer is something that's most expensive than we can get in a public offer. That is the problem, and then it would be the real protection and management of the resources of the citizens, i.e. by means of budgetary means, and equally, it would remove any suspicion of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94994	Thank you, dear colleague, but you have not corrected the incorrect quote but have expressed your opinion on what is considered to be the most favourable It is not common when I chair, when I chair and therefore deny you the attention of that fact that you no longer abuse the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Antičević Marinović: It is common here!]] Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Josip Leko. He's gone. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94995	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law, as stated already by the minister as technical reasons for the adoption, I would like to state a few more reasons that the HDZ Club considers necessary to make public support for the adoption of this law. The first debate raised questions and doubts as to why the adoption of this law was now at the end of the term of office and why the adoption of this law in relation to the provisions of the old law. So we respond to this with the first fundamental view that the old law did not, although it had a lot of good intentions not sufficiently regulated the problem of procurement in Croatian society. In practice, many deviations in the application of this law have appeared, so we remember countless cases so that we would not pollemize or partyally in any way today, but those skilled players who knew they knew how to fine-tune the law. And just by seeing the problems that have arisen in the application of this old law, we felt that it was necessary to go now to pass this law, not to extend that period probably for the next year or some other period. It is from this application that, for this reason and intransparentity of some of the provisions of the old law have been approached by the making of the adoption of this law. In the first proposal, of course, there have been certain failures, and now this second reading has tried to remove most of these remarks and failures in this previous law, and we believe that today this law offers quality solutions rather than the first reading we have had. Second. Some of the provisions and remarks of the European Union and possibly some of the other discussions that were here have been used, and most of these remarks have also been incorporated into a new solution. Therefore, that is another reason to approach the adoption of this law now at the last minute. The next reason why, possibly in the first reading or today, a question can be asked, and why the list now passed, is not sufficiently regulated, especially those foreseen by sublaws. Well, of course, in the next period following the adoption of this law, this will be incorporated into sublaws which will then, together with this law, form a whole in application and this law is not able to regulate all cases. It therefore provides for the adoption of sublegal acts without now entering into the provisions of certain articles that regulate it. Then certain doubts were raised about the concession on works. It is simply not possible to install this law in view of the scope and phenomena that will happen in practice. Therefore, this area is also planned to be regulated by a new law which will then, in a more transparent, detailed manner, also address this issue of concessions on public works. And there may be doubts about small-time contracts, so-called "small works". They also, in this way, coordinate in some way if there is nothing to do with the impact of prices and, in part, inflations are also coordinated and increased in this way, which we believe is necessary at this time, given that it is necessary to express in the nominal amount of these works, that this way, in some way, has been coordinated at this time for those works that we believe we can, in practice, appear. Another detail that I overlooked in the introduction, and we saw, especially when spending state resources from the budget that in the existing law were not sufficiently regulated. The question of selecting performers or suppliers, as we will, for public procurement. We remember the very fine instruments to which these provisions were played, so ideally you couldn't choose the performer in 6 months. So if this happens eventually through the appeal procedure again, as it is now regulated then it has happened, and these are the remarks to the implementation of the budget at the end of the year when it happens that you couldn't conduct the selection procedure of the contractor or supplier in public procurement and that you actually lost the fiscal year. Because the possibility of realising some major or significant projects in certain segments. Here is what is trying to answer these questions right now, and in this way, in a way more transparent and quality to edit that area. And that is why we believe that this law offers new solutions. And the current law did not regulate, even regulated the issue of electronic auctions, which now solves the issue in a very good and better way. And it actually doesn't allow time to postpone for another period. For this reason, we propose and support the adoption of this law because it will answer these questions both broader and more transparently than the current laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94996	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to give his word? Yeah. Word. Final word, Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this heated debate in this law, I would just like to answer two doubts or the question that Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic said, so that it does not remain inexplicable. The criteria for selecting the most favourable offers are in two cases fully equal. If the tender indicates that the most favourable criterion is the price, then that is the only criterion. However, if it is also announced in the competition that they have some additional criteria other than the price, then when all this is stabbed together, it is the most favourable offer in the competition and should be made clear. The second thing is, why aren't concessions covered by the Public Procurement Act? For the simple reason that there are over 6,000 concession contracts in Croatia at the moment. Many rights, activities are regulated by concessions and it would not be good if they were regulated only by the Public Procurement Act. It should be given that it is a series of very important, so we can say strategic branches, then it is especially necessary to regulate it by special law. But what makes me particularly happy as Minister of Finance is that after finally 3 years of hard work we have managed to establish a concession register and today every concession on the Ministry of Finance website is publicly available to every citizen so that every citizen can see under what conditions and how someone has obtained a concession for a certain activity. I say three years of hard work. And perhaps this law was the same reason why the Republic of Croatia received much better assessments of the state of corruption than it was last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94998	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues, we're about to set a break for lunch by 3:00. At 3:00, we start with the Final Proposal for the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u94999	Final proposal of the Public Procurement Act. The amendments have been made. The government should vote after the deadline. Who's in favour of voting after the deadline for the amendments the government has submitted? Against? Restraint? There aren't many amendments, they're short. Comrade Kramarić, one moment. ... We'll vote with 91 for and 3 abstentions after the deadline. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95000	In Article 3(1), point 4 is replaced by the words "one" and the words "one". So, nomotechnically, it's a pronunciation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95001	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 92 amendments one adopted. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95002	In Article 36(5), the words "procurement notices" shall be deleted. Therefore, Article 13(4) states that the contracting authority may apply the negotiation procedure by prior publication or without prior publication. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95003	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 88 for, 4 against. Amendment two adopted. Amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95004	In Article 95(2), the words "point 3 of this Law" are amended and read as follows: "point 4 of this Law". In fact, due to the complex structure of Article 94, there was an error of reference to point 3 and there was actually a need to refer to point 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95005	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on Amendment Three. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with the 90th Amendment of the Third. Amendment four.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95006	In Article 172, paragraph 1(3) of the word "Article 13, paragraph 3" is amended and reads as follows: "Article 13, paragraph 4" again, as in the disputed provision there has been an incorrect reference to the provision of Article 13, paragraph 3, this amendment corrects the error.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95007	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 90 for you. Two against. Amendment adopted. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95008	In Article 175(2), it is amended and reads as follows: "The procurement procedure for goods, works and services for which contracts are concluded indefinitely are mandatory for the contracting authorities to implement within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act. The explanation is, therefore, that nomotechnically edits the expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95009	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of the Fifth Amendment? Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 88 for. Two against. Two abstentions. With that and the 5th amendment adopted. Amendments to the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95010	The government accepts all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95011	They become an integral part of the Law. And the amendments to the Committee on European Integration?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95012	The government accepts all amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95013	They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on public procurement. Who's in? Against? Restraint? With 85 for and 6 abstentions passed, the Public Procurement Act. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. - Final bill on environmental protection, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 680 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Spatial and Environmental Protection, Local and Regional Self-Government, European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Nikola Ruzhinski will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95015	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the final proposal for the environmental protection law adopted on 25 May 2007, the proposal was adopted. The Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government adopted this draft law, however, the Committee on Legislative Law and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection obliged the applicant to take all observations, proposals and opinions raised in the debate into account. In the preparation of the final proposal, we accepted all proposals and remarks specifically relating to the nomotechnical part, and most of the other proposals and remarks presented in the debate in this Croatian Parliament were accepted and entered into this Proposal. I would also like to point out that we have also received quite a number of objections from NGOs dealing with environmental protection and we have taken these remarks into account when considering and a large part of these remarks have been incorporated into this Act. One of the most important parts of this Act are numerous conventions, provisions of international agreements and all those protocols in the field of environmental protection, which have been adopted 13 years ago since the old Law, as the Convention on the Assessment of the Impact of Cross-border, Assessment of the Effects of Industrial Accessors, Access to Information, this Croatian Assembly has ratified... The Convention is an extremely important UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, a Protocol on Strategic Assessment, etc., this is all the newspapers that are in our Law for the first time. The basic issues raised here may be among the most important principles of environmental protection and sustainable development. So for the first time in our legislation there is a problem of sustainable development, a development that must be based on environmental protection but also a basis for possible development and protection of the environment from adverse impacts. The law specifically deals with all environmental protection entities, implementing instruments, information system, monitoring, liability for damages, also contain infringements and criminal charges. The consequences of the adoption of this Act are one of the significant steps towards the approximation of legislation, legal property and environmental management on the principles of sustainable development. So, the paper is a strategic change and one of the most significant newspapers is the united environment protection conditions that come into the community with other laws, so the link to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is discussed on the issue of a valid permit. In addition to this applicable authorisation, the conditions of environmental protection are also issued in accordance with this law, which starts to represent one of the significant environmental protection instruments against large industrial energy facilities, so for the first time being introduced into our legislation, constantly monitoring the behaviour of large entities towards environmental protection, with the use of permission, the combined conditions of environmental protection that speak not only about the quality of the facilities but also about technology and behaviour in the production of energy or other production, so that these combined environmental protection conditions represent a changing part of the user's license, which may, if it is not respected, lead to the fact that a large production entity or energy could remain without the use of a permit in this part, which means that there are no necessary penalties that pay quite easily for those who do not care about the environment but remain without being able to continue to work temporarily or permanently. It is an extremely strong instrument that needs to be handled carefully, carefully in such a way that these entities do not come into some position that they have to be more burdened than necessary, but on the other hand they have to be careful about what they do and how they relate to the environment. We have, as I said, a stronger monitoring, so this law should lead to a safer system that protects and the environment including the nature of water, soil, human health, which is the basis for further development of legislation in the field of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95016	Thank you. The committees? For spatial planning and environmental protection, respected representative Marko Širac, chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95017	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as the home working body. The Committee has made written remarks on the final draft law of the Green Action, the Network of Environment Associations, the Green Forum and the Green Network of the Karlova County. After the debate was held, the Committee supported the bill's proposal by a majority of votes of 8 for and 1 against and proposed that the Croatian Parliament be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95018	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? For European integration? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95019	Mr. President of the Parliament, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. The Environmental Protection Act was passed in 1994 and laid the foundations of modern environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Following years of application of the Environmental Protection Act and its implementing rules, certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies have been seen to correct certain legal solutions. The need to complement the existing introduction of new legal solutions has also been identified, given that the Republic of Croatia is a candidate for membership in the European Union and that it has an obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union. Taking into account the fact that new legal instruments have been adopted at European Union level, i.e. existing directives have been novelised. The Republic of Croatia has adopted significant international agreements in the field of environmental protection requiring certain amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. It is primarily about the implementation of certain international agreements, i.e. conventions and protocols in the field of environmental protection. In addition, the Final Proposal for the Environmental Protection Act is also based on the specifics of the National Environmental Protection Strategy adopted by this Croatian Parliament during 2002. The proposed Environmental Protection Act provides a basis for the adoption of a set of implementing acts which will fully comply with European legislation and introduce new concepts from the legal acquis of the European Union. For the first time, this law regulates important issues in the field of environmental protection such as the full protection of environmental components and environmental protection against the harmful impact of burdens, environmental protection entities, sustainable environmental development documents, new environmental implementation instruments, environmental protection information systems, environmental access to environmental information and public participation in environmental issues, and access to justice. Liability for environmental damage and the threat of damage, financing and instruments of general environmental policy, as well as supervision of the application of laws, infringements and criminal penalties. According to our assessment, by passing this law, we will achieve the following. A significant step will be taken to align with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of environmental protection, to protect human health against adverse environmental factors. Sustainable development and environmental protection documents will set targets for the sustainable development and start-ups of the overall economic, social, social and cultural development and establish guidelines for environmental management and on the principles of sustainable development. So for the first time, this sustainable development is done in detail in our country. The creation of institutional conditions for the development and operation of new environmental protection instruments, such as strategic evaluation of plans and programmes, i.e. by appropriate strategic documents promoting sustainable development and providing frameworks for interventions for operators and enabling the inclusion of essential elements of environmental protection in decision-making. United prevention and control of air pollution, soil, water by large industrial plants and the establishment of a united approach to environmental protection in this regard, suffering and encouraging the administration of new best technologies, the prevention of major accidents involving dangerous substances and the binding of pollutants to ensure resources and environmental damages. The creation of legal foundations and the improvement of the conditions for inclusion in the European environmental protection system. The democraticisation of decision-making and public decision-making in addressing the environmental protection issue, which strengthens the public's position in accessing information in the environment and public participation in the process of making plans, programmes and concrete environmental decisions, and meets the requirements of the Convention in accessing information and public participation in judicial accession decisions in accordance with the Convention that the Republic of Croatia ratified during this year. As regards the specific provisions of this final draft law, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club has no significant objections because the applicant has respected most of our remarks from the debate on the draft law in the first reading. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this law. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95020	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95021	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We had a bill, a draft bill in the 5th month of this year when we discussed the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia with the proposed law in the first reading. What is most important, which was then pointed out I will only repeat in short, is that with the overall situation when it comes to natural resources and the state of the environment in its integrity, that in Croatia we can be satisfied, although in that part that is on municipal waste and waste management, as well as waste management, no significant results have been obtained. Only the government's mandate has made significant shifts in the sector. Otherwise, only care is the problem not only of Croatia but also of all former Socialist countries, transition countries, and today when Croatia also became a candidate for entry into full membership of the European Union, new requirements are imposed before the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and Croatian society as a whole. I believe that, in addition to this legal framework, there is a legal part to make a great and financial effort, to put it before all of us to respond to the demands given the financial resources to be allocated. Of course this is the Ministry and this government that except for the new one that's ahead of us today, that we've had a chance to discuss and we've passed a series of laws from the ecological sphere. I'll just mention some of them. It is the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, the Law on Waste, the Law on the Communist Economy, the Law on Air Protection, and it is certainly necessary to mention the strategy of waste management which has been hit by the foundations to bring these laws today and where we have defined the deadlines, time and method of waste management in the Republic of Croatia and the way it is used. Of course, this bill highlights the role of local self-government units. I would like to point out that in this term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given great support to the units of local self-government, mainly those who are more economically, economically inferior and who in their field could not take care of waste. I would only mention the case of Makarska where it was settled under these conditions and these occasions in a properly efficient manner. In any event, funds have been collected through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund over the last two years, and in this way Croatia is approaching standards in terms of environmental protection in its entire European Union countries. The very proposal for a law in Articles 7 to 18 sets out the principles of environmental protection. I would point out the three that are most important to me and that have far... meaning for us today, but also for generations to come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means the principle of sustainable development. It is thought here under the principle of sustainable and economic and social development, then the principle of environmental protection in its fullness and the principle of protection, the principle of contaminant pay already applicable in the Law on municipal waste and the Waste Act. The role of the units of local self-government, as I said, is certainly significant, mainly in the adoption of spatial plans. What's important is that we need to separate the work areas, so economic zones and residential areas. In this way, great financial effects are obtained in terms of the reduction of resources needed to effectively protect the environment in relation to wastewater, etc., but in this way we are better quality and we are solving the problems in the area of each unit of local self-government, and where the counties have their place. In any case, I support it, and I think that most of all colleagues will also support the adoption of this Bill proposal, and I would certainly once again point out that the Ministry and Government have, in terms of environmental protection over the past four years, here are almost four years that they have made significant shifts at Croatia's level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95022	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Nikola Ruzhinski if you'd like. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95023	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say that we have received amendments from distinguished representative Mark Shirtz and that we fully accept these amendments that are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95024	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Environmental Protection Act. The amendments submitted by MP Marko Širac have been accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 97 for, 2 abstentions. The law was passed with the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95027	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Very briefly in the introduction, this Final proposal does not make much difference compared to the proposal from the first reading. I would like to remind you that the amendment and addition of the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds has been made, this Law has been passed in this House, and has entered into force in July this year that the need for the completion and harmonisation of this Pension Insurance Society Act has been created. The European acquis, i.e. European Union directives governing equal treatment with men and women in structural social security systems, the preservation of the right to an additional pension for persons emigrating within the European Union and the establishment of a legal framework for the payment of pensions as part of additional pension insurance, is also implemented. We have also received amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law. Mr. President, allow me to read immediately about the amendments delivered. Therefore, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and, on behalf of the Proposer, may declare that we accept all the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95028	Thank you. The committees? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95029	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. In addition to this brief explanation and a brief indication of the proposal of this Act, which was indeed necessary as a supplement, it seems to me already two amendments to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Insurance, the funds so that it was certainly expected that, in that sense, changes in the Pension Insurance Companies Act would also be made to pay for pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings. There is no doubt that it is a matter in which we are still looking for solutions that will be on one side consistent with the initial reforms in the pension system and in line with our goals that as much as possible stimulate pension savings as possible, and in that area which is obvious, and even from this data, it is still not at that level or level that would be desirable. In fact, most of the pension systems in the countries we love and compare with, which has a two-part pension insurance system, actually only has this voluntary insurance as a second pillar. We have the fact that in the second pillar, therefore, in compulsory pension insurance with a million and 300 thousand, 360 thousand people who are there, accumulated, with accumulated 20 billion already have a very significant and very respectable shift when it comes to pension insurance and when it comes to the funds that are in place for investment and investment, the more 91% of these investments have gone into domestic assets. But the state of voluntary pension funds still seems to me at the very beginning no matter how many such funds we have voluntary 16, which they have 103,000 members, which is not small. However, they do not have pre-respective assets from, according to this report, 625 thousand kuna and very different offerings, which was expected in the light of the market character on which these companies operate. I would certainly welcome these changes that are given here. I haven't been able to see the amendment committees now accepted by the government's representative. I've seen these HDZs. But in any case, the changes that are being offered here are improvements and compared to the legal gains of the European Union, but it seems to me to fill certain holes and certain illogicalities that we have had in previous legal solutions, so we are likely to see that this solves some of the problems that have arisen so far in practice. I believe that it is, in particular, changes in Article 1 to in any way stimulate desirable flexibility and to allow the use of a pension from a voluntary fund before obtaining the conditions for retirement, that in any case it is desirable to improve, more so in these first years in which we have few participants in voluntary insurance companies, that it will be very common situations. And it is good that this one predicts in some way changes in the problem, or that they are anacryptized by what is going to happen. It is certainly interesting to have these termological developments that introduce into our entire pension system and some new concepts. In a completely different way, they define them, so the concepts are, perhaps, a good distinction, concepts of pensions and pension programmes where a pension insurance company is made rules for pensions. And it refers to mandatory insurance. And it makes a distinction in terms of voluntary insurance where the rules for pension programs are spoken of. It is a distinction that is not bad in any case and is taken over to me from the legislation of the European Union. Equivalence of family pension beneficiaries in Article 8 proposed by compulsory pension insurance guarantee solidarity, individual capitalised savings is also welcome to improve, thus moreover, as explained in this article, there is a special effect and an effect for children over the age of 18 who are regularly educated as well as for those who are permanently incompetent to work. In any case, I believe that the alignment of these solutions with those that we anticiptise and as our obligations that will follow by entering the European Union is welcome, but apparently the work of these amendments is not done and it is expected that we will have to coordinate and future how only pension insurance that our legal provisions have now said would be a good place for the future. Therefore, the SDP club supports the amendment and addition of the Pension Insurance Companies Act and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95030	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95031	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another law that in some ways continues to improve our pension system in a quality way, a long process that has been going on for years. As we know, the pension system has been successfully reformed. There are also the recognitions of numerous foreign and independent factors. He's also financially stabilized. Its share in the total expenditure of the state, by the percentage count, has been reduced for several years, and with pension funds undermining all their liabilities, which is certainly a positive sign. But, of course, the insertion of such a complex system and its arrangement may be errors that need to be monitored and that should be corrected by legislative methods such as this one, which should be corrected in financial terms as they were. New pensioners, etc. So in this complex arrangement of this complex system, the ministry has also staged these amendments to the law. As we know, three are basic pillars. One is fundamental and the first pillar is based on social intergenerational solidarity. Others based on pension societies. Also the third. The first is mandatory, the second is voluntary. They are governed by a number of laws, of course. One of them is in sync now. This is the Pension Insurance Companies Act and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings. As is known, our legislator in this reform separated those companies that manage pension funds from those companies that pay out pensions from a mandatory and voluntary pension fund. Here we find ourselves changing laws that harmonize these two laws fundamentally. These two laws are fundamental, these are the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds which regulate the collection and capitalisation and the Pension Insurance Companies Act, the payment of pensions on the basis of capitalised savings. It's not about laws that wouldn't matter because, as we know, these funds are now managed by more than 20 billion kuna assets. We know that the rate of their profit is yearly, moving somewhere between 5 and 8%, and therefore any change to this law must be carefully studied and carefully discussed. We have two types of harmonisation of the law that we're talking about. One is to comply with other laws governing our area of pension insurance, and another to comply with European Union directives. The HDZ representative club supports this law because the changes are of high quality, I will list only some of them. These amendments and additions shall regulate provisions on equal treatment with users regardless of gender, which shall be incorporated in Article 9 of these amendments to the law under the European Union Directive. Also, users will be able to manage what they have provided regardless of whether they are located in the Republic of Croatia or in the country of the European Union. The proportions of related persons are increasing from 5 to 10%, in this area I will also present an amendment to the club of representatives that has already been discussed. The part that belongs to the remuneration for working in those mandatory funds must be limited but within that limit it should be possible for the funds to carry out their normal function. A number of new improvements such as improvement in the achievement of family pensions, the obligation to conclude contracts with users and family members in Article 10, the obligation to coordinate six months of payment of compulsory capitalised insurance with the cost of living in Article 12, etc. By supporting all these amendments that will certainly be further regulated by the system, we, as a representative club, are applying the amendment to Article 22 in the sense that this amendment proposes the possibility of increasing the maximum percentage of the insurance company's fee from the mandatory pension fund from 5 to 10%, with the decision on the maximum fee being made by the agency for each year in particular. The explanation is based on an independent analysis of the board of the Croatian Actuarial Society, which would allow insurance companies to function at the initial stages of the fund and sometimes have to be more than 5%, so users will not be discontinued and the normal function of the system will be enabled. That is why we believe that this amendment further improves these amendments and amendments to the law. Overall, with such amendments to the law, we must sum up everything this government has done to improve the status of pensioners not only in this organisational but also in financial terms, so I would remind once again that the fourth war of pensioners, the second war of family pensions and the first war of new pensioners is being paid. With this emphasis, we can congratulate the restoring ministry, support these changes and expect also good news for the pensioners in the same composition of this ministry in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95032	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95033	Thank you very much. Mr. President, members of the government. I also join those who will support this amendment and the addition of the Pensions and Insurance Companies Act on the basis of individual capitalised savings. So this is as said in the previous members who have discussed this, this is just one course of improvement of these pension laws. In the spring of this year we had fund laws, now we have insurance companies. So, it is going to improve the efficiency of the system, to normally ensure the stability and sustainability of the system and some newspapers have been introduced in order to better specify this concept of additional pensions, family pensions, this equal legal approach in relation to sex, which is also valid in the European Union countries, to increase the percentage in this case of related persons from 5 to 10%, so all in the sense that in some way, the second and third pillars are dynamicized, where we still see that it is voluntary, the third pillar that there are still a small number of users, only 103 thousand members, are being introduced there to be more control over these closed funds, etc. The union. And all in all, I believe that these proposed changes are going in terms of improving the system, so it is not only in compliance with our laws that are valid but also with the directives of the European Union and all in order for pension fund users or pension societies to be better served, to be safer in their roles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95034	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings. The amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ were accepted. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 92 for, 5 against and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95037	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section will cease on 4 October 2007. The government estimates that there is still a need to assign a legislative delegation to it for the adoption of regulations on the basis of legal powers but in this case limited only in the period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet regularly and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or when its term of office has expired. Accordingly, the government is proposing an emergency law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95038	The committees? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95039	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will indeed support this law. This is one of the classic laws we make every year. In this respect, Article 87 of our Constitution provides that the Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for a period of one year, to regulate certain issues from its part-line, except those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, part-line and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. Regulations under the legal authority shall not act backwards. Regulations shall cease to apply on the basis of the legal authority within a period of one year from the date of receipt of the power granted unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. So here we have a situation that we have a law that expires at the beginning of next month and there really is a need, because, as we know, elections are coming. There will be a disbandment of the Parliament. Then, from 15 December to 15 January, it also took a break, and from 15 July 1008 to 15 September 2008, the Assembly did not meet. Therefore, in that time it is necessary to exercise and transfer legislative power from the Croatian Parliament to the Government, which hopefully will use its authority rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95040	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? My colleague Dorothy, where have you disappeared? ... With 91 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions, passed the proposed law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95043	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the application of the Law on civil servants, the need to regulate certain issues related to the admission to the state service of persons selected for scholarships on the basis of a public invitation to grant. As a rule, it is a post-graduate specialist study in the field of European integration and European law. It is a similar situation that should also address the issue of resolving the status of a person who, based on a public tender, has been referred to by some national authorities for further education. In fact, we have now had a situation that people who were granted scholarships after and on the basis of this contract had a obligation to work and to work their way into state bodies after that schooling should be invited to open a tender for the completion of the job, which is proposed that such persons, meaning that the basis of the public tender was the grant of state bodies that after the completion of the study, no invitation to tender for admission to the state service should be opened. The following paper is also more precisely to edit and amend the law that allows progress on the basis of the quality and impact of the work of the employees because the current system has been relatively complicated and imposed the obligation of an internal advertising to fill the vacancies. And the latest newspaper is in fact, since government authorities are particularly concerned with the accession of the European Union in this period, and it has a share of officials who have met the conditions of 65 years to retire. This law suggests that when the service needs to be imposed, the state service can be extended for the longest two years by a special solution. This is why it is proposed to pass this law, which has otherwise been regulated by the Government's Regulation on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95044	Thank you. Clubs, committees. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95045	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 90th session held on 26 September 2007 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 19 July 2007. The Committee discussed the law referred to above on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee also made comments in the debate on the text of the final draft law on the compliance of its provisions with the provisions of Article 44. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the committee voted by a majority, 7 votes in favour and one vote against the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95046	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95047	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, as it is a law governing the legal status of workers, the relationship between civil servants and the state as an employer on the one hand, the admission to the state service, the classification of jobs and the promotion of civil servants, and other issues of importance for the exercise of the rights and obligations of civil servants. In view of the view that the proposed solutions concerning and above all specify the way in which the public administration posts are filled in, di, it is determined that the solutions already established are complemented by the solutions already set out in Article 90. The Law on civil servants so that progress in the state service is further precise and becomes fully one of the institutions of filling jobs important for the quality of the performance of official duties, official duties and therefore we propose and therefore also agree with that di we propose the possibility of admission to the state service without public tendering of persons who were obliged to work for a certain time in the state body. We think that the progress that is planned in this way and that it can be introduced now by new, i.e. because two new terms are being introduced regularly and exceptionally accelerated progress and regulation of conditions for this also for the purpose of improving the work and quality of employees. We think that such an adjustment of the issue of admission to the state service of scholarships, the process of progress and the possibility of retaining in the state administration of officials because of the exceptional needs of the service is what will contribute to a better quality state service and to better quality civil servants for whom the state service could tell cry, or never enough in the state service. For all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95048	Thank you. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95049	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on civil servants. It is a very short text that contains such solutions and proposals that express the intensities of the basic law that is fragmentally changing, which is that the state service is trying to make it easier to make available and more attractive, materially, statusally and professionally attractive, which has always been a problem but also the aim of the legislator to achieve in the state administration. Furthermore, this is also about the solutions that follow another intensities of the basic law, which is the correcting of the injustices imposed on civil servants in the law passed for the term of office by the Government when a large number of officials were a reduction of wages, and in the system of reception in service and career advancements was rigid and non-transparent. Also, the basic law in the Amendments and Supplements Bill proposal is the result of the aspirations and efforts to create assumptions for the status, staff and material improvement of the state administration through the necessary changes contained in the Bill's proposal in amendments and additions whose basic tasks are the precise definition of all ambiguities in relation to the reception of persons in working relationship and enabling civil servants to advance on the basis of education, knowledge, expertise, ability and culture of work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on civil servants aims to achieve the next objective. A clear and unambiguous premonition of the way in which jobs are filled in the state service with the purpose of ensuring the legitimacy of the procedure. The proposed admission to the state service without a public tender of persons under grant by the State of Article 2 shall give students an interesting insight into a number of aspects of public service work and irreplaceable, practical experience is necessary and desirable in future work, as well as a recommendation in future employment. The spirit of that example also needs to define the status of persons referred to in further education, i.e. requalification. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements is proposed to amend Article 90. The Law on civil servants sets out the conditions for the promotion of civil servants. Positive experience in applying the conditions of regular progress so far shows that it is excessive to carry out an internal tender except in situations where there is no adequate specialised expert in the state body. As regards exceptional progress, the Government Regulation allows for the promotion of workers with less employment, but also with excellent results achieved, as well as the degree of education beyond the demand. Article 4 allows temporary, for a maximum period of 2 years, the detention of a staff member who fulfils the conditions for retirement in the state service due to exceptional circumstances relating to the work he has performed. Both collectively and in conclusion, it can be said that by supporting the proposed urgency of adopting this Act of Amendments and Supplements, we are taking another step towards the overall improvement of the state service and of each individual in it, which should certainly be felt in the greater quality and efficiency of the implementation of administrative tasks, which is ultimately the aim of the promoter, as well as the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95050	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants. The amendments were submitted within the deadline by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 67 votes in favour, 21 against and 10 abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. In this proposal, amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families propose amendments to two articles, Articles 2 and 82 of the existing Law. In Article 2, the amendment is that Croatian defenders who joined Croatian military and police forces by October 8, 1991, i.e. by 16 December '91. in the year, they died and did not meet that legal requirement for obtaining volunteer status and all rights resulting from this 100 days or 30 days of this amendment acknowledges the status of a Croatian volunteer, or their families and all the rights resulting from this, which is not the case with the existing Article of the Law. Also in the 82nd family of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, family pension benefits were reduced by 15%. So it is proposed to amend this article in the sense that these family benefits are not a reduction of 15% but as well as family pensions behind the death of Croatian defenders. Namely, the former, the previous law was so regulated, and that provision was transposed into the provisions of the new Law because a pension tax was introduced at the time, so pension fees were reduced by 15% in order not to be more than pensions. At the time of the adoption of the Income Tax Act, and this provision still existed, we therefore propose to abolish this provision on the reduced amount of 15% since the Income Tax Act also deletes the tax provision on the taxation of pensions of families of victims of Croatian defenders. To implement these amendments, it is necessary to provide a million and 625 thousand 296 kuna in the state budget for 2007, and 8 million 201 thousand 184 kuna is required for implementation in 2008. So that's the essence of the amendment to this law, and I hope this distinguished House accepts this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95054	Thank you. The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Honored Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95055	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 30th session held on 27 September 2007 the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 2 August 2007, with a proposal for the proposed law to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee does not object to the adoption of an emergency procedure law, nor does the law proposed on the day of its publication in "The People's Journal". The proposed amendment and addition of the law enables the equalisation of the amount of the monthly family pension, members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War who has not been exhumed and identified with the height of the monthly family pension, members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender, i.e. the status of volunteer from the Homeland War to Croatian defenders who lost their lives by 15 January 1992, if the defences of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia have joined the Croatians by 8 October 1991 at the latest, i.e. by 16 December 1991. The deadlines shall be prescribed for the purpose of meeting the conditions of 100 days, or 30 days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the event of death. A three-month period for the translation of rights under the provisions of this law is also prescribed. In the debate that followed, the problem of restoring the difference created with the basis of the 15% lower amount of family pensions, members of the family of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defender compared to family pensions of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The difference in the amount of these incomes lasts from the amendment of the Income Tax Act, i.e. the elimination of income tax for family pensioners. The members of the Committee, as well as most of the present representatives of the Associations of Homeland War, welcomed the proposed amendments and additions because they favour the families of the dead and imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, but also stressed caution against creating new problems and misunderstandings among the defenders themselves. It was also stressed that these amendments and additions should be addressed and the problem of the translation of pensions of those Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who retired according to the general regulation, and before the entry into force of the applicable Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95056	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95057	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers in Articles that speak of both volunteers being declared and all those who have died and have not reached that assumption which was 100 days or 30 days spent during a certain period of time which spoke of volunteer status. Namely, this law corrects what was an obstacle to obtaining... status and gives rise to the right to compensation resulting from the status of volunteers itself. The Croatian Democratic Community club actually supports the second amendment that speaks of the elimination of the difference between the compensation that belonged to the prisoners and the missing and the fatalities so that there will be no more 15% difference in the incomes of those who are being held captive and missing and there will be no possibility of manipulating them as one has, and others, since we know that most of those who are being asked are also, the only question is when they will be exhumed and found, and not to speculate about their incomes, i.e. by receiving their family members. We can say that these improve the status that has been unpredictable in the legal, previous legal ratios released and that further improves the status of the dead as well as the families of the members of the prisoners and the missing. On the proposal, in fact, the association of prisoners and missing with the support of all associations that came from the Homeland War, and as we have heard, with the agreement and unanimous support of the War Veterans Committee, we believe that this law and these amendments and additions to the Law bring about a better improvement for those who have really earned the most in creating the defence and liberation of Croatia's homeland, and especially for volunteers as well as for family members imprisoned and missing. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports these amendments and additions to the laws to correct these petty doubts that have been in the current legal assumptions. I believe this will benefit all those who have contributed most to the creation and release of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95058	Thank you. An individual debate. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95059	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely these changes and additions in this Law on Defence and Family bring about the fulfillment of actually the conditions they have not had so far. To remind ourselves, in the existing legal provision, the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in the period until January 15, 92 were unable to achieve the status of volunteers of the Homeland War, if they had not met the condition of 100 days and 30 days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and their family members could not exercise the right to the death-indicator of the Homeland War, and for this very reason these legal decisions would result in the recognition of the status of volunteers from the Homeland War to Croatian defenders who died in the period until January 15, 92. In accordance with the conditions for access to defence by 8 October 1991 at the latest, i.e. by 16 December 91. This volunteer status would be recognised as a deadly Croatian defender if it were not for the 15th of January 91, counting on the day of the start of the defence participation, it would have been for a 100-day or 30-day defence participation, since it was interrupted by the death of the victim in compliance with the 100-day and 30-day defence conditions, respectively. This Law also equalises the rights of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of the families of the missing or imprisoned Croatian defenders, which surely requires the urgency of passing these amendments and supplementing the Law because it is about families who have lost their children, their loved ones. I would not further explain because my colleague Djakic explained in detail so I would conclude and point out what is important to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided financial resources in the budget for the implementation of these legal provisions amounting to a million 625 thousand 296 kuna for payment in October, November and December. But the future government is tasked with ensuring for the same purpose for 2008 8 million 201 thousand and 184 kuna, and for 2009 it is necessary to secure in the state budget 8 million 501 kuna 181 thousand kuna for the implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95060	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95061	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have in this mandate had more amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Defences and the new Law on Croatian Defences, which was adopted on 30 November 2004 where they were indeed comprehensive in their efforts and resolved the issue of Croatian defenders, gave them back their dignity but also improved their material position and material security. I certainly support these amendments to the law of Article 2 where opportunities are acquired, the status of the injured volunteer from the Homeland War for all who unfortunately died and did not meet 100 or 30 days in defense of sovereignty. This is also an important change and it is 350 families who have been imprisoned and missing who have so far had a 15% pension and we know how many of these families suffer, and how much they are really in a difficult position until their loved ones are found and until the issue is resolved. Here it is interesting to note that the Law that has already entered into force since 7 November 2001 means immediately at the beginning of the former government, where families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War are immediately... to reduce their pension by 15Z% and to introduce tax. Normally, by amending the law, it is neither taxed nor taxed by Croatian defenders, and this is how that pension will be equalised and will not have to wait for this painful moment of identification or exhumation. I would like to remind here of some more questions of Croatian defenders who have successfully resolved, this law on Croatian defenders is particularly important, we think that it is too little emphasized and too little to know, it is the right to an age pension, often the people who have been killed, the wounded have become ill, and so have a resolved question, while those who have had the good fortune of coming out of the war alive and healthy had no way to say any good. This right of retirement enables them to have 10 to 30% depending on the length of participation in the defense of the sovereignty of the country. I also find it important to consider the Institute of Disability Pensions because I know in my profession that there was a lot of professional work incompetence where then these fees are much less than the general disability, because of the general incompetence means here and this introduced possibility, and what I find particularly important is this lowest pension. The Institute of Minimum Pensions, which will indeed resolve here is the question of all those who have not on the other hand gained a pension to have that pension, which is 40% of the average salary of all employees in the previous year, these are all really important improvements that we are not talking about the Croatian Defence Fund and the Scholarship Fund. I am particularly pleased that the issue of our brigade has been resolved in the County of more than 1,000, and I really thank you once again to everyone who participated in this, but I have met myself and I have been contacted by defenders who were minors and participated in the war, normally then led by patriotism and courage, and now they are either wounded, or diseases, and they have come to me in terms of health care, I think I don't know what number I'm not familiar with, I only know those who spoke to me, so I believe that in some future period this Ministry, which truly comprehensively cares for Croatian defenders, will find the answer and for that part of the outstanding questions. Once again, I support these amendments to the law as well as all those so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95062	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95063	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Law would allow recognition of the status of volunteers from the Homeland War, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 15 January 92, with the condition that they joined the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia no later than 8 October 1991, i.e. no later than 16 December '91. the year, i.e. this status where the death-sufficient Croatian defender was admitted if by 15 January '92. the year counting from the date of the start of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia had a condition of 100 days, or 30 days of participation in the defence of sovereignty, since the death suffered him interrupted, meeting the conditions of 100 days, or 30 days of participation in the defence of sovereignty. In view of the nature of the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, there are particular reasons for the adoption of the laws of urgency and for the entry into force of the law on the day of publication in the "National Journal" it is a matter of equating the rights of particularly socially sensitive groups and of members of the family of the Homeland War and of the family of prisoners or missing Croatian defenders, and it is proposed that this Bill be discussed and accepted by an urgent procedure uniting first and second reading. The proposal for the entry into force of the amending and supplementing law on the rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families is also for the purpose of the proposed law. The aim of the law is to urgently equalise the rights of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. As regards the stated objective of the law, it should be borne in mind that the procedures for the translation of the law cannot be terminated in a short period of time, and the subsequent entry into force of the law would extend the duration of the law enforcement procedure provided for in this Act. In Article 1 of the envisaged recognition of the status of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War who defended the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia during the period of 15 January '92. A year. Article 2 provides for the right to cash compensation for monthly family pensions to members of a imprisoned and missing Croatian defender without a reduction of 15%. Article 3 provides that the pension rights of members of the family of dead volunteers from the Homeland War Article 1 of this Act and the right to monthly cash compensation referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall be translated in accordance with the provisions of this Act within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. This Law still slowed justice, but satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95064	Thank you. Final review. Would you like some? No, I don't. I am concluding this debate and this agenda item. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95066	Dear Mr. President, in order not to ask for a break on behalf of the club, I suggest that the vote on this law be postponed for the sake of injustice which is not corrected again by those Croatian defenders who retired under the general rules before 1.1.2005 when this law came into force and those who, according to the interpretation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, cannot exercise the right to 45% means the lowest pension. There are many such Croatian defenders, they think there is injustice. The government has twice promised, the Deputy Prime Minister publicly to correct the injustice. Among them is Zeljko Mrcela, famous for that statement, "Both of them, both of them, have fallen!" This morning, a huge number of such persons called me again, and I cannot understand such discrimination, and I suggest that the vote be postponed, and that the amendment is finally regulated by the government. It's not a lot of those people, but we have to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95067	State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95068	Of course, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law when it is passed is profuturo, so for cases that will take place from the moment of entry into force of the law, possibly what Mr Kovacevic said, should have been presented when the debate on the adoption of the law was held for the first time. So I don't think there's any particular reason to respect this proposal at this time, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95069	Ten-minute stop. Okay. We'll go back to the other laws, and then I'll take a break. And now we would still have what was the final proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. You suggested a break for the club. What do we do now? ... Can you do it now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. On behalf of the Club, representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95071	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to explain briefly what this is about. Why were we looking for the HSP Club break? This is about the minimum pension institute that we have introduced by passing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. The Law was adopted in 2004, and entered into force in 1.1.2005. And now an injustice has been made against those Croatian defenders who retired before 1.1.2005, according to general rules, whether they went into disability, whether they went into retirement compared to Croatian defenders who went into old age or disability pension after 1.1.2005. Why? Because those who went into retirement before 1.1.2005, for example in 2003 and 2004, do not exercise the right to a minimum pension. While those who left later exercise the right to the lowest pension. I have spoken on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights two three times to the Deputy Prime Minister. She didn't even know about the problem. She said, "We have to make this right. That is indeed an injustice." There is Mr. Djakic and others who are from the Committee on War Veterans who know about the problem. They probably call you Croatian defenders, too. I've got this letter, a lot of letters I'm not going to read to you. Therefore, we do not require retroactive use. What the Secretary of State says is obvious that it's not even... problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We ask that this provision of Article 31, paragraphs 1 and 2 begin on the date of entry into force of this Act to be amended and complemented to all Croatian defenders who have retired before the first year of 2005 and who, unfortunately, cannot exercise the right to a minimum pension as other defenders can. I think we can do so much, and that is why I continue to plead that the government postpones the vote until the next vote, the vote at the session and gives the amendment in this form. It's not a large number of people. This morning I was called Mr. Zeljko Mrcella and four, five others. From the group Željko Mrčela: "Both of them have both fallen." It is not clear to him either. Yeah, from the group, from the group. [[The intruders don't understand.]] There is, and this one died. But that means, in fact, taking responsibility and proposing that the Government intervene with the amendment and then hold a vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95072	Thank you. The Prime Minister has shown himself on this proposal and disagrees. We're going to the vote. Who's up for this bill? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 82 for, 4 abstentions, the proposed law together with the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. We move to the next point – 30. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 764 The Proposer of the Law is the Government, an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. Further explanation of the proposal, Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95074	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The process of reforming land books and catastras in the phase is to complete a number of key activities in the establishment of a modern real estate register system, and the reform of land books and catastras in its content contains several components, primarily bringing land-based registers into the state of day-to-day awareness, which implies solving all backlogs in land-based books, carrying out the transfer of professionally-run land-based books into digital form, establishing a land-based database, i.e. a common information system that would link the land-based database and the database of digital catasteric plans and carry out the harmonisation of catasteric and land-based data at the country-wide level. The dynamics of the implementation of the project required, among other things, and required the rapid harmonisation of the legal framework in certain segments of land law, which is the reason why the Law on Land Books is experiencing a higher number of novels over a shorter period of time. In this context, with the last amendment of the 2004 law, these proposed measures were wanted without major interventions in one of the well-conceived laws to install all that is necessary in order to function new institutes in the land register system, above all EOP books. The proposed amendments to the law on land books contain only the necessary changes to ensure, above all, the acceleration of key processes in the work by reducing certain legal deadlines that are no longer necessary for the protection of the interests of land-holders of land-licensed rights, the erasure of old non-current mortgages without any specific procedure which would further burden courts with new cases, the implementation of a harmonised land-based and cadastrian state and for parts of the cadastrian municipalities and the provision of their transfer to the land-book database, of course all for the purpose of efficiency and acceleration. More rational use of the powers of authorised land-markers in the process of refurbishing and setting up land-books and judicial advisers in the UK through proper procedures. The definition of the new common information system established by the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 25 August 2006 and all the proposed changes are solely on the trail of the creation of an up-to-date land-book court to ensure the principle of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of the land-book, as well as the creation of a framework for the establishment of an EOP land-based book and the establishment of a land-based database is proposed to adopt laws by emergency procedure in order to implement as quickly as possible, and all in order to speed up the resolution of land-based subjects. Amendments submitted by the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee which are entirely nomotechnical in nature are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95075	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95076	Thank you, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 58th session held on 26 September 2007 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 23 August 2007. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the proposed amendments create a legal framework for an effective reform of land books. The aim is to achieve the up-to-dateness of the land-based court, the transfer of hand-run land-based land-based books to digital form, the establishment of a land-based database, the coordination of cadastral and land-based data at the country-wide level. Without debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95077	I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95078	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State! The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books. The segment of land books in our judicial system was indeed one painful point, and we all know how much the land books were abandoned. We all know how many years it took for the court land-based bookmaking procedures to register property rights, how many people actually needed and how many people had problems when they had a loan in the bank to write down a mortgage, to write down and to make the loan real. In this term, I think we can, with full right, say that we have done a lot in the segment of land-book law. We've done a lot by amending the law once and making it possible to speed up the land-book process, by giving authority to land-book reference officers to solve in land-book things. That's what led to the fact that objects are now significantly, significantly better dealt with. The second thing we've achieved is what land books have been manually run. We all know we still have those manuscripts from Austro-Hungarian. We slowly translated that into computers. So we got digital land books. And now I'd say by this law we're going to get into fifth gear. With this law, we're going to speed things up even more because this law is going to achieve and we're going to coordinate the land-book situation with the catastral state. That's very important. Because the catastre was always more up-to-date. Catastar also followed the property. Catastar also followed the shape of the property. Land books were a little slower and therefore there is one big difference and a discrepancy between land books and catastras. Now, this law is exactly what we want to achieve to change that, because now we have a situation that the entire catastrian municipalities are harmonizing with the catastrian opera, and it's a little longer procedure. And as you can predict and see, we have quite a lot inside the catastrian municipalities we have a lot of land-book particles that are already harmonised and that match those particles in the cadastre. It is this law that enables us to go to coordinate individual particles in a particular catastrian opera, and that will actually achieve one important speed where what is undeniable, we will coordinate the cadastre with land books, and what we would say about that second final stage remains what is disputed. The very important thing in this process is that we give authority again. We don't have enough of course people to do all this, but we give power to officials, to refer to judges working on these cases. It's also a very important thing here, we're getting rid of those mortgages. What was piled up until '58. For years, without conducting any strict and large procedures. Now the court will be able to delete it on official duty. So I think with full right and full pride we can say that in the segment of land-book law we have done a lot. The Croatian Democratic Community club also supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95079	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95080	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So any law that leads to the improvement of relations and enables citizens to solve their problems more easily and more quickly, or in the function of citizens, is welcome for us, and so is the one that will support the SDP club. Of course, we are perfectly aware of all the problems faced during the past period as one of the almost most painful points or the most painful throat in the implementation of all these requirements that individuals had in solving ownership relations and as my predecessor said, it is good that this painful point is at least a little reduced. We have given power during previous amendments to the laws to land-based book references so that as top experts, we can do a significant part of the work from our own circle, so we have also increased the passivity and allowed us to come to this stage in which we are today. Of course, regardless of the shifts that have been made, none of us can be satisfied with the current status of the land book and the present state of things. And this fifth gear, as my predecessor said, where we are now, needs to be inserted into an even bigger turbo, turbo seven, to get to a large part of these huge jobs by 2010. Of course, it is unquestionable that our goal is common, that the life wish of each of us is to come into a position that land-book courts have daily updates, which means to solve still these huge lags, especially in large areas such as Zagreb, Split, Osijek or others. This is a lasting process, desirable and of course in the time ahead, and especially the next Government is very much to work on. It is good that a significant part of the existing land-booking data from analoguely is transferred into digital form, so it is possible to see all citizens, so if anything else can make an insight into their ownership situation, then, accordingly, react promptically and correct what is not good or what needs to be solved. I am sure that this digital transmission has also enabled us to have less corruption, and this has also contributed to Croatia's rating taking five more places. What will ultimately result in satisfaction is the situation when we come into a position that we really have harmonised land-book data with catastrian plans or catastrian data, or when we move completely to a real estate cadastre that not long ago we could only dream of. The established land-book database and what makes the upgrade is a common information system will certainly make a significant contribution to this goal. But I am sure that I share not only in the name of the club, thinking on behalf of all of you, that no matter how much we have done, we must not stop, we are not satisfied, and that we should perhaps further look for space so far, so that everything that has been done by the State Geodetic Administration, or by the regional Catastres, or by the land-change authority, all that has so far been made to bring this part of the business to an important end because it is obvious that, with all the efforts that have been done and which seem insufficiently done. And we at this point according to my knowledge, despite having measured over 50% of the state's agricultural land, so the state-owned agricultural countries only one half was carried out through land books. Or perhaps the second data, of a total of 150 or about 150 cadastrian measurements in the entire cadastrian municipalities of all of them 50 has been fully implemented, 70 is or 70 is in the phase of implementation and 30 is still waiting because we do not have enough referents, we do not have enough land-book judges who could carry out this procedure until the end or engage in the presentation of the cadastrian plans that are finished. We have absurd situations. Here, I'm going to take an example in Požega County where several catastrian municipalities that were measured and completed a complete measurement four or five years ago are still waiting so we have a double state or almost impossible state. One condition on the ground is the basis of this new measurement and in the land book and in the catastro, we have an old opera, so it's still a few plans. So the need to bring that part to an end as soon as possible is more than questionable. Therefore, it is not surprising that at this point we have only 10% of harmonised cadastrian particles with real land-book conditions or how we usually say harmonised particles. These solutions, which are now made possible by this law, will make a significant contribution to making all these measurements done or which are now being made to be implemented in a partial manner and thus will significantly increase this percentage and, on the other hand, increase the safety of all those, it is not only about state agricultural land but also about the properties that are private or any other property. Of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to really praise and colleagues from the State Geodetic Administration who have made it possible, with the support and financial nature of these governments, but also the previous ones to have technological opportunities, that we can also create a quality base of cadastrian plans and a quality base of digital plans, or create from these two bases a common information system that we have here and now where it has been implemented, almost in a matter of seconds, to come to an insight into both states. Of course, it is also proposed that this technology be made possible for both those authorities and those legal persons who work and on the affairs of state measurement and real estate catastra, and thus will allow this whole job to be accelerated even more quickly. To conclude, a significant step is offered by this law. It doesn't need to be stopped, it needs to make extra efforts. However, at the end of the term of office, I can also say the recommendations and the future government, regardless of which, to allow even more resources and staff to be made available on this trail to, or to introduce, the implementation of this law and this law to give as high quality results as possible. With support, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95081	Thank you. Minister, would you like a final review? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. I'm putting that bill to the vote. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 97 votes in favour, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95084	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here's a very short one. Because this year in the fire-fighting season, there was an increase in the number of fires caused by extreme negligence, and even with intent, we launched a procedure to amend the Fire Protection Act in that part of the increase in sanctions for the cause of fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95085	Internal Policy and National Security Committees? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95086	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Despite the shortness of this Proposal for a Law amending the Fire Protection Act, it is too important to highlight his newspaper and i.e. It is precisely by amending Article 49 of the applicable Fire Protection Act. Violent sanctions for purposely triggering fire are being tightened. The range of fines from 100,000 to million kuna and for non-performing offences ranging from 10 thousand to 50 thousand kuna. The ministry's obligation to keep records of persons who have committed a breach of deliberate arson has also been prescribed. In fact, the important part is just how to protect the security of property and people precisely by preventing people from being forced into additional responsibility, because too much damage in material, especially in human lives, is not in any way compensateable. I therefore believe that they will have an effective result and that we will indeed bring the fires to a minimum. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club also advocates such a proposal, and it will fully accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95087	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95088	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. This law, like the amendment of the Penal Code, actually solves nothing systematically. The sanctions are increasing, and we know what is the danger in the country of fire and of course the SDP Club will support the adoption of amendments to this law, regardless of what systematically solves nothing, because the tightening of penalties is one of the measures to reduce the occurrence of fires and explosions especially in the open space. But there is no problem in the Republic of Croatia that unfortunately has disastrous consequences not to mention what happened now. The causes of open-air fires are complex, so they can only be systematically solved, and these changes of the law are primarily conditioned by these fires and are thus tried to resolve. However, there is no solution to this. The Law on Forests and the Law on Agricultural Land should be harmonised. There is a discrepancy on the level of implementation of preventive measures on areas of state and private ownership as essential regulations governing this problem. These amendments to the Fire Protection Act do not address problems in the fire protection system, which is an essential element of the overall protection against fire and fire-fighting, as well as the rescue of people and property. The problems are complex, and one of the main ones is that the city, municipality and county are in charge of local and regional self-government as an independent organisation, and at the level of the state within the State Administration for Protection and Rescue with inadequate status given the importance and importance. The former coalition government has begun activities to systematically resolve protection and rescue under this authority. The Law on the Protection and Rescue and Designation of the State Protection and Rescue Administration has been adopted, which was intended to bring together matters of protection and rescue at the level of the multi-response MUP, MORH and to be a co-ordinated body for the preparation and resolution of major accidents and disasters. The Law on Protection and Rescue, which was passed, did not fully regulate and specify the distribution of responsibilities and responsibilities between state and local levels, maintained a high degree of centralised which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The formation of a state administration with the district offices has led to the creation of a large bureaucratic system that actually deals with itself, it is ineffective. One-off funds shall be spent on offices, official vehicles and shall intertwine competences at local levels. The existing regular services of fire, mountain service, emergency services, port captains, etc. As a rule, they are dissatisfied with such a system that we witness daily in the press because there is unnecessary interference in regular work, and what was expected in systematic resolution is lagging behind. Therefore, the system needs to be reorganised, coordinated with European countries. All the time, it has been untrue and manipulated that such a system has European countries. That is exactly the kind of system that no one has, but it is the work of incompetent people who are sitting at the head of the system. Fire as an essential element of overall fire protection should also be established as in most European countries, respecting the achievements and specificities so far. Systematic protection against fire, fire, protection and rescue and other laws and regulations, as it is an interdisciplinary activity, can lead to a reduction of the fires and any other dangers, i.e. to improve efficiency in the resolution of the fires and other events. The system at all levels can be run by competent people who are concerned with protecting and saving the system and who know the essence of the system regardless of what we are talking about today only about changes in the section of criminal provisions. On behalf of the SDP Club, I considered it necessary to say and these few of our views regarding solving the issues of fire and fire in the Republic of Croatia, and as I said these changes that the government has proposed as a club we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95089	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. She's gone. He's losing his word. Would you like some? Please. Yes, Secretary of State of the Interior Ivica Buconjic, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95090	Just a short future vote tomorrow is just to declare that I accept the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95091	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law amending the Fire Protection Act. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee has been accepted and put to the vote by the proposer. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 97 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95094	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You are therefore facing the Final Proposal of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. Here's to remind you that the academic name, the name of which is acquired by a person who graduates in pre-graduate and university studies, graduate university studies or postgraduate specialist studies. The professional name is a name acquired by a person who completes a professional study or a specialist, a graduate professional study, and the academic name is a name acquired by a person who completes a post-graduate university doctoral study. So this is about the law that we have assessed that we need to bring it to an emergency procedure for two basic reasons. The first reason is that there is a conflict between the four years already in force of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and so far the current Law on Professional Names and Academia adopted in '99, as amended in 2000 and 2003. That colitision should be removed. And the second reason for urgency is that the study according to the Bologna model started something before it had to in a significant number of our higher schools, and it had to by law 2,000, academic year 2005/2006. So we are now witnessing the fact that there are people who have completed their studies waiting to be assigned academic or professional names under this new law. I recall that the basic law, so the Law on scientific activities and vocational education is prescribed that three degrees of university study, so undergraduate studies, university studies, graduate studies, are also a university and postgraduate study that can be a doctoral or specialist. And when it comes to professional studies, it is about the first degree of professional studies and the possible second degree of specialist graduate studies. I remind myself of the completion of a pre-graduate university study, i.e. a pre-graduate university vocational study or the first degree of higher education at the university which generally lasts 3 or 4 years under this Act is obtained academic term: "university graduate". So it's about the first degree of higher education acquired at the university. I repeat, it gives an academic title as a university first-grader. There's an exception here. I draw your attention to Article 3. The law that when it comes to the technical scientific field of this proposal of the Law, we return the name of engineers to the title. We are doing this at the request of the profession, specifically the Croatian Academy of Technical Sciences, Technical Facultys and the whole part of the academic community, and I must say both the economies, so also those services, institutions and companies that are primarily intended for this frame. The requirement is unambiguous to return to the title and the term "engineer" along, and not instead of this Bologna, I would say the names that are left. Further, by completing a graduate study that can be integrated into a five-year study or can be continued for one year or two years at a previous pre-graduate study, which receives 300 points of the person generally obtains the name Master of the profession. Here are two exceptions, i.e. two exceptions. When it comes to study, about studying medicine, dentistry or veterinary instead of academic term: "magistar struka" is proposed, and this is also our tradition, the term "doctor" of the profession. And in this case, of course, it's about the name a person can use behind, not in front of his name and last name. The second exception here is this earlier term: "engineer" which is accompanied by, which is assigned to persons who complete the study in the field of technical sciences. In Article 5, the completion of a postgraduate university study, a three-year-old, can obtain a PhD in science or a doctorate of art. Of course this is, this is an academic degree. It is often used as a keybinding for which it stands quite precisely as an example used in front of the name or last name. And the completion of a post-graduate specialist study that can last from one year to two years provides the term "university specialist". With one exception, and the exception is the effort to avoid colitision, colitisia in medicine, dentistry and veterinary science, where the name and term exist as well as the term, so also the term "specialization". Something that, by sounding, is highly associated with a specialist study, which is carried out outside the academic community in the health system, specialization in medicine, dentistry and veterinary. In order to avoid this colitision here is acquired academic term: "master", as a master's mark of completed specialist study. So just here once again, the exception is in this area after the doctorate, let's say, the professions that are obtained by the completion of the degree's studies, he's in medicine six years old, a man who finishes his specialist studies can become a university but a master's degree, a master's degree in the profession, the profession in which he specializes. There are so many examples of academic names. When it comes to professional names, of course, it's about the second pillar of our binary system. At the end of the first grade of higher education, which, namely the first degree of education, lasts at least 3 years of study and can acquire 180 points and professional title: "expert graduate". And that's ladies and gentlemen, so I remind you of the first degree of higher education compared to something that we previously had called "higher professional preparation", "higher professional preparation". I warn you the "highest expert prepares" of this law becomes a higher education only, and that is its first degree alone, not a high professional preparation. I warn of the need to distinguish these terms. I repeat once again, the earlier "higher professional preparation" generally corresponds to the first degree of higher education. In situations where a person completes a study that lasts less than 3 years or is referred to in the language of points which earn less than 180 points, which is usually a two-year or two-year study. This person does not acquire that first degree of professional higher education, but acquires a professional name as an acceder. Not a first-timer, but an approacher, and it's a certain newspaper. Our Gentiles teach us that the term is good, that a person has yet to access the first degree of higher education, but here is the language and the number of points has not yet reached him, only access to it. Of course we're following the exception here in the technical field and here we're keeping the following name engineer. Your attention will likely be drawn to article 10, an article that discusses specialist, graduate, professional study. So also through a professional study that can be maximum five-year-old it is possible to reach a diploma, it is possible to reach 3 hundred points, 5 times 6, 60 by year, 3 hundred points and thus by the number of points professionally, the man who completed the professional study can be equal to the man who completed the university study, but the name is still others because the competences of the other and our absolute determination that and should be indicated on behalf of this difference because it is about the second competence. This is about a person who specializes at that level after his five-year study, but the term is a professional specialist, not a magistrate because these two components are missing which the university study has, which is the scientific and theoretical basis of that study. Missing as an obligation due to the orientation of this study towards applicability, according to expertise, according to faster employability. Let me say a few more words about the infringement provisions in Article 13 and they are proper, and there are also the monetary sizes that follow it and a few words about transitional and final provisions. The question arises and in public has raised a lot of attention to what has happened to earlier, previously acquired and diplomats, various academic and professional degrees. As you can see here we propose a system that follows competences, competences so knowledge, skills and others, competences perhaps in some narrow sense acquired by this study. It is imagined, and thus proposed in the law, that within a relatively short time period, the ministry make up instructions, and the rector's choir and councils of universities and higher schools make up an accurate list of previous and current study programmes, i.e. professional and academic degrees, which are obtained through the completion of that study. You are probably aware that the earlier law, the basic Act on Scientific Activity, is in principle prescribed that persons who have previously completed a four-year university study, i.e. the relevant professional study, are fully equal to those who will now receive that same degree in a five-year study, including the right to use an academic or professional name. Which is precisely the appropriate name will therefore be visible from the list, the name list of programs that these two bodies will do in a relatively short time, I said in accordance with the instructions they will make, which they will form within a short period of time, the ministry. That's it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95095	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95096	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law has been born for a long, long time. One, five, six years after the debate began. Well, I'd like to say thank you first, Professor. I'm going to take on the good nerves and the patience he had with one and another of these pillars in the academic community because it really was necessary, the pressure was all kinds of ideas. I've seen the first drafts of the law and how things were going. What has now come to me seems well and properly done. One balance was found, one part of the tradition that we wanted to preserve was preserved, we want to have engineers, so engineers stayed inside, one part of the tradition of doctor medicine, dentistry, veterinary. It would be a complete mess if they didn't get those titles now, so that's really done well. Why was this to be done, and why was it necessary to do so thoroughly? Because we have to change the whole software in our heads, each one of our own. We're still talking all together about a higher, high-end professional preparation, what is needed for this job, a highly skilled cook. Who's the high-tech cook? Is it the one who finished 3 or the one who finished 5? Is this the one from the expert, the one from college? It's not clear to people in their heads, including the secretary of state of the other ministry. I was recently on a committee, I think it was the Legislative Committee where a secretary of state asked me to, and where does this specialist now belong, is that high or higher expert preparing? It's not both, it's a specialist, and it's the only answer that can be given, which this law gives. Why does it matter? Because in the very near future, if we want to follow some trends that are quite clear and clear in the world why they are, we will have about 70% of students at professional applicative studies, and 30 percent of students at university scientific studies, so studies for those who will tomorrow create and actually manage society at various levels 70% of those who, for God's sake, will do high-level jobs. That dilemma, we're not the only ones with that dilemma. This dilemma has been tried to soften and solve in the west so that the former fach schules and former junior colleges and so, turned into something today called the university... the university of applied sciences, which is obviously what we call a university and so works. Such universities have triple these classical universities in the Western world. It is clear here who gets a new title by the new system and there is no answer which is VSS which is VSŠ according to the new system and it is good that there is no answer, that answer in this law is not needed, we need to forget that terminology soon. I'd have two comments about something that may not be explicitly said inside, which is implicitly understood and implies from what Professor Taker said, but which in practice could lead to, let's say, difficulties. In the title given by the graduate professional study, so five years in the professional study, 3+2 or 4+1 with 300 points as a master's degree at the university, a title is given to a specialist who can be written, can be written together with a previously acquired title. In the previous version, there was also a previous version of the basic law, which was written for the previous title, the explanation was that it was not a new level of knowledge but a specialization within the level of the first-rate, which is not a fact, because people change and occupations. You can be a first-rate engineer and then a professional management specialist. So go all the way to the new ladder. And here's the word: "can" says it's a new level of education. But what can be written with, and today there are people who write on the door a graduated engineer, a magistrate, a master doctor of science, a specialist and that one across the door. So everything can be written, the previous title can always be written, but it doesn't have to be written. Most of the time, people normally write that last title they got. I think it would be good to just leave it out, because it seems unnecessary. If it was a higher level of education, it was a simple fact that these popular... MBM studies in both Croatia and the world are a professional study at first. These aren't scientific studies, these people aren't going... they're just running the biggest companies in the world, and no one thinks they're being sent to a Ph.D. because they're definitely not scientists or have those ambitions. The large duty of the ministry should be to the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports to explain where the title falls under competence, primarily to explain it to state authorities. Namely employers, private employers are quite clear to them. They look at the program, they know what a man learned, and he doesn't care what title he writes, it's important he knows what he's doing. In the state service, it's not like that. The State Service works more formally, works at the level of such professional preparation, and now it would be crucial that these concerns do not occur in the ministries of others, and then it would not happen that in the specific legislative proposals that we receive here from different ministries we get a proposal that these and these jobs can be done by a man who has completed a university study I do not know at that and that university. It just doesn't exist anymore, like an idea isn't applicable. Article 14 also provides for free interpretation. It is said that the council of higher education and higher schools together with a rectorial farewell will make a list of those people, i.e. those professions, those professional titles from the previous system that completed professional studies, two years, two and a half years old, two and a half years old with six semesters of graduates, etc. So some will sort into the accessions, so below the first degree of higher education, and some into the first-graders. And well, it has to be done only by the council of higher schools to make that observation, I don't think it's good to keep it in too much of the government's instructions. I think it would be necessary to do a stronger act, a strong act of the type of regulation, something that is absolutely mandatory not to evaluate things superficially and not evaluate them with some kind of free appraisal. Of course, every institution for its programmes will argue that in two years they have actually mastered what needs to be mastered in three, but it was necessary to set some objective criteria that could actually be introduced to the academic community at this level of the expert study that there were simply no regrets and that some people do not find themselves in an unfavourable position following the fact that his dean did not negotiate strongly enough what could happen. The HNS club will support this law and consider it very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95097	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica who's not here. No more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95098	Final draft law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. The amendments were submitted by representative Zeljko Pavlic and the club representative of HDZ. State Secretary Free Taker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95099	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95100	HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95101	HDZ Representatives' Club, the amendment is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95102	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Other MPs, Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95103	Three amendments to Mr. Pavlic. The first amendment is not accepted by the Government, a brief explanation: Namely, the bill regulates only academic professional titles and academic degrees and their acquisition and use and the basis for its adoption is the basic, basic law, therefore, on the scientific activity and human education that regulates the field of human education. This law introduces a binary system and therefore, in accordance with Articles 69 and 73 of higher education, through all university and professional studies. The proposed amendment is not acceptable since the implementation of integrated expert studies is not intended by the abovementioned basic law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95104	We just need to work it out a little sooner. The amendment promoter is not a representative of Pavlic, we should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, no one. Second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95105	2. The amendment is also not accepted, a brief explanation: The proposal of the Law regulates only academic professional titles, academic degrees and yet I note the basis of this fundamental law. Studies are conducted through university and professional studies, and professional studies, unlike university reminders, do not have such a wide-ranging scientific theoretical component. Next, we note that the study programmes for specialist graduate studies are accredited just as a specialist professional study and do not allow a further line of studies in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95106	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one, thank you, has received the necessary majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95107	The Third Amendment is also not accepted, a brief explanation: The reason is that some studies were previously two years old, and today they are indeed three years old, and those who have completed such a study have the same competences as those who finish today's three-year study. There are also cases that a previous two-year study that people have completed today is not being conducted at all. It is precisely the reason why the provision of the Law states that the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools and the Rector's Assembly of Croatian universities will be jointly established and published in the National Journal a list of relevant professional studies and their shorts and according to the instructions made by the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95108	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 98 votes, the proposed law has been unanimously passed along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95109	We move to - Final proposal of the Ombudsman Act for persons with disabilities, second reading, P.Z. No. 648 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Social Policy and Health. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain this request? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence,... Mr. Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Based on the conclusions of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Committee on Persons with Disabilities held on 25 October 2004, a working group was set up to draft the Law on Ombudsmans for Persons with Disabilities. The Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion on 2nd session on 27th April 2007 of the draft Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and sent a proposal to the objector, proposals and opinions to prepare the final draft law. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, as well as by representatives in the parliamentary debate, and by respecting certain objections and proposals made by the Final Proposal of the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. Go on. The final proposal of the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities shall regulate the work and mode of work and the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Advocates for Persons with Disabilities and their Deputys. The Ombudsman protects, monitors and promotes the rights and interests of persons with disabilities under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and laws and acts independently and maintains the principles of justice and morality. It is important to point out that the Ombudsman appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of Croatia, that the Ombudsman has two deputies appointed and dismissed by the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Ombudsman, and that the Ombudsman and his deputies are the officials of the Republic of Croatia who are appointed in time of eight years and can be re-appointed. The Advocate shall take part in the process of drawing up draft draft rules relating to the rights of persons with disabilities and may also encourage the adoption of amendments to laws and other rules relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. It provides advisory assistance to people with disabilities and cooperates with associations of persons with disabilities and associations that act programically for the benefit of people with disabilities. The Advocate shall be empowered to propose, notify, warn and make recommendations to the competent authorities of the state administration, local and regional (regional) self-government and legal and natural persons to take measures to improve the situation of persons with disabilities and to request reports on the measures taken. The Advocate shall have the right to access the premises and the right to see how persons with disabilities who live, work or are temporarily or permanently situated with natural and legal persons and other legal entities on the basis of specific rules. Anyone may address the Advocates and submit a proposal to discuss matters with significant protection of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. The Ombudsman will also inform the applicant of the measures taken and the proposals to address these problems. The Advocate may not be called on to be held accountable, detained or punished for an opinion expressed and taken in the course of his war, unless it is a violation of the law by the Advocates representing a criminal offence. The Ombudsman also submits a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on his work, and has the right to submit specific reports when it deems it necessary. Professional and administrative affairs for the Ombudsman are carried out in the Attorney General's Office, whose head office is in the City of Zagreb. The Ombudsman may be appointed a Croatian citizen who has completed a graduate study of the social direction and at least ten years of work experience in the field of promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. The Advocate-General for Persons with Disabilities and his deputies will be relieved of duties before the expiry of the time for which they were appointed in the event of their own request and in the event of loss of Croatian citizenship, in the event of a general incompetence for the operation and loss of business capacity in the event of a criminal conviction. The funds for the work of the Ombudsman and his deputies and professional services are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. In total, 2.5 million kunas are foreseen. Here I can also say immediately that I have received an amendment from the Committee on the Legislatives of the Council of the Republic of Croatia on Article 8 and that means the Proposer accepts the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95111	Thank you very much. Do the committees want it? Reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But I would ask you first to secure peace and order in the assembly because I personally didn't hear a gentleman...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95113	.. 'Cause this is one topic that deserves our attention special, so please let's hear from your colleague and give it away. [[The speaker is not heard because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95114	Not only me, but I couldn't hear what Mr. Adanic was saying. So, I'm asking you a really little respect for Mr. Secretary of State and the subject we're talking about. But when I thought about how I would look back on the text of this law on behalf of the SDP club on the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, I was given a wide range of opportunities in view of the area that should be regulated by this institution for people with disabilities. But these days several newspaper articles and one television report have given a name and a name to my entire discussion. All that was regulated through domestic legislation and what the Attorney's Office should regulate has collapsed with the attempt of young man Antonio Milanovic from Zadar to enrol in the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar, the course of psychology or the decision of a professor not to give him access to the entrance exam in its accessible form or verbally. No law, no Croatian educational standard, no national strategy, and no minister and government institution has stepped into the protection of the right to the education of a young man with cerebral paralysis. How many more Antonija Milanovica are victims of a system that does not recognize individuals and his personal needs and are left to intellectual sizes like Professor Malenica to play God and determine who can study in a rigid system like our education and who does not. What Professor Malenica would say is that he happened to have Helen Keller, Slava Raskaj, Roosvelt,... and all the others who can't even fit into this text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would the government perhaps react then if by any chance these same people in Croatia had tried to enroll at this time? I think after this case, it is hypocritical to speak from the government's position on human rights when everything collapses on one case and no convention, declaration or national strategy is in force, and the ministries and the government are silent. And why would anyone react to individuals when you didn't react because of a two-and-a-half-year failure of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities. You haven't raised a question about the disappearance of several million kunas from that fund or where these money ended. You also did not respond after the removal of the right to compensation for the transport of children with developmental difficulties. You have not started any law with the process of equating the rights of persons with disabilities. You did not react when the Mandatory Health Insurance Act was passed, which lists persons with disabilities in property censorship personal disability and all social incomes. We believe in the SDP club that the introduction of the Ombudsman institution for disabled persons will encourage an investigation into restrictions and discriminatory barriers that limit the freedom of persons with disabilities in their full participation in society and take all necessary measures to improve the situation and raise the question of responsibility. I think someone should be responsible for this boy's case from Zadar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95115	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95116	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of a final draft law on the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. The justification for the adoption of this law stems, among other things, from the fact that this population's participation in our society is about 10%. I would point out and point out what is clearly presented and highlighted at the last European Forum for Persons with Disabilities and the figures relating to the European Union and how we know that we are at the door of the European Union, so that at the beginning of this debate, the data would be presented and presented. In addition to the adoption of this law, the data provided there are also. Persons with disabilities represent 50 million people in the European Union, which means about 10% of the European population and is said to be equivalent to the population of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary and the Netherlands combined. One of the four Europeans has a family member with disabilities. People with reduced mobility represent more than 40% of the population. People with disabilities in two to three times more unemployed than people with disabilities. Only 16% of those facing labour restrictions get some kind of support at work. Many people with disabilities are discouraged workers because they too and do not even try to join the workforce and join the field of work. Therefore, they are classified in one way as inactive. The higher the degree of disability, the lower the participation is in the workforce. People without disabilities almost twice as often come to a third level of education as people with disabilities. 38% of people with disabilities are between 14 and 34 years old, which means that they are young people. One of the two people with disabilities has never participated in the activities of the environment in which he lives, nor in sports activities. One third of the disabled population has never travelled abroad or even participated in daily trips, thanks to the inability to access terrain and services. People with disabilities suffer from isolation even though we compare people with disabilities to see theirs much less and say almost two-thirds of the time they see their loved ones and see their friends. This is the same thing that applies and is presented at the last European Forum of Persons with Disabilities can also be seen in the Republic of Croatia. We know that in our population of about 4.5 million people, there are 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities, which is consistent with the fact that 10% of the population are people with disabilities. These 429 thousand 421 persons are persons with birth disability, these are persons with disabilities from World War II and their consequences, persons with disabilities from the Homeland War and their consequences, persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities, persons with disabilities as a consequence of chronic diseases, persons with disabilities as a consequence of traffic accidents. Of course, this population deserves special attention and this government has shown great interest in these members of our society during this term and has adopted a large number of new laws, amendments and additions to existing laws, and has made it rich and of course contributed to new regulations and all in order to make the lives of these people as high as possible and to include these people in life as soon as possible, the normal life of the environment in which they live. The activities of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity as well as the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia should be particularly highlighted. By passing this law, the Attorney General's Law on Persons with Disabilities, I would say that one way is to round up a series of measures adopted for the benefit of these persons. And the Club of Representatives, once again I will say, the Croatian Democratic Community is thanking on behalf of all those to whom this law applies and of course supports the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95117	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, many laws have not been passed in the area of protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Only the law or amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment has been passed. And unfortunately, that law hasn't worked for two and a half years. These are the only changes and additions in the area of persons with disabilities who have been passed, and everything else that has been passed by the laws and social care has gone towards reducing the rights of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95119	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSU Club Mr. Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95120	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, which characterises the Republic of Croatia as a democratic state with a view to protecting the rights of persons with disabilities related to the documents of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Union, which establish the current areas of action with its contents, recommend the application of their principles to protect rights and interests in national and political legislation. According to records in the Republic of Croatia there are 429 thousand 421 disabled persons of different categories and causes of disability. Here if we follow this table on page 8, then we see that there's a cause of disability, so someone's been born disabled, someone's become disabled, someone's got a underlying disease, someone's car accident, and everything else. Here this category of birth disability, which has 25 thousand 184 according to this record, deserves special attention in my opinion because these are according to all of our characteristics that need to deserve special attention and should be treated specifically. First of all, the rights of disabled people have been regulated in various ways. The adoption of this law will make it easier to exercise regulated rights to persons with disabilities. We see here, according to these articles, a detour and a way of working where the Ombudsman should advocate the protection and promotion of the rights of persons, the interest of persons with disabilities. We know that so far they've had a lot of rights, but they couldn't achieve it, they didn't know the way they were supposed to do it. And I think that this attorney should do more than have two assistants to work on so that they all have rights and that he protects them in that right. First of all, we have good laws on paper that take care of the employment of those people with disabilities, and there is also a law where someone does not hire workers with special needs, that certain means should be allocated to ensure them means schooling and a way that he can do what he needs to do. It also speaks, the authorities of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government, legal and physical persons are obliged to cooperate with the defender of persons with disabilities. There is little question here, the question and development and economic strength of individual local self-government is raised. Because we see different examples. For example, here I am now traveling a tram to the Parliament and I see that these low floor trams in Zagreb that drive so that people with wheelchairs can come in and translate. Okay, he can't sit on a chair, but someone's bringing him in and has a chance. These local self-governments of some who are poor will be very difficult to provide transportation for people with disabilities above all and these architectural barriers that are present will be very difficult to solve where economically weaker local self-government is. And we have a large number of local self-governments that are quite poor, who can barely support themselves. Since this law is quite acceptable, those suggestions and remarks that have been made, I expect it to be proven and welcomed, we in HSU welcome this law and we think that persons with disabilities will get a lot of just normal with the support of all of us so that we can defend these rights of persons with disabilities in every way possible. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to support this bill, and we hope it brings a lot of good people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95121	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Bishop Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I said in my first reading of this law, I believe that we all agree that the rights and interests of people with disabilities should be protected. Unfortunately, though, support for the rights of disabled people in everyday life is often just a declarative nature. Despite a whole series of acts that aim to improve the quality of life of disabled people, we still have a whole series of difficulties that people with disabilities face. Somewhere I came across information that we have as many as 280 different acts, or the right people with disabilities. We also have many government bodies in charge of their implementation. It would really be said that in the Republic of Croatia people with disabilities, or persons with disabilities, there is really nothing missing. But I would still like to look at only two things that are mentioned in this final proposal, which I pointed out in the first reading and which are not accepted in creating the final text of this law. In fact, I mentioned the funds provided for in this law, so it says that my remark is not accepted since they are in point 3. The final draft law, inter alia, provided for and expenditure on intellectual services as well as consultations. That's right. However, if we add up all these funds, it turns out that out of the estimated 2 and a half million kuna for the Attorney's Office, millions and 860,000 are planned for employees, ongoing maintenance and capital investments, and 640 000 for renting space, material, communication, information, professional training, literature, seminars, consultations, promotion of intellectual services, international membership fees and official travel. In these terms, it is not really possible to read how much expenditure on intellectual services will be, as well as counselling, i.e. for specific assistance to persons with disabilities in the work of this office. And the other thing I wanted to look back on, which is also in this argument explained that it was not accepted about the name of the institution. I have already suggested in my first reading that the law be changed, i.e. the name of the institution, in order to avoid emphasising the individual sex, so I said it would be good for the law, that the institution should be called the Ombudsman's office for persons with disabilities, not the lawyer's office. And so did the other defense attorney's offices. And here it is stated that the use of both sexes in defining the concepts in the legal text additionally burdens the text which is not meaningful or enforceable. I think that this is very easy to resolve already in one sentence of the first article, where it would be said that this law is governed by the delirious and mode of work, and the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Advocate or Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and His Deputys, and to be added in the accompanying text by the Advocate. In this way, both sexes would be covered if my remark had not already been accepted that the institution was called the Attorney General instead of the Advocate General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95123	Thank you very much. Does the Ministry's representative want to say something? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95124	Final draft law on the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee has been accepted by the applicant, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 97 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95125	We're going to 34. Proposal for a Law on Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 777. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the Agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Secretary of State Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Allow me to highlight the importance of this Law in this introductory part of the address for Croatian strategic interests. So, we already know that, but I think this occasion should be particularly emphasized that our country is a country with over a thousand islands and islets that have about 130 thousand inhabitants. And for this reason, Croatia's Adriatic is one of our most valuable economic and most important strategic potentials. What it requires is its adequate protection and protection. The sovereignty of our country extends over the inner sea waters and the territorial sea, which again makes up more than 50% of the land surface in part of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, certain sovereign rights and jurisdictions of the Republic of Croatia extend over both the epicontinental belt and the protected fishing band. And that is why legal, economic and security regulation of relations at sea and on the seashore is extremely important for our country, including, of course, the protection of sovereignty and sovereign rights in accordance with the standards of international law of the sea. So for this quality protection, we need to have the right abilities and be able to prevent all unwanted phenomena in a timely manner, so we have an appropriate organization. All missions and tasks carried out by the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia are therefore a function of protecting the rights and interests of the State at sea, so logically, accordingly, they are defined and accepted, both by this House and in other strategic documents such as those relating to the area of defence, as a long-term development plan. Thus, this law, by adopting the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, creates a legislative framework that will enable the Republic of Croatia, through the Coast Guard, to monitor effectively and control the Croatian sovereignty of sovereign rights and jurisdiction in different sea regimes. So, here, a little closer on the organization itself. The Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, as proposed by this Act, will be established in the Croatian Navy, as I have already highlighted in line with the long-term development plan, but as a special entity. So it's not a militarization of operational behavior. It is the formation of a separate organisation of the whole with the distinctive features of its means, vessels and aircraft with a distinctive sign which will differ from the signs and from the appearance of the Croatian Navy. And with its organization and with its responsibilities and verticals, through which the responsibilities of the other authorities of the state administration are determined. Basic jobs and assignments. So here's the short story of how a division of business would be compared to other entities. The main jobs and tasks of the Coast Guard are the protection of the sovereign rights and the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the first order, so as to play a fundamental role in the protected ecological and fisheries belt, the epicontinental belt and the open sea, and in other parts of the sea, therefore in the territorial sea and inland waters, providing support to the other authorities of the State administration in the affairs under their jurisdiction and also defined by this Act. The law provides that the Coast Guard shall have the authority to plan and carry out tasks and to coordinate with other competent authorities. The Coast Guard's tasks can also only be performed by authorised persons, based on the education and training they will receive, in accordance with the regulations of the competent authorities of the state administration. Well, for example, if it's about surveillance, then it's according to the proper regulations. If traffic control is concerned, etc., which is in the jurisdiction of other ministries, all coast guard personnel through the education process must have qualifications that legitimise them for such tasks. In order to direct and monitor the authorities responsible for the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea, so that central coordination between the existing services is established so-called ‘the Republic of Croatia’. Central coordination for the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea, which are chaired alternately for a year by representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the sea and the representative of the Ministry of Interior. This Central Coordination therefore provides guidelines for the development of a joint action plan and specific plans, specific plans within other bodies, supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea and brings an annual plan of joint activities. It, as its support body, has an expert body composed of representatives of the competent ministries and it draws up all these plans, guidelines and other materials needed for work, and the chairman of the expert body is the commander of the Coast Guard. In view of the possibility of joint planning and effective operational action on the ground, they are formed at the level of the county so-called. the area coordination units chaired by the representative of the Ministry of the Sea. By forming the Coast Guard, the defence minister is detaching from the Croatian Navy funds, so it will be in particular 9 ships that will no longer be ships of the Croatian Navy in support of traditional combat tasks, these will be ships of the Coast Guard with special markings. And also from the Croatian Air Force helicopters, four helicopters and two pilastos, and in support there are clearly other systems. The air system, the radar monitoring system on the Adriatic, which is in continuous operation for 24 hours, the operational and command centre of the Croatian Navy, which is also with its command-information system is on the disposition of the Coast Guard Command and of course the logistics and other training capacities of the Croatian Navy are in support of the organisation. What are the tasks? The tasks are therefore to take appropriate measures and actions to protect sovereignty, in accordance with the rights that the Republic of Croatia has in certain parts of the sea, so it is proposed that the Coast Guard in cooperation with other bodies carry out tasks and tasks in the fight against terrorism and maritime robbery, preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, preventing the smuggling of goods and persons at sea in accordance with international law and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In the protected ecological belt, it also conducts monitoring and protection of the marine environment, natural and cultural heritage, and in the inland waters, as I have said, it provides support to the competent authorities for monitoring and protecting the marine environment and natural cultural heritage. It will also, in cooperation with the competent body for marine fisheries in the ZEP, primarily monitor and protect marine fisheries because it already has the necessary skills to do so, and in the inland waters it will provide support to the authorities responsible for the control of marine fisheries. Also, when it comes to security of navigation and search and rescue. Following the adoption of this law, sublegal regulations will also be laid down to develop certain provisions of this law, which will be passed by the minister responsible for defence affairs in co-operation, i.e. with the consent of the resolution ministries. So, once again, I would like to emphasise the fact that the Coast Guard is this proposal, although the establishment of the Croatian Navy, organised and functionally, will not eliminate other participants in the surveillance and protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea, but will establish an effective organisation and clear responsibility for the implementation of tasks and optimise existing capacities. It therefore does not take over or restrict the competence of other bodies at sea but complements their competences and provides them with support for the performance of the tasks given to them by applicable regulations. Therefore, this model proposed by this law uses the existing human and material potentials of all the authorities of the state administration responsible for the supervision and protection and exercise of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea and, consequently, respected ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I propose that this House endorse the proposed text of the law because it is vital for the Republic of Croatia and it will allow effective control and control of Croatian sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction in different regimes of the sea and I call on you to enable the establishment and start of the work of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia for which we await the independence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95127	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the board want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95128	Thank you very much. Well, at the very beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction that we finally got on the benches and that we are discussing the Coast Guard Act today, but I do not understand, and here I would ask the Proposer to answer my question as to why we are going through an emergency procedure. So there's a very serious law in front of us that maybe people who don't know enough matter don't even know what it brings. According to my assessment, this law will cost several hundred million kunas to taxpayers, and it seems to me that it would not be a good thing to discuss the urgent procedure in this pre-election time when all or most of some kind of political decision is put into that pre-election story, too. I won't talk about education, I won't talk about equipment etc., enough for you from Monday to read, say, "The Morning List" to see what equipment the Croatian Navy has to do to fulfill the tasks set by this law among other things. You remember on two occasions in this meeting the SDP Club also proposed the Coast Guard Act and if you allow me only one sentence which is the difference between this concept that we now have, or a proposal on benches and the one we proposed. So this concept goes along with proposing that we have the Coast Guard in the Croatian Navy, and we suggested that we have the Croatian Navy in the Coast Guard. I don't know, I haven't seen any writers, no report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anyone who says this law is in line with the practice of European countries. Maybe a few sentences actually what this practice looks like in Europe. And only two countries in Europe have this model. It's Norway and Iceland. I don't think there's any need to waste words on why Norway and why Iceland. These are the only two countries, along with Turkey if we count it in Europe, so they're the only two countries that actually have and so to say the ocean in their space, that is where they have this need to monitor, and one that extends to call it a marine or ocean area. All the others. Turkey is there again because there are three, which has three seas, two crossings, etc., etc. However, in some countries such as Italy, and in particular Spain and Portugal, there is this military dimension, i.e. an army, or a navy, is engaged in situations where it is deemed necessary. But what concerns me and what I don't see from this bill answers some questions. You remember that one of the main obstacles or negotiations with Serbia this country led around the border and the border surveillance, so whenever we negotiated since 2000, we always pointed out the problem of saying Serbia withdrawing the army from its borders. With this bill, Croatia will be one of the few countries, not to say the only country that brings the army back to the borders. You didn't want to admit it that way. If you read the fine law, you will see in detail that this means it. I think it's actually inadmissible. On the other hand, what is particularly unclear to me and what may even be the subject of a constitutional suit, which is that the military, or the Croatian Navy, is given police authority. You don't have that in any country. Likewise, customs authorities are granted to the Croatian military. However, a crucial question is also being asked. That if you read chapter two and three, you'll see that that's not clear. So it is said that police and customs, or these other segments, are helping the Coast Guard, because that means I would ask the answer here that the MORH, or the Croatian Army, is competent, or that they are superior to the Croatian police, or customs, not to tell the inspectorate, etc. So I'm interested in the situation, say Kresimir IV. He finds my friend Antisic somewhere where he can't scrub and there farm him, and we all know that Kresimir IV. It can't be stopped, so he can't stop if he has a little sea, the police come at the same time. Whose jurisdiction is this now? I think that these situations at sea will be solved, because we are left with them. So at sea we have the same powers as both the police and customs and the fishing inspection, so the entire state inspectorate, the port captainate. At the same time, we receive a Coast Guard that has all these powers. Who's the first, who's the second, who's the third? Who will solve any disputes? You know what? I am not prone as a Dalmatian and who knows that Croatia and that the future of Croatia in tourism believe that foreign boaters who are increasingly grateful to God on the Adriatic, and I hope that there will be even more to stop the ships of the Croatian Army. I don't think anyone's actually going to be happy with that variant. If Croatia had an open sea, if I didn't know so much space towards that open sea, so I'd say maybe okay, that story stands in Norway or Iceland. Even one U.S. Coast Guard has an emphasis, such as the Italians, or something less than the Italians have on that civilian component. The Croatian Coast Guard will be the only really coast guard in which there will be no such civilian component. I haven't actually seen how much it's going to cost the education and education of military personnel, the existing coast guard staff, and I don't see that we're so rich in state and we can act like a drunk millionaire, millionaire as you will and actually spend taxpayers' money. At the same time there are police with their resources, at the same time there is a port captainate with its resources, the State Inspectorate with its resources, etc., etc. And I don't see why already existing resources couldn't actually get into that story of ensuring the Adriatic, but we're going for a new model. If the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Croatian Navy has no vision and strategy of what they will do tomorrow when Croatia enters NATO and becomes part of Schengen, within Schengen and the European Union, then I do not really think this can be solved by solutions like this. I think there's plenty more space and details. Since I have no intention of entering individual variations and solutions offered by this Law now because I simply don't think he's good, that he's irrational and that he's bad, that the combination in the sense that we have a civilian agency in which the Croatian Navy will be an associated member and perform special and specific tasks much better than what it has today. I say and stress, I am particularly interested in why the applicant did not deliver an opinion from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the degree of compliance of this Law with European legislation. If you remember not so long ago from Brussels, certain messages related to the structure and way of functioning of their coast guard were sent to Norway. I would hate for Croatia to be in a position tomorrow to also receive certain suggestions that this way of forming and functioning of the coast guard is not suitable for some European practice. So, let me try to recapture and conclude. I propose to the promoter if he has already chosen a model in which the Croatian Navy will be a key subject in the coast guard so that he would have to think specifically about whether they are formed as a special entity as the promoter or otherwise said, it does not matter. In fact, think about what it means when you give police powers to someone in the Croatian Army in Croatia. It's a very dangerous story. Or when you give him that he can actually search the luggage, etc. Why did the Croatian Navy not remain in that part of the fight against terrorism, the fight on the open sea against smugglers, etc. and what is in that concept proposed by the SDP was envisaged. After all, I must admit that it is interesting that representatives, although some of the new representatives of the Croatian Navy who were involved in the Working Group around the Coast Guard in 2003 actually supported that concept, and apparently something has happened now, so that concept and that story have changed. So I end up with a proposal to the Proposer to withdraw this bill regardless of what we are facing the elections, because I think it's too serious and that we should actually take account of the essence of the story, and the essence of the story is that the Adriatic with its resources is one of the basics that I don't say the basic potential of the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that, in fact, the whole story about his protection should be guided by what he means, rather than by the daily political or current needs or the relations of the political forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95129	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Krešimir Cosic. ... What about the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then you should have put the club first, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95130	Okay. Dear Mr. Vice President! Here, maybe at the introduction I'd say next. It's not true that only two states have a Navy and a Coast Guard. In the material that they delivered to me is like this: a presentation of countries that have the Navy and the Coast Guard, I will quote just some: "Argentina, Canada, China, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Japan, the United States, etc." Here, so much for the introduction. A reference that has its name and last name. One is personal attitudes and comments. Other references are from expert bodies dealing professionally and professionally with these issues. Now, let me say a few words. In any case, the problem of establishing, structuring and positioning the Coast Guard within the state administration is not easy or easy. I'll tell you just one of my personal experiences that shows that the establishment of this important body in the Republic of Croatia takes over ten years. I remember in 1996, in collaboration with certain NATO institutions and certain US consultants, we tried to address the issue of positioning the Coast Guard. Talks at the level of defence ministers, the minister of what was then called transport, maritime, etc., the Ministry of the Interior. Everyone had reasons for and against. There's no ideal solution. Every solution that exists has its pluses and its minuses. Thus, after ten years or eleven years of organised efforts by the state administration body jointly working together with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Interior and other institutions sought the best solution and we received the solution we have today. Different as I said solutions exist in different countries and none of these solutions are static. It's not time-variance. The Coast Guards, for example, are being changed. in the United States was once part of the Ministry of Defence, after all that happened in the 2001 terrorist attack becoming an integral part of the Ministry of Homeland Security. We have already begun to send our officers on preparation and training at the Coast Guard institutions of the United States through the so-called. IMET programme, UNORFOG and many other prestigious educational institutions since 1996. And here's the question I'd say, is it normal, natural and logical which of these different models is the best? I'd say every country has its own experiences, traditions. It has the right to seek solutions that it considers to be the most rational, most efficient and functional in the given frameworks of the organisation of the state administration and within the budgetary limits given. And in that sense, regardless of what I once personally was very inclined to other solutions that highlighted the need for the Coast Guard's mission to be particularly highlighted in the form of civil institutions because it can really be uncomfortable in some situations when a Croatian Navy ship or... The Coast Guard ship performs certain tasks that have dual character, not only related to the Coast Guard's responsibilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's the question now, so-called. standard, operational procedures that must be precise and clearly defined how each task is implemented and who is responsible for what to safeguard the competences of existing ministries. That's very important. In any case, I would say simply the best model is one that, with existing resources, will ensure maximum efficiency and functionality. And it seems to me that this model is the best solution in a given moment because protecting a protected eco-fishing belt is, in a logistical sense, in a financial sense, technically the most complex and demanding. And these resources none of these ministries, especially not the Ministry of the Sea, especially not the Ministry of the Interior. And I think that the most difficult task was naturally assigned to the Ministry of Defence or to the Croatian Navy. Because in a short time when the implementation of the ZERP implements secured vessels, secured aircraft, provided helicopters no other ministry would be able to implement. So I think we're on to that solution that's going to work the fastest way. Certainly, when we talk about the Coast Guard Act and when we talk about the articles of this law, then we must highlight one important thing that is preserved under this bill and which is the most valuable organisational form that the Republic of Croatia has and which many in the international community support as a good and quality solution, which refers to coordination. A coordination that forces all ministries to preserve their identity, to co-operate with each other by ensuring maximum efficiency. Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of the Sea, Ministry of Finance, Customs, Ministry of Culture, Protection of Croatian Undersea Goods, Ministry of Foreign Affairs etc. Certainly when we talk about Coast Guard functions and especially I would say when we talk about coordination tasks, then that so-called. Integrated surveillance of the Blue Border is an important task, and let us not talk about this law, when we talk about the Coast Guard to forget that it is actually a headquarters institution. It is not the Coast Guard but the coordination in which all ministries participate, defend their identity, defend their competences but are forced to cooperate to streamline the needs of limited resources that are really small in relation to the requirements. And I think that when we discuss this law, then it is certainly necessary to highlight both the role and the task of this coordination given the fact that the security scene clearly in the global sense has changed significantly. It has certainly changed in its parts that relate to problems at sea. The traditional tasks of the Croatian Navy, of the cold war nature, have really no real meaning or justification, and therefore I think it was rational to seek the new identity of the Croatian Navy by taking care of its organisational capabilities, technical capabilities, logistics and infrastructure, educational institutions that it has unlike other institutions and I believe that we will safely through this solution if we properly interpret it, if we properly implement it with missing provisions, with clear standards and operational procedures that will ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided in the various tasks imposed by this law. And here's maybe a few words about the individual articles of this law. Article 3 clearly states that the Coast Guard is an integral part of the Croatian Navy. The Commander of the Coast Guard is an officer of the Croatian Navy appointed and resolved by the President of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Members of the Coast Guard are officers, officers, sailors and soldiers, but I would certainly point out that component of officials and subsistences who, in the functioning and formation of the Coast Guards, must have a proper high level, a high profile to highlight this dual purpose of the Coast Guard, that it is not only a military institution but also a civil-military institution that balances the need for civil-military relations. Next, here I am going to stay for a short while on Article 8. I think it's a key article of this law. In order to direct, oversee the authorities responsible for the supervision and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea shall establish the central coordination that already exists, which shall act to monitor and protect the rights of the interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The central coordination consists of appointed representatives of the Ministry of Defence, Maritime Affairs, Internal Affairs, Fisheries, Environment, Economy, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Culture, Justice, etc. And this all shows how many problems solve all these problems and issues related to the tasks and responsibilities of different bodies and different parts of the state administration are complex. What I think is also good and should be stressed is that the good compromise that I would say makes this whole law in general well balanced that central coordination is chaired alternately for a year by a representative of the defence ministry, by a representative of the maritime ministry and by a representative of the interior ministry. And I think that these are good steps to get one I would say a more modern law that meets both the criteria and the interests of the European Union because we need to know that the European Union looks at these issues differently compared to NATO, stressing much more this civilian component, certainly NATO retains that profile that is equally important, and it seems to me that this bill after a long series of years, after eleven years we have managed to reach a good acceptable solution of a rational one that will succeed I would say professionally and competently address all the problems we face when it comes to protecting sovereignty and sovereignty, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea, but also to combat and prevent terrorism, organised international crime, preventing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating piracy, etc., many tasks from those also relating to the protection of the marine environment, natural and cultural heritage, the search and rescue operations. And I believe that the coordination that works through the adoption of this law as well as the Coast Guard within the Croatian Navy will contribute to further safety on the Croatian sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95132	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Department of Defense, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this one is never too late, and it is never too soon when it comes to the Coast Guard that has been discussed for a very long time. There were a whole series of legislative proposals, solutions that moved in different directions. What's really important is not what kind of organisational unit the Coast Guard will be found in, it doesn't matter how it is positioned. It is important how effective it will be and how effective it will naturally meet those objectives and tasks that are primary and which have also led to them and become the main reasons for the Coast Guard to be established as such with all its basic tasks and objectives. Of course, there were those who claimed it could be organised in this way, there were those who thought it should be organised within some other ministries, there were those who thought it should be a link between several ministries. Practice, especially in Croatia when it comes to interconnections or bodies that co-ordinate between various public authorities, among the ministries that are in charge of those opportunities or of those circumstances that we can entail under extremely dangerous, extremely necessary, which should provide answers to certain questions that are not most peaceful and sometimes not the most peaceful. Then, of course, the Ministry of Defence gets a lot of weight in this or that way of deciding because indeed in the modern world, which is naturally marked by various threats, and in a way the sea has become a means of making it possible to threaten the very way in which they come in the form of smuggling, whether in the form of possible challenges of terrorism, or in the form of threats under the economy, or in the form of threats to environmental security. All these threats when it comes to the sea always have very far-reaching consequences and are practically irreparable when it comes to disasters that may occur. The second topic that inevitably belongs to the content of this topic is of course ZERP so disputed, so called upon, so delayed that simply without coast guard as the backbones of a system that will monitor, control, direct, punish and register simply cannot be placed on two legs. He can be on one leg, on half foot. But without the coast guard ZERP cannot experience its basic, primary function, which is to protect a huge aquarium of 25000 km2 Croatian seas. Therefore, on this side, too, lies the advantage of the Ministry of Defence for reasons that he, not so strong and not so powerful and not so many of his means at his disposal, can quickly and immediately put into office the Coast Guard and finally in the position of trying to establish control over the ZERP. Of course, with this operational decision, we're politically hoping to make it and we won't change it again, which is 1.1. In 2008, and that date will remain as such. Of course, it should be hoped that after the adoption of this law there will be enough time, the power to just prepare the Coast Guard to do its basic tasks and functions, I say especially when it comes to excluding this general and universal security which should, of course, be covered by this question of the ZERP itself because it is a very complex business. So it is also about the expertise of supervision, it is also about respecting international contracts which will naturally exist at that time and the Coast Guard will face all of them. What can always cause different polemics, of course, can cause different interpretations is that it would all be if this law had been set differently. The right will be only one to show through the embezzlement of practices through the next calendar year of 2008 that the Coast Guard is functioning. It will also be right if, in the necessary funds for the 2008 budget at the position of the Ministry of Defence, the funds are brought to the level required by the contracts, experiences and practices of other countries that are in the process of negotiating NATO entry. So that level of stake in the gross social product. Of course, when it comes to coast guard, it won't be enough, this part of the fleet that's listed here already exists within the Coast Guard because it's not exactly the youngest, it's not exactly the most difficult to control, and a lot of complex compositions that the Coast Guard needs to cover, and of course it's going to need far-reaching resources in the position of just strengthening coast guard content to make sure that we don't happen to make a dead letter on paper, so that we don't happen to pass a law that one might not like another. But its main point of content is that it can perform the role and task it is intended for, which is control, control of the security of the regulation and protection of those values which are subject to this law and which in some ways serve to protect sovereignty, sovereign rights, jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea, etc. Therefore, the very practice of how we apply ourselves primarily when creating a new budget, but also the way we deal with it in terms of supporting those positions, I will give an answer to the question of what the Coast Guard will be, to what extent it will meet the challenges that are ahead of it, and definitely they will, meaning that the period behind the adoption of the law will be more important for the assessment of whether the law is effective or not than what is today the conflicting thinking that exists in this law or would exist in another form of this Coast Guard Act. So today's debate is much easier. No one will make a mistake who votes for this proposal for a coast guard bill. But unless strong support is given afterwards to this segment that is very important to a country that is rightly referred to as the maritime land, for a country called the island country, for a country that is called a land that is highly esteemed by its sea and wants to be clearly sovereign on that sea. Therefore, we should all together first and foremost when discussing this material today and this bill proposal is not broken on the option chosen, but first of all try to create an environment to really create the necessary assumptions for the functioning of the coast guard, the necessary assumptions of the way in which it should perform its mission and role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95133	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual. The first is Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95134	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Just before us is a proposal for a Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. I would say a historic bill for the simple reason that Croatia has the longest coast in the Adriatic Sea – a land section of 1880 km and an island part of 4398 km. Of course, it should also be repeated that Croatia is a country of 1242 islands and islets and that 130,000 inhabitants live on it. This important part finally after 17 years of the existence of a newly founded Croatian state we have something that is really important to say, which is the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. Very clear concepts. It is also very clear that the reasons for the emergency procedure are highlighted and important that in the end, this concept, which is more modern in governance and which has used the most rational way to direct and monitor the body for the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia, where the central coordination for supervision is established, is then appointed by the Government by representatives of the relevant ministries in the Central Co-ordination. It is also important to stress that the Central Co-ordination is chaired by a year-on-year representative of the ministry responsible for defence, internal affairs and maritime affairs. At the end of the election, it seems to me that the most important man is the commander of the Coast Guard, he is an officer of the Croatian Navy, and he is appointed and resolved by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So both choice and method of appointment are very precise and clearly listed. And this is especially because it will make us even safer sailing, which is more efficient and effective in protecting the marine environment of natural and cultural heritage. Of course, it is not necessary to ignore even sea fisheries control, as I say from January 1, 2008, that we will be able to control the Coast Guard alone from a long time ago. What needs to be welcomed is precisely the proposer who, with one momentivity, thoroughly processed all the components. So that we can truly be satisfied and proud that this bill is finally before us and should be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95135	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that Croatia is an extremely maritime country. So regardless of what we have done in the process of conversion and privatisation in Croatian, we have destroyed quality Croatian maritime shipping by natural resources, by tradition, by the importance of the Adriatic. The Adriatic is the most valuable Croatian resource and needs effective protection, effective management of it, exploitation of it. And yes, it is absolutely clear to me that Croatia needs the Coast Guard. We've been aware of that before. I know that it is only 17 years from Croatian independence, that these 17 years should have been dealt with by far more important issues for the state and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But Croatia's Coast Guard is essential. And we are aware of these facts as a SDP club in May 2005 in the parliamentary procedure of the proposal of the Coast Guard Act, which we saw organised by a unique model and as a civil institution, what counterpart Lucin said in plastic terms on behalf of the SDP club. We saw the Navy in the Coast Guard, not the other way around. Then let me remind you of the proposal of the parent board, the Maritime Committee, this House reached its conclusion in the summer of 2005 which required the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare its proposal for the Coast Guard Act by the end of 2005 so that the Coast Guard could start in 1.6.2006. So since that conclusion of the Parliament, which the Government was obliged to implement, and did not implement it, it has been almost two and a half years and today we at the final session of the Parliament in this session are passing the Coast Guard Act, what we were unable to prepare and bring within two and a half years of the conclusion of no one but this Parliament. And now yesterday on the parent board, I'm expressing indignation, and what I can do but express indignation when I don't have other powers, because of rape procedures, simply rape procedures. In what way does this Law appear today by emergency procedure? We tried that yesterday when we set up the agenda, so if you remember at one point at an electronic vote, it wasn't President Shakespeare who found that there was no quorum. And then we went to a business machination which was certainly legal and allowed to go to a hand-to-hand vote, and then I was listed as a quorum, and I didn't want to be, to do the quorum for one simple reason that I tried in every way to suggest to the government to give up the emergency procedure and to prepare in peace a bill that would really, indeed, be necessary for Croatia. What I do not want to discuss, in the terms of this Law on Articles of the Law, is that it is completely contrary to the concept that we stand for. I think he's incorrigible, that he should simply be returned and referred to the regular procedure. In the last two and a half years, if nothing else, I organized and participated in two Round Tables, one in Pula, one in Rijeka, where all representatives of the maritime economy, ports, port administrations, small boaters' associations, fishermen, lighthouses, and all civil structures operating at sea were present. And no civilian structure supports the Coast Guard structure within the Navy. I listened closely to my colleague Cosic when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and at one point pointed out what I said on the board yesterday, that this Law is not only a matter of resolving the social status of a certain number of Croatian Navy officers and officers in a new structure, which is clear and logical to me. But it could have been different. So please, in May 2005, when we referred to the proposal of the Coast Guard Act in the procedure of one of the allegations, the Ministry of Defence's reply, see around it, the law does not mention the MARH, Croatian Navy, Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft as an essential component for the implementation of the task of the future Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, which suggests that the formal parts of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will not be in the form of the Coast Guard, but that its capacities and resources will be widely used through the institution of coordination with other authorities of the state administration... Her resources. What resources are hers? These are the resources of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens and they are, of course, when we have them, that they will be in the function of the Croatian state but that they must be within the framework of the Ministry of Defence. That's mostly true, he says. This mainly relates to the Search and Rescue Service in requests for the inclusion of ships and aircraft of the Armed Forces, visual and radar surveillance within optical and radar range, requirements for the delivery of a course plan and radar positions of ships, etc. Using your imagination of our capacities, human and material resources, and not bearing a financial burden at least is not correct unless you find the possibility of correct and objective collection of services. So it's clear, but it could be solved on one completely, these capacities that the Croatian Navy has today, we certainly need both these people and these officers and these officers. However, the Adriatic is one of the prestigious nautical destinations, one closed sea and no one can convince me that this establishment of the Coast Guard within the Croatian Navy means, in a certain sense, the militarisation of the Adriatic, which is inappropriate for one such prestigious destination and for such seas and such islands as the Republic of Croatia has. Let's go to one coordinate model. We form an institution that will be above the institutions, as if we don't have enough negative experiences with these various coordinations, as if we don't understand it today. So when we talk about these resources, somewhere around 2004, some media published data on the number of employees in the Ministry of the Sea and all institutions and ships, etc. That I am not holding this House now because it seems to me that you have decided so that it will probably be so, but without my vote in any case and I will never do it for him. However, I would like to say that, in the light of the draft law, the government is constantly calling for ZERP and that the Coast Guard will effectively protect ZERP. What does the government really tell us about this proposal? That the government's resolutions are unable to implement the Parliament's decision on the enlargement and jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, which shall apply from 1 January of the following year, unless this law is adopted by an urgent procedure. We are not prepared to implement that decision, and thank God on December 15, 2006. Then what all the competent authorities of the state administration whose jobs and tasks and whose responsibilities are most important will not change by adopting this law. What prevented the Croatian Navy from participating in the work of government coordination and prepared itself together with other bodies for the implementation of the parliamentary decision? In Europe and the world, this has been a bit of a bickering whether, only Norway and Finland, we know that data. There are different models of coast guard organization. Some of them are based on a co-ordinated model, and some like Greece and Great Britain have organised coastal guards within the state administration body responsible for maritime affairs. In any case, in the overwhelming size of cases, it is a civilian guard, a service formed by professionals as a rule of seamen trained and trained for these jobs. It is indisputable that the Republic of Croatia needs a Coast Guard as I have said, but I am convinced that it would achieve far greater efficiency by organising the Coast Guard as an independent government agency that would have in its jurisdiction all functions of the Coast Guard from the fight against terrorism and smuggling of people to the safety and surveillance of navigation and protection of sea and pollution. In such a system, the military would certainly play its part in providing support whenever necessary. I believe that no reason why the motionor stated does not justify the adoption of this law and I am concluding my debate because it seems to me that time is running out, by proposing that this law be directed into a regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95137	Thank you very much. In conclusion, I hope a brief review of the Ministry's representative, Mr. Mate Rabotek, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95138	Well, here, Mr. Vice President, I'm really going to try to be as brief as possible, but if that's not very brief then it's going to be the result of the fact that they're dealing with data that just aren't accurate and I need to look at some questions and I'm simply explaining some things a little bit better. So as for the emergency procedure, here I go in a row, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin is, and here Mr. Perusko also says why the emergency procedure. Well, gentlemen, because we have a decision to amend and supplement the Croatian Parliament's decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea, and thus the Croatian Parliament decided that for the Member States of the European Union, the application of the legal regime will, therefore, be complemented by an amendment to the decision, amending and supplementing the decision of 15 December 2006, so that the application of the legal regime of the protected organic belt will start at the latest with the date of 1 January 2008. Since when will the fishing rules of the Republic of Croatia apply to fishing and other European Community vessels? Well, gentlemen, isn't it high time we passed this law and regulations that follow for the effective functioning of the Coast Guard? Let's move on. European experiences. Why wasn't the Foreign Ministry involved in the preparation of this law. Yes, gentlemen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated in the regular procedure, I feel that the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and participated in the ZERP task force were therefore a special body and, among other things, representatives of fishermen who supported the emergency procedure for this law, the representatives of fishermen are best aware of what it means if they do not have the right to protect their rights and interests in the Adriatic Sea. Now a little, please, other EU experiences. There are really great mystifications involved. But I'm going before that to militarize the operation. Militaryization of operational conduct. I must and mention the Shengean border, it is mentioned how the army comes out imagine us at the border. I must say, under the Law on the Control of the State Border, the conduct and powers of the border police in the control and protection of land borders and border transfers are described. Compared to the marine area, the law only mentions border crossings on the coastal edge and on the islands. There is no mention of the maritime police and the state border at sea. Therefore, the jurisdiction to act in police situations applies only to state territory that the declared ZERP cannot be regarded as state territory, but rather to the area over which certain rights are extended. So it is normal, then, that in these areas, and this is also emphasized by this Law, the Croatian Navy, and here I am correcting myself for the very simplifications not of the Croatian Navy, but of the Coast Guard, because the Coast Guard is not the Croatian Navy, so it is in this ZERP that has the rights that the police cannot have, because this is the Law on the Surveillance of the State Border that does not allow. And just a few details. So the Coast Guard is not the Croatian Navy. It is a special service, with a special sign, but it must have clearly defined people, equipment, communication, facilities and clearly defined planning and functioning procedures and, of course, it has features of a military organisation, but it does not constitute militarisation in operational behaviour. Just a few details. In the world, gentlemen, there are various models of organized Coast Guard. Many maritime countries have such a model that Navys are the most important factor in monitoring and protecting the interests of the sea. There are no countries where the Navy is within the Coast Guard, but there are many countries where the Coast Guard is within the Navy. So 28.62% of coastal states in the world have coastal guard assignments performed exclusively in the Navy, that is, with the Navy, 29.37% of the countries have coast guard as a special organisation of the Navy. I really need to list here some European examples, as some European examples. A demonstration of the countries that have the Coast Guard as part of the Navy. The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, say the Polish Border Guard, the maritime department was formed 12.7.91. And it's part of the Navy's command. Norway. In April of '77. A coast guard was established operationally subordinated to the Norwegian Defence Command. Let's move on. The representation of countries that have only the Navy, only the Navy, and it performs the Coast Guard task. Let's say Australia, Bulgaria, closer to our country Malta, New Zealand, Portugal. And a representation of the countries that have both the Coast Guard and the Navy. A classic example of the United States. They're rich countries. Argentina, Canada, China, Japan, Greece. In short, there are statistics from gentlemen that 59.12% of the countries that have, therefore, those countries that have 59.13% share in the world's gross national product, so the richest countries in the world have a special navy and a coast guard as separate services. So 24.16% of those countries that have a quarter share in gross national income have only the Navy. So, the conclusion is that 66 countries in the world have only the Navy, the Navy and the Coast Guard of 11 countries, and only the Coast Guard, there are such countries that have police and customs and only the Coast Guard without the Navy have 29. The Coast Guard within the Croatian Navy, as part of the Navy, is a very common example, and we have no example that the Navy is part of the Coast Guard. Only so much around world experience and the militarization of operational behavior. So, jurisdiction has no conflict of jurisdiction. We are in Article 7. The Coast Guard Act said that, where necessary, coast guard officers, customs officers and other services responsible for the implementation of so-called control and protection measures and measures to protect the Adriatic Sea will be boarded. Therefore, if a coast guard ship in the territorial sea stops the offender or ship in an illicit shop, it retains it until the employees arrive. It's all worked out in an existing co-ordinated model where we have standard operating procedures until the vessel of the maritime police or the competent service arrives, or that same ship brings it to the nearest port. If it is on the high seas, if there is an authorised employee who has thus obtained the powers of training under a programme defined by the Minister of the Interior, then that employee may exercise control. Therefore, the Croatian Navy singles out coast guard funds and primarily operates within the ZERP because it is the only one that can act within the ZERP, and in the territorial sea and in the internal sea waters there is support and I do not see any cohesion there. Those coast guard officers who will perform customs, supervisory or police duties must have all the powers vested in the relevant staff of the competent ministries in accordance with the programme and in accordance with the permits issued by the resolution minister. As a rule, the operation will be such that employees from these ministries will board the coast guard ships or the coast guard ship will therefore carry out certain offenders to the nearest port or until, or await the consent of the sea police vessel, etc. It is about support in the internal sea waters of the territorial sea, and primarily for surveillance and protection in the ZERP. I thank those debaters who have understood the intensities of this law, which is not, therefore, the militarisation of operational treatment but the allocation of funds in terms of rational use of existing resources in a new service which, together with existing services, will produce the best results on the existing co-ordinated model that has been verified and functioning. Of course, I agree with Mr Markov that it is not, that the funds, the existing Croatian Navy funds that will go to the Coast Guard, are not enough. They're not enough, we're aware of that. Gentlemen! In the next period of building new Coast Guard capabilities, building ships that will be able to patrol and monitor, stay at sea for a long time, etc., is our priority. It is a priority of the Ministry of Defence's financial plan and defence budget. This is why funds are provided for in the long-term development plan. That is why there is an understanding of this Parliament as soon as it has adopted this long-term development plan. And that will be our marketable, market-based task in the future. We now have the means to get one or more more of these recently through the construction of a domestic shipyard and other ways of new ships, which will then, with what we have, really, be able to fully cover what is expected of the future Coast Guard. Mr. President, here I am. I think there's a lot of misunderstanding. It may have taken some previous discussions, but I think it's long enough for this law to be cooked. It's been working long enough to see that it works. The worst thing would be to leave it so it goes into another reading, and then it stretches and tomorrow when we have to apply the law that we have nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95139	Although my short hopes did not come true, I admit that this argument was necessary and I thank Mr. Secretary of State. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go, Mr. Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95140	So in a number of incorrect allegations especially regarding the information the secretary of state gave, I will correct only one, and that is that the Fisherman's Council has supported the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. That's incorrect. It is true that the Fisherman's Council supported the passing of laws by emergency procedure because it burns under their heels, but not by such a law. You could read this today in the media a statement by the President of the Croatian Fisherman's Ceha in "The Voice of Istria", "The New List", I don't know if the other media published it, but you could have read it. So that's incorrect. And I want to thank Mr. Secretary for being on the board and here, even though I indirectly said I didn't understand. I admit I didn't understand this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95141	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95142	Let's move on. And we still have one with that majority. Final proposal of the Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments proposed by the late Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 81 for, 14 against. Law passed with 81 against 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95143	We're moving on to the next item of the 35 agenda. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials with a final draft law, emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 776 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. An emergency procedure is applied. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to further explain. No, I don't. Thank you. Do the rapporteurs want it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95144	Final draft law supplementing the law on the obligations and rights of government officials. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? A fellow Pod, please, it'll only take a little while. Be a little longer. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 81 for, 5 against, 12 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95145	We're going to the next item on agenda 36. Final proposal of the Criminal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 673 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go1
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is a second reading before you as the Final Proposal Violation Law. So, as you can see from that law in the first reading, he suffered one change. It is no longer called the Law of Infringement, but the Law of Infringement because it is estimated that it is more suited to the spirit of what is prescribed by this law. Given that I will not repeat in the second reading what the objectives and reasons for the adoption of this law are to introduce new institutes such as the criminal order and the dispensation of courts and the transfer of jurisdiction to bodies in the first instance of the administrative body, we will actually relieve not only courts but we will speed up criminal proceedings and make this procedure more effective and efficient. I thank you as a proposal for the Government of the Republic of Croatia for those remarks made on the first text of the law reading because by adopting it in, and by assembling it in the final proposal, they contributed to its better clarity, transparency and we hope for a better application in practice. This text of the final proposal has been given by this Legislative Committee by an amendment to which the text is nomotechnically edited and accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95147	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95148	Final proposal for a law of violation. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. To pass laws, most of all MPs are required, at least 77 for. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Who's in? Please. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 91 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions, Law accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95149	Moving to the next item on agenda 37. Final proposal of the Law on Transport of Real estate, second reading, P.Z. No. 740 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When this law is passed... Rules of Procedure relating to second reading of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Would the proposing representatives like to explain? Yeah. State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I won't talk much. The law is very short, it's clear, it's first. I would just like to say here that the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Legislatives has made amendments. They shall be accepted in writing as proposed. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95151	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95152	Final proposal for a law on real estate intervention. The amendments proposed by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economic and Reconstruction have been accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Where's Agent Kramarić? Restraint? 93 for, five abstentions, mostly passed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95153	And we're going to point 39. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, second reading, P.Z. No. 709 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Justice. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And today we'll interrupt the session. Tomorrow at 10pm and 15pm representatives here in the hall when His Excellency Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering, President of the European Parliament will address the Croatian Parliament. After that, after that end at 11 o'clock and 15 o'clock At 11:30 a.m., we continue with the meeting of the Croatian Parliament with a law which, therefore, is an amendment to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. [[Intruder: either 15 or 30 hours.]] And I think it'll be the only law that we can discuss tomorrow before the vote. So I ask you at 10:15 in the assembly to meet the President of the Russian Parliament in due time. ... The vote is probably three o'clock, but I can't be exact on behalf of the president. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But count, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95154	Final draft law amending and supplementing the family law. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, excuse me. You have shown yourself about the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Stjepan Adamic, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95155	Dear Sir and President, ladies and gentlemen. The government accepts the amendment of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. So the amendment one accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95156	What do you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95157	Amendment two, Amendment three and Amendment four. So all four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95158	To accept these amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-27-0.u95160	And okay. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 97 votes to pass unanimously on this law. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! I am opening a session of the Croatian Parliament at which we will be addressed by the President of the European Parliament His Excellency Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering. I warmly welcome you all! I welcome Mr. Pöttering, the diplomatic assembly and I invite His Excellency Mr. Hans-Gert Pöttering to address the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. President!
