ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93344	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Before you is the Annual report on the work of the national lawyers in the Republic of Croatia for 2006. The standard methodology written as well as earlier years with additional extensions which, in my opinion alone, improved the quality of his work, gave you the opportunity to get into more detail of what we did last year. Otherwise, the Annual report on the work of state attorneys contains data on the work of state attorneys in the area of criminal, civil and administrative law, the legal issue of certain areas, the review of the organisation of the state of affairs as well as proposals for improving the work of state attorneys. Otherwise, all of these activities contained in this report were carried out by 20 county state attorney's offices, 61 municipal state's attorney's office and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime as a special state attorney's office and finally the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. This report, as used to earlier years, contains not only a review of the work of state attorneys but contains something more important than that, which is a review of the state and movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia as well as all the measures and actions taken to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia. That is why it is so detailed, extensive, but on the other hand it gives you the possibility that at any moment not only the Parliament, which assesses the work of the State's Attorney's Office but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, since our report is transparent on the website of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, to see all the information indicated in it. Finally, the methodological method and approach of drawing up this report as well as data containing not only the text part but also the annexes in the table view provide an opportunity to compare all these years since such an annual report has been drawn up. I will only give in the shortest lines the basic indicators in this report and the ones I consider important, and they concern not only our work but also the state and movement of crime as well as the care of the property of the Republic of Croatia. What is most significant is that in the past 2006 as well as earlier years, there was a decline in crime by another 3%, with the number of persons reported increased by 2% and the number of unknown perpetrators smaller by 9%, which shows that other bodies of discovery in the last year worked better. Namely, compared to the total number of criminal charges or better said criminal events, police submitted a number of reports, and a small number remained undetected. The parity between celebrities and unknowns is 57.2 known for the benefit of 42.8% unknown, which points to the conclusion that this relationship has been improving lately and that it is much better than it was in earlier years. In graphic indicators that speak of the territorial spread of crime, you're used to giving a presentation by county. As in earlier years Pula, i.e. Istria has the largest number of criminal offences reported in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we explain this with the same reasons as in previous years and we have a foothold for this, first of all it refers to so-called. tourism crime that takes place in the summer months especially at those border crossings of Buja, etc. etc. Interestingly, these indicators also show where and where the county has seen an increase, i.e. a fall in crime in certain areas. The same data that I have been mentioning for several years, comparing data in the region or in the surrounding countries, we have almost the lowest number of persons reported, events reported to 100,000 residents compared to neighbouring countries, but it is already known and already said. As far as the structure of crime is concerned, the largest number is property crimes, theft, heavy theft, etc. and then crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen, these are the threats he has farthest but those in themselves are not crimes that give particular weight or social danger. As regards the work of state attorneys in criminal cases, the average time of work of state lawyers is already below three months, and there we have indeed reached those standards that are long ago in the European Union, but especially what is important, and here we have given a detailed representation in the graphic section, we are following the work on cases that are older than six months individually, so that the simple number of older cases is getting smaller and smaller and from this data results in the number of unsolved applications of older than six months in the country's entire area of 4 thousand 182 registered persons. The largest number of older objects in Zagreb and then Split. As for the type of decisions we make on criminal charges, the number of rejections of criminal charges is somewhere around 35% standard at the usual procedure as in earlier years. Discarded criminal charges can speak in two directions, firstly that part of the criminal charges filed is indeed not well and high-quality, which is why there is insufficient doubt about the continuation of the criminal proceedings or the fact that a significant number of applications are filed for these or those reasons, not because it contains the characteristics of the criminal offence. This is particularly true of the criminal part of the threat where the number of rejections is extremely large, but also in relation to the offences of abuse of position or authority where a large number of officials are reported only because they have made some kind of negative decision in their previous work that does not satisfy one of the applicants. As far as the decisions made on our charges or procedural decisions are concerned, the only thing we can measure the objective quality of our work is judicial decisions. On the occasion of our accusations, 87.4% are a condemning verdict, which is an extremely large percentage. 7.3% are liberating and 5.3% are reluctant verdicts. Such a large percentage is an exceptional confirmation of the quality of these decisions that have been filed, i.e. the charges or the prosecution proposals, and I must also highlight one fact arising from the report, which is that last year the number of unconditional prison sentences is 16.1%) and this is the highest percentage since we have been following and delivering reports to the Croatian Parliament. Last year there were 14%. Here, with this percentage of 16.1%), we have come to the very limit of European averages around unconditional prison sentences and we are thinking in what way and how in the next period of criminal policy and criminal sanctions besides conditional convictions which have a significant number of attempts through secondary fines to sanctioned defendants because it seems to me that in this way we could simply achieve the purpose of punishment. Appeals against such judgments were filed in relation to each seventh verdict, and in this way the state attorneys tried to take part in the criminal policy for their part, however, in addition to the judgments taken on the basis of a regular criminal procedure, alternative ways of resolving criminal proceedings which have been brought to full attention in the past year, resulting in the fact that more than 5 thousand fines were passed and thus, in fact, the state's attorneys without judicial proceedings, the actual court proceedings succeeded in the decisions confirmed by the courts by the judgments. It's almost 25% of all court decisions, it was actually made through criminal orders. Something about underage people. They're especially under our care. I've been following up on these underage departments, and it's extremely important that we know what's going on with juvenile crime at all times. There is approximately the same situation in several recent years, a slight increase compared to a year ago, but minors are mostly under asset delicacies 63.6%. So these are more or less petty thefts, burglaries, etc. There are no alarming phenomena compared to minors. However, with regard to minors, it is particularly pointed out that in our report we have paid particular attention to the proportions of violence in the overall criminality of minors. In my opinion, the perception of the public is wrong when it comes to often minor crime, violence of minors, etc., etc. Data numbers are extremely real, much less than they were years ago, only 399 applications for partial violence in the past year. A year before, there were 409, etc. However, even with regard to these applications, we rejected a significant part because applying the principle of purpose to minors, this institute is applied in as many as 56% of all decisions because we consider that only a warning or threat to a minor is sufficient to prevent such or similar crime. So violence in a minor is not how it's misbehaving in public. According to only 919 minors, juvenile sanctions were imposed during 2006, and all prisons in 14 cases. Something about the work of USKOK according to these statistical indicators. In 2006, there were 397 applications from the authority of the USKOK, the current jurisdiction of the USKOK, which did not include a criminal offence of abuse. In resolving these reports, USKOK was extremely up-to-date, 96.8% of the convictions were passed, even more than in the ordinary procedure, only 2.6 were liberating, and 0.6% were refutable. Most of these sentences were prison sentences, or unconditional prison sentences. Crime areas, crimes against life and bodies are also well represented, but in decline compared to last year by 4.2%. The total number of persons reported throughout the country for these offences is a thousand 654. However, compared to these crimes, I must stress that there has been a slight increase in the most severe forms of these crimes, which are murders, murder or murder in an attempt. However, these data in itself do not worry because they are, these increases are relatively small. For example, the murders last year were 48 compared to 42 years ago. Mostly for these crimes, unconditional prison sentences are imposed. Criminal acts against human and human rights and rights are mainly threats that are being rejected in most cases. Finally last year, the Penal Code was also amended when most of these threats were transferred from the sphere of criminal offences by official duty to private lawsuits because the monitoring of these crimes found to be insignificant or leniency matters, and in most cases they do not have the characteristics of this crime. The number of rejections for these criminal charges is as much as 87.8%, which shows enough what it's about. Something about criminal acts against the values protected by international law, war crimes. At age 6, 76 people were reported. Most of these applications were resolved in a way that investigated requests were submitted. The part following the investigation was accused, but also ruled in a way that 32 convicts were made, and negative or liberating or refuting decisions were made in relation to 10 people. Compared to war crimes, all I can say is that, as in earlier years, a procedure has been continued to control previous proceedings where a little too wide has been going on in the process so that the number of people currently in the war crimes proceedings in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere around a thousand 107 of the indictments since '91. I'm on it. In addition, in cooperation with the police and the SOA, the State Attorney's Office continued or intensified better said work on World War II war crimes cases. In this direction is particularly engaged the Croatian State Archives which examines all archives of that time, and is also requested from neighbouring countries, above all from the State Archives in Serbia to control the documents they have there to clear things up, war crimes from that time, and possibly those who have still tried alive, but above all to determine the real facts and persons responsible for this. In these cases, the problem of World War II war crimes is, in this way, really intense. Drugs. As far as drugs are concerned, more people were reported for 2.1. But there's one situation here that's not good, at least that's how I estimate it. The majority of applications shall relate to the criminal offence of the abuse of intoxicating drugs referred to in paragraph 1. It's the possession of intoxicating drugs. However, compared to qualified harder forms relating to dealers, the number of persons reported is smaller than the year before. Not much, but less. I think things should be turned around here because in relation to the very existence of intoxicating drugs, the state's attorneys in large numbers apply the institute... social dangers because we consider it more useful if for just one joint or one use of marijuana, we talk about easier drugs, there is some kind of procedure that will not result in criminal proceedings before the court, because that will result in a purpose and also a follow-up of usually younger people, minors or minors about the first use of intoxicating drugs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about the first time and easier forms of drugs. The crimes of economic crime are rising somewhere around 3%. However, in the criminal offences of economic crime, I must tell you that the position of the State Attorney's Office is, and we have done this last year in a way that, in the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office, we have proposed a radical change in criminal acts against the economy in order to adapt it to the present state of affairs, because, in the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office, the criminal acts of the economy still have great insights about the characteristics of the crimes from the former Yugoslavia or socialist property, which is why we are very much, which is why we are all expensive of the Police, the State's Attorney's office and courts in a situation where we can hardly today adapt these crimes to the characteristics and description of these crimes. Penalties for these crimes are about that level of average as highlighted at the outset. Criminal acts against official duty are directly based on criminal acts against the economy. They're almost 17% more than last year. But there's what we've been trying to point out all along. The offences of abuse of positions or powers are mainly reported by persons for paragraphs 1 or 2 and these are judges, prosecutors, administrative referencing, representatives of local self-government, etc., who are registered for decisions made either in court proceedings, administrative proceedings or the like. Dissatisfactions with such decisions are trying to resolve their application for this crime. For this offence, otherwise, for the criminal offence referred to in Article 337(4), we have a large percentage of acquittal and acquittals showing all the complexity and difficulties in proving those offences. The relationship between the reports filed and the indictments issued by the verdicts is extremely unfavourable. That's what we're writing on page 37 of our report. We propose that we propose amendments to the laws that would allow for more effective treatment, but also against the Supreme Court's position on the position that abuse of the position and powers referred to in Article 337 in an attempt is not possible, we have submitted one application for protection from lawfulness and we believe that the attempt of this crime is possible as is the case with most crimes, and this is the position of the Supreme Court, I think it will make a significant contribution to making the number of such negative decisions smaller. In addition, we hold that the detection and investigation of more complex cases of economic crime requires joint work by the police and individual agencies of the Ministry of Finance under the supervision of the State's Attorney's Office. Without the active involvement of all these state bodies, we will not be successful in detecting and detecting this crime. We will have but also have large affairs in which the State's Attorney's office begins conducting reconnaissances that partially collect the necessary data but not to the extent and in a way that allows for the rapid completion of the procedure. As a result, we support a platform for amending the Criminal Procedure Act which will enable nature and in the event that the Parliament accepts in the finality an amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act in the way it is indicated in the platform, which will enable the police and the State Attorney's Office to work more quickly and efficiently at that pre-trial stage, or at a stage where it will not be in the manner of so far, as so far it has been recorded, a judicial investigation, but that part will be transferred to the State's Attorney's Office and Police, with of course judicial control of the evidence provided. Corruption crimes have been particularly processed in our report, which is normal, because corruption is also the subject of the interests of the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK number one, in the past year but in this even more. As regards the structures of the registered persons in the last year, they were employees of the police, judicial police, customs officials, officials of the state administration, doctors, judges and bankruptcy managers, directors of the hospital, public notebooks, court experts, labour protection inspectors, port captains, doctors, etc. However, it is our initiative that USCODs lead the crime of abuse of the position of authority that tells you why we are doing it. Because most of these corrupt crimes are committed right through the crime of abuse of office and authority by an official. And that is why, if the Croatian Parliament accepts this view, in any case, the data on real corruption and persecution will be significantly different. The problem is that 337 as such is not included in corruptive crimes and is not present in these records. Violent behavior in the family is also one of the chapters of our report which is particularly interesting and has come from year to year to significant increase in these crimes. The cause of the constant increase in the application is not only an increase in violence but also a greater sensitivity of society to this violence, which helps victims decide to report abusers. There's a big increase from year to year. For example, since 2003, when we had 244 people registered in 2006, we have a thousand 208, so multiple. The perpetrators are mostly men. Something about working on civilian administrative matters because I'm almost running out of time. The drop in civil subjects was also recorded last year as a percentage of 5.8% and above all a drop in administrative cases by 28.8% and litigation cases by 38.5%. Why this fall? First of all, there are no or in a significantly smaller number work disputes are represented. Work disputes are no longer as they were in earlier years, numerous settlements have been concluded, lawsuits have been withdrawn and new cases are missing. It's a good indicator, and all of us together have to look forward to it. On the other hand, the number of litigation cases of a land-book nature is on the rise, which also shows that we are taking all measures towards registering state property since those deadlines expire in 2010 and until then state property must be registered. As regards cases registered last year, the most cases are generated by the Ministry of the Interior, then the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, primarily related to work disputes or disputes related to the property of the Republic of Croatia. As far as litigation cases are concerned, the total value of litigation is an indicator that we point out each year, which we had in the paper representing the basis of the law was 12.5 billion kuna. The total value of cases of dispute in which the Republic of Croatia was prosecutor is 3 billion 174. The value of disputes where the Republic of Croatia was sued was 9 billion 338 million. The data is somewhere about last year, because if we add power representation to that, then we get 14 billion kuna data. One chapter in our report is the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It is a new institute introduced in recent years by the judgments brought by the Strasbourg court. A thousand 250 cases were formed on the basis of complaints by citizens who were not satisfied with the trials and deadlines in which they were expecting a decision. The state paid 4 million 122 thousand kuna on the basis of the lawsuits last year. The bankruptcy cases are getting smaller and smaller. Last year, only 624 items that are missing, which is the application application, which I'm saying total about 624 items. The success in cases is better than last year, especially where we're prosecutors. Where we are sued, we are also worse, but it is not up to us, but to the claims and obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'd almost finished my opening presentation on the work of the state's attorney's office last year. I can only say one more sentence at the end. Statistical indicators suggest that we did something better than we did last year and that this trend of better quality work of the judiciary as a whole, especially I'm talking about us, is evident year by year. That's our point of view. Of course, it doesn't mean it'll be yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93345	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93346	Mr. President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. You have completed your presentation with the conclusion that your point of view is that the work of the state's attorney's office is getting better every year and I must say that this is also the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club. Indeed, when we look at it, here I have to say that for the fourth year in a row on behalf of our club I have been presenting the position of the HDZ Club on the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office and it is clear that you have introduced certain standards and you have reached a certain quality, I would say even excellence in the work. And when we came to that one level it's very difficult now and some dramatic big shifts ahead and work. What each year marks the work of the state's attorney's office is an up-to-date and success. These are definitely two basic characteristics of the work of the state's attorney's office as a whole. Because if we've also had 95 grand and a little more criminal charges this year, if it's left in the state's attorney's office 200 and a few tens of thousands left in other state bodies that have to do some more reconnaissances so that the application can be processed. And if, in total, that application has been resolved in the present and less short period of three months, then we can really be satisfied with the urgency of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Also, if we look at all those charges filed by the state's attorney's office to the courts, if we see that almost 88% have ended with judgments, it is also a very significant indicator of the success of the work of the attorney's office, of its good judgments and of the good acts it has filed. Indeed, the report as a report is brilliantly done has all the necessary ingredients that it has had in recent years. There are indicators, there are charts, crimes by species, by branches, by perpetrators, by minors, by all categories so that it is really not just a set of statistics but what our Professor Horvatic would say also represents a great basis for both scientific and other research related to the state of crime in our society. We see when we look at the number of criminal applications, about 100,000 residents in our country for a certain number of years now, there are about 2,000, and looking at the number itself, Slovenia has 3 thousand and 600, Italy over 4 thousand, and here we belong to one of the lower, the bottom part where it is actually the data suggests that this is not so dramatic in our country regarding the number of criminal charges per population. We also see that for several years now, the largest number of crimes and property delinquency reports has been reported. After that, freedom, then freedom and endangering the lives of citizens, and we see that, as far as the subject's up-to-dateness is concerned, this percentage rises even more from year to year. Also, as regards the policy of punishment in the report, it is evident that they have produced results and those, and those efforts that we have done here in the Croatian Parliament, and that has changed the Penal Code. We changed the Penal Code because we saw and we were dissatisfied with criminal policy. The sentences were extremely low and it really depressed, depressed the public. What have we done? We've changed the Penal Code in a way that in a series of criminal acts we've increased the lower, minimum limit for sentence and we've even increased the upper one somewhere. Because before it does, it's mostly about the number of convictions passed over the penalty minimum. If we've raised that minimum ourselves, that fact will lead to more severe punishments, and it can be seen that it is now yielding results. What we're especially looking forward to is the work of the Uskok. USKOK is a special body, a special organisational unit, so let's say it deals with those most serious criminal acts of organised crime, corruption and here we see that significant advances have been achieved. This will, in particular, be seen in the 2007 report that will be presented next year because I can't, although this report for 2006, can't look back on the "Maestro" action that happened because, I would say one turning point and one year that will really remain recorded as very important in the work of the State's Attorney's Office and as, as a significant blow to the fight against organised crime and corruption. After this action nothing else will really be the same in Croatia. I no longer think there will be this judge, a civil servant, any state official who, after this action, will demand someone carefreely, receive bribes, enter such actions, and there is indeed a very important action because we have shown one determination and it seems to me on this action that we can definitely see that those constitutional, constitutional provisions that the State's Attorney is an independent and independent body that is precisely here very clearly visible. There's no more of who can I think I'm gonna solve this thing the way they're gonna call somebody on the phone right now, so tell them to put this in some box, a little lower let's keep it waiting. No, I don't. It seems to me that all these results and especially these actions that have now taken place in this year show the determination to deal with organised crime and corruption. Therefore, the HDZ Club gives full support to the State Attorney's Office and USKOK in this fight and it is only for us to provide even better and even more quality material conditions for work and, if seen from the State's Attorney's Office's report, that through the CARDS programme and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it has made a very important effort. As far as the statistics themselves are concerned, I will not return again because the state's attorney very precisely stated the statistics in the report itself, and also in his opening presentation and reasoning he mentioned certain trends. These trends are more or less similar to those that were last year. What makes us happy is that there is an increase in the number of these reports against known perpetrators because it also points to one fact. It points to the fact that both the police are doing better and better because those unknowns, reporting against unknown perpetrators, are very, very difficult for them to do. I'd also like to look back at the work, on civil law cases. It's also a very important fact. Every year we have a trend in reducing civil objects in our work. Last year it was for 40 percent. It's 38% this year. What's he talking about? It speaks of the fact that the state has become a much better employer and a much better debtor. In time, the obligations to the believers are met, so to those who do business and work with the state. And in time, collective agreements are done neatly in accordance with obligations to employees. Because it was really embarrassing and inadmissible to sign collective agreements, certain standards and criteria are introduced that will be respected, and then the state does not pay for it. Today we see from this report that this is no longer the case, and this is the fact that we definitely need to be glad. Also, bankruptcy procedures every year, each year there are bankruptcy procedures and less because definitely in most and almost all bankruptcy procedures the state also appears as a believer. This year, this reporting period is becoming smaller and this means that the market situation is stabilised slowly and that there are fewer of these bankruptcys, that there are fewer and fewer of these procedures in which the State's Attorney's Office must represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, as far as these values are concerned, these disputes under way, the state's attorney said it was about $12 billion. Over 3 billion are procedures in which the state is a believer. Around 9 is where we are still in debt, but in any case these are the facts that in this civil-law, property-law section can greatly encourage us. Finally, on behalf of the Democratic Club, the Croatian Democratic Community, we support this report but we also support all efforts, all activities of the State's Attorney's office in a truly determined fight against organised crime, corruption and all forms of criminal behaviour. We also support the efforts of the State Attorney's Office and in the work on civil matters and in the work means all matters relating to the protection of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93347	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93348	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club, if I say so, immediately supports, not only this report by the state's attorney, which is standardly exhaustive, drawn up by the methodology of good and similar, but also by the state's attorney as an institution and everything he's been doing lately to make what we call a legal state, which is a different state than it can be legal, in order to function within these borders. Like I said, the report is standard exhaustive. Therefore, the state of crime and the loose crime by species, by the perpetrators, the geographical distribution can be seen, everything a man can wish for, learns about what happened in the criminal mile in Croatia and not only in the criminal mile, but also in the committing of crimes. Everything can be seen here. So, in the report as a document, little new can be said. We praised that report, the same methodology last year and before last year and before last year. It is likely that the next assembly of the Parliament will be praised for a year. Obviously, one standard of making a report has been reached that suits all of us because it is transparent enough for all of us to manage it, and professionally enough that even a professional audience has no objections to it. Similarly, it applies to the work of the State Attorney's Office within the constitutional definition of the protection of society against crime and the protection of the entire social system. In particular, this can be said for the detection and prosecution of criminal offences that most violate citizens' confidence in the system, which is corruption, organised crime and abuse of official duty. It is precisely in this field obviously in 2006 because significant and spectacular results are visible in 2007. In this field, the State's Attorney's Office in 2006 obviously worked hard and did a lot of work. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to comment on a few points from this report which actually seem to me to be socially interesting and where the State's Attorney's Office is taking everything it can and needs. But where you could obviously think about and systematically reform and do more, that is, where you don't really see the real problem of a huge mass of problems, of trees forest. On page 25, there is talk of drug abuse and the data is often objectively said that 75.3% of all reported users are users. So, the ones we read every day at the Black Chronicle caught on the highway exit with two grams of marijuana, three grams of marijuana, which is of course a violation of the provisions of the Penal Code. However, there is obviously no key problem. Of the big dealers in Croatia, only one was caught, and it was a good part thanks to our colleague, Ruža Tomasic. At least other big dealers can't be seen in the media, at least in public. And it is not possible that the situation in the abuse of intoxicating drugs in Croatia is such that it is only one, the only man who actually leads to the fact that every day you can read about one overdose, every day at least one young person loses his life because of such a situation. It seems to me that if it were to shrink a little bit, if the attention paid to these 75.3% of the users in terms of prosecution, I don't mean in terms of helping them, that they could be given more attention to those who really pose a social danger. On page 31, criminal acts against the environment are referred to. For environmental pollution as referred to in Article 250. Nine applications were filed last year's penal code. I don't know what happened to the others. Public indignation on pollution and individual pollution cases was significantly more than nine in the year. However, 9 were reported, 5 rejected, and only three people were convicted in Croatia for environmental pollution. If that's true, then it means that our legal regulations in that field work better than anywhere in the world, so let's commend the Ministry of Environmental Protection. On page 33, there is a crime of abuse of power in economic business, and what immediately enters the eyes is that the sum of these crimes seem to be economic fraud and abuse of power in economic business, which is, of course, true and what is our reality that we have been pushing all these 17 years. However, it is interesting that tax evasion is in accordance with Article 286. The 2006 Penal Code was 90 in 2005. 63 in the entire Republic of Croatia, throughout the Republic of Croatia. That's totally amazing. Let us take a look at how the assets of our unemployed citizens or entrepreneurs are growing in financial difficulties, so I can't pay the wages. So they obviously don't pay taxes, and as their personal property grows, they don't pay taxes. I wonder if anyone has ever tried systematically in Croatia to compare the increase in the value of the property of a tax addict with the tax paid in the previous period. If this were done, I think this crime would be far, farthest in this section against payment and business in economic crime. On page 36 day is a chart of the structure and movement of criminal acts against official duty, therefore corruptive, these are by definition corrupt crimes and the figures that are brought here are obviously real. They do not show what happened in 2007 and what will happen back in 2007. Apparently, the State's Attorney's office launched a state-of-the-art action. We were thrilled with this action, all of us, the entire Croatian public was thrilled. What's going to happen is whether the state's attorney's office is going to end up in this case, and he's done this job well, we'll see. Minister Lovrin said the other day in a tribune that it was not too soon to look forward to what had happened and that those people from the Privatisation Fund had been caught, only after the investigation has been completed and only when the court has done its job will we see how successful this job was. He needs to wish the state's attorney that percentage of his convictions are the same or better and that this case falls into that category. On page 39 there is a chart showing the structure of organised crime. The abuse of intoxicating drugs is first and foremost here, of course, when it counts for those users. It is convenient to see that due to the avoidance of customs supervision, a single person was reported by the State's attorney in 2006. It really sounds a little amazing, or beautiful to be true. On page 42, we see what happened to the cases of bribery last year. 50 persons have been reported, out of 50 38 they have been reported for the right to receive duties referred to in Article 347(1). Penalty law. In relation to 24 persons, the criminal application was dismissed because of the lack of reasonable doubt. Compared to 19 people, an investigation was launched, one person was charged directly, so without investigation. 13 people were charged after the investigation was carried out. Eight convictions have been passed, one of which is liberating. So 7 convictions for 50 cases of bribery in Croatia. We are one of the most honest countries in the world as far as this is concerned, perfectly evident, there are 4 million of us, 4 and a half million, 50 applications, only 7 people really wrong about it, so 700 or 600 thousand people in the city of the size of Zagreb, one person receives bribes, shame on us, and it certainly places us at the top, in the world's very top. Even though statistics and international organisations and NGOs are saying something different, they must be wrong because these are real data. Maybe a few words about the civil and these other affairs done by the state's attorney's office. On page 78, we're talking about advantages outside court settlements, and that's what we talked about in the last state's attorney's report. Namely, when in a working dispute, it is mostly guilty and the state's attorney says so himself in his report. Most of these procedures are lost and there's no point going into them. Em pays expensive court fees, and they pay fat interest. The state's attorney's office has been given the authority to conclude outside the court settlement, obviously it does and it is good, because the best way to protect the interests and assets of the Republic of Croatia in a situation where the government has failed to do so in this case, has failed and has not done what it should have done under collective agreements and laws. One thing I couldn't find in the state's attorney's report, and that's the information that happened with the violations of the right to work according to the article seems to me to be 114. Penalty law. There were several such cases in the previous report, so we found that the situation in Croatia is actually great, because I don't know everything about a dozen reports, so there was, in this report, no such information. I suppose that in 2006 no one, or the state's attorney's office, initiated any procedure for violating the right to work, which would be commendable if there were none, but the chance is actually very low. All in all this report has been made absolutely acceptable as regards the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian People's Party club will vote for it. I welcome once again the efforts of the State's Attorney's office to do everything possible to make this country a more beautiful place to live for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93349	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93350	In a number of selected words, a colleague addressed to the State's attorney's office also made a claim that is incorrect. Says the State's Attorney's office is doing everything they can and needs. No one knows how much he's doing, orally in Mr. State's Attorney's minutes, a few things that should be done. The Little House case, the Genere case, the case...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93351	Correction of the quote!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93352	And the Bechte case. So it's not an exact claim or an allegation that the State's Attorney's office is doing everything it can and should be four cases that I orally stated in the record that can be done much more than has been done so far. But I understand that the State's Attorney's office doesn't have a thousand hands and a thousand people, has only one money laundering expert and should be publicly supported for his great efforts to hunt criminals around Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93353	HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93354	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General. The HSP club when it gave you support for the appointment of chief state attorney we said to build infrastructure and go into a decisive account against the most radical forms of serious economic crime and other forms of crime, first of all we thought of a number of illegalities committed in the conversion and privatisation. We want to believe that during this period you've managed to build that infrastructure. We believe that the result of such an infrastructure and this action "Maestro" and that the action "Maestro" will not be a surprise before some elections, but that the action "Maestro" and the determined fight against illegality committed in the conversion and privatisation of corruption will be a normal situation where on the one hand it will act repressively against those who commit such crimes, and on the other hand, where a lot of preventive action will be made. But unfortunately when the state summit is involved in all your actions, it is already saying that the State's Attorney's Office in that part is not quite on its own as it is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because when the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Parliament, means three tenors from this level, it's already not a good solution and it's saying that there may be pressure on the State's Attorney's Office itself and that we haven't been able to put the State's attorney to the end, stand alone, because we believe that this action "Maestro" is just the beginning, and we hope that it will not stop, means the beginning of a truly determined reckoning against all that the Croatian citizens, the Croatian public, and it is ultimately that the institutions of the rule of law are their own. But in order for this to be so obvious, you will have to make this important move because when crimes are committed by the police within the Ministry of the Interior, it is not automatically possible to exclude all forms of action by the executive authorities because I say it is criminal police within the Ministry of the Interior and then it is hard to believe that the Prime Minister, the President of the State, does not know what and how the criminal police are doing, that the Prime Minister and the President of the State do not know what the Intelligence Community is doing when they are two, are the chairman of the National Security Council and when they are the heads of the Intelligence Community, when they both get a weekly report on the work of the Intelligence Community and when they have to give new tasks. But in order to do that important part, it's obvious that this part of the crime police in the pre-examination area, that part should be transferred to the State's Attorney's Office because then we'll get another leverage, an additional guarantee that the executive authority will in no way be able to interfere with the work of the State's Attorney's office. This is particularly important for the issue of the fight against narcotics and other crimes because it is evident that, despite the agreement you signed with the chief state attorney with Benko Director, there are various situations where there are no such good cooperation. This is best known here by Mrs. Ruža Tomasic who daily receives information about this part of the fight against narcotics, where it is visible to... There is even a connection between individuals or police elsewhere with those against whom appropriate criminal matters should be taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You did, too, but this part is probably after July 25th and we will finally find out what was the role of Saša Perkovic in this part of the Mesić-Zagorec affair. Did he go, you said himself that he did not go as your authority for what has been said in the media for offering this part of the denunciation or for obtaining the status of penitents, but such situations in normal states are not normal and therefore we are looking for both the government and all the relevant ones, because he cannot advise on the national security of the president of the state incognito to go to the territory of another state, that he is not being followed by the intelligence community of that state. These are basic and normal rules of conduct. And I think that such or similar situations should be far less. Let everyone stick to their constitutional and legal powers and let everyone do their part of the job, not to do those things that the State's Attorney's office actually does, which are supposed to collect cheap political points. We hope in the Croatian Party club that you are the main state attorney now that the situation at the Croatian Privatisation Fund is finally being cleared and that you will be able to move decisively to implement the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament on the sanctioning of the illegality committed in the conversion and privatisation, that is to say, looting and seizing, and in accordance with the findings of the state audit that they have clearly stated, they have monitored a thousand 556 cases. In a thousand 481 cases, they found that there were illegalities or irregularities, so 95.17%. Only 75 cases under such a bad law, i.e. the first ones on conversion, were all done in the way that the fact that both Mrs and Šima Krasic said that 60% of those cases where illegalities and irregularities were found were traits of criminal offences. The very fact that a thousand 54 criminal charges have been filed, and at the end of the sentence, I think 9 people are saying enough that the institutions of the rule of law have failed, that clearly what was meant to be done has not been done, that we are not talking about this part where there are still no concrete things, results, where no government, neither former nor present have allowed the revision of the conversion and privatisation of Croatian banks. We know what the situation was for Croatian taxpayers, or the state has invested 15 billion euros in the resolution of banks, for a billion euros and the banks have been sold. Today's value is 40 billion euros or a concrete case of privatisation of the Split Bank. That's what you have, it's a public secret. The former coalition government sold the Split Bank to Italians for 84m euros. After that, the Italian immediately resells to the Austrian for 136m euros. And they end up buying French for a billion euros. And who's going to do a job like that? Just someone, no one in their right mind is going to do that kind of work. And already that fact itself suggests that something stinks. Not to say there's no harder game to play. Thus, there are many such situations and many such cases. But I guess now it is finally, the conditions have matured, because I, myself, am also clear to us at the Croatian party's club of rights, in order for you to go on advertising to the worthless individual cases that the state audit has found to be, have found illegalities and this is equitious illegalities, that the subject must prepare you for the Privatisation Fund. But unfortunately, he didn't do it. Why wasn't he working? Well, because these people who are in the fund, they're doing it in time. But now I also call on the state summit on behalf of the Croatian Party's club to move from declarative speech that they are for a decisive fight against corruption and President Seks and President Mesic and President Sanader, to create the conditions they need according to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, to come to people in the Croatian Fund who will work their fair work and will give the main state attorney clean objects to start advertising in vain. We from the Croatian Party Club are rights to the main state attorney on the basis of and request, one 40 sure objects of such nature we have sent to him, but it should be resolved within the Croatian Privatisation Fund, because I think it is a strange situation when, let's say the Deputy Prime Minister tells us that he doesn't even know what decisions have been made in this area. I mean, it's really an interesting situation. And then a strange situation is that the ministers who are members of the boards of directors or the Arthrial Shima, who the president says, are not responsible for anything. And General Gotovina for his commanding responsibility lies in the dungeon. And they're all clean, all five, all done by someone else. So why are such or similar duties accepted? So, now those people who are the ministers, who are responsible, if they have not previously created the conditions that the principal, that you chief state attorneys have clean situations, clean papers so that they can act legally and that the Croatian public means they see that the institutions have functioned and move from that part of the declarative support, the declarative struggles. Well, that's, we heard in the debate, they're all declarative for. Let's say the former government knew the situation of conversion, privatisation in 2003. She did not take such measures as could under the regulations, without amending what we are offering another new Law on sanctioning the illegality of the conversion of privatisation. But there are already legal frameworks for advertising to the lowly, and the principle is legally in Croatia, as all normal countries, something illegal acquired can never become legal. But if you don't create these conditions and you don't start to act unfortunately it's going to happen and it's going to be one nonsensical and it's going to be one heavy stain, a black stain on this work and the work of the attorney's office and all relevant bodies on that issue. There's nothing SDP says about those who have won in good faith. No good faith when he bought from someone who wasn't the owner. Look out! They're now saying things about good faith. Take a concrete example of good faith. Here, let's say you buy a private car and in good faith check with the police that it's him, so you buy it from the owner. And after that, the police normally find out that that car was stolen, they'll come and take that car away from you, right? And they say in good faith. So what a good faith. Why do you not apply good faith in this situation? So you only apply good faith in situations where you want to protect someone. ... I don't want to be quieter, Slavena, because these are things that can't be over so easily. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now what we're finally going to tell you, what else I'm going to do individually, normally. What we have been saying for a long time in the name of the Croatian party of rights club, again there is an unfortunate position for you because in these property legal disputes you represent as did the former Ombudsman's office in the past, you represent the state means you act on the orders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The value of all these disputes is nearly 14 billion kuna according to this part. So over nine billion kunas refer to those situations where you represent the state, where the state as such is being sued. The problem is that somewhere between 70% and 80% if not more of these disputes, it's an objective situation of such a nature that you won't be able to do anything. And only the costs of court are created new, interest and all, instead of finally moving from word to deed again, that it is possible to make court or outside court settlements where time and time will be determined and how and how to pay and all other situations because we are afraid here you see, every year for one in this assembly, that amount rises. I think it was nine billion first, now here it is, it's already reached 14 billion. Therefore, we will support this report. We hope that they are finally, that you have made the infrastructure and that for a year the report that will consider the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, where we will be far more here as... The Croatian Parliament, that we will be able to see that the "Maestro" action was not an empty shot, but that it became a regular matter and the work of the State's Attorney's Office, without three tenors getting involved anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93355	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93356	Honorable Mr. President, esteemed State Attorney, gentlemen of the MPs! I personally believe that never at the right time has a report by the State's Attorney's Office come to the Croatian Parliament before this time. Croatia's next election. It'll be there at the end of the 11th month means four months. It all kind of opened up. There you go, Maestro. Judge Boris Ivancic has determined that the first hearing in the investigation into the Croatian Privatisation Fund will be 17.7. Until then, just keep our people physically safe. Istra kind of opened that "maestro" in 2006 and we're asking you to go here just to the end, to get all the scum off the social stage. And you also know that some people were willing and at the cost of assassination to do everything to preserve social property. I think the people in Istria will recognize that. Otherwise, the "maestro" case, which connects to that in 2006, praises the state's attorney's office for a valuable step. I personally believe that this is the best thing that has happened to Croatia in the last 17 years. It's the most severe blow to crime, it's no longer a play at this point. And if you have the courage then you will go solve not only those three "maesters" but also the cases of some "sopranosts" who have been working the cases of Liburnia from Opatija, etc. However, it is not only a problem with those "companists" who later received well-paid seats in some holding areas. The problem lies with those who, for example, in the Government 4.8.2005, gave consent to the agreement on the Croatian Fund's settlement and... Holding, 8.8. Signed settlement agreement, 17.8. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government withdraws the agreement, 30.9. includes the State's Attorney's Office. The case is likely to be resolved only after the 2007 elections and by 29.7. it is necessary to see and obtain the legality of these transfers of government shares to the city of Opatija and I think it will be positively resolved. Why am I saying that? Because I simply don't believe that the State's Attorney's Office will have the courage to bite into the privatisation work, because in that case, the pillars of society that Mr. Pero Kovacevic was talking about are in question. To be clear, I have no illusions about these privatization moments. Today, the biggest outflow of Croatian capital towards Serbia and Switzerland. Getting capital towards Serbia doesn't get me tangled up. In fact, it's positive because that's where the investments go, the market takes over, etc., and that's fine. But imagine, right behind Serbia our biggest investments are no less than in Switzerland, in tax havens. The biggest outflow of Croatian capital took place in 2001 in Liberia, Bahamas, Marshall Islands, Antigua, British Virgin Islands, etc. It's hundreds of millions of dollars. In moments, it means as money was threatened to return to the country, the most money actually came out of the country in 2001, for example. And that is why it is necessary to support Mr. Bajic because if he does not do this job at this time, I am afraid that this job will not be done even after the change of power. All of this in some way leads to this latest case that the prime minister has stored 19,000 pounds of gold in some of his accounts. I mean, that's bullshit clearly. So much gold didn't even have an Inca when the conquistador came in. But from where on the other hand, the prime minister's right to ask the opposition to defend him. He has to come before the Parliament or a state attorney has to tell us something about who's here today and it needs to be explained what's going on. By the way, in my court here I agree it is a blow to the very top of the Croatian institutions, both the President and the Government, and to the State's Attorney's Office and those same gentlemen who were defeated at the HDZ Assembly in 2001, if I am not mistaken, I see that you are following me well. What the state's attorney is doing today, and I'm gonna say it's not a game. All I will personally do is make a change of government but the institution should be preserved. Because if today, four months until the election, someone is playing this way with Croatian institutions, which will only be after the change of power. And I'm afraid there's a lot to block after that. And that is why it is necessary to defend institutions and then when the people who have done the most in principle for this country will leave power anyway. No one to Zagorec has united the state summit as strongly as he has. And I think that behind it are those often called Stipe Mesic, the president of the state, and that in the next four, five months, there will be an unfettered struggle to continue to clearly degrade the government and what will happen after the 2007 elections may just be thrown out. Once again I'm going to say, the biggest outflow of capital from the country imagine it happened then in 2001 when we all said that this capital would return right then. That should be kept in mind. We know that these individuals today in Vienna are grasping at straws, we understand that. I've seen him twice in my life. In 2000, four, five months after the change of power to the Committee on Internal Policy. And what's interesting is that he was first resolved and then allegedly what he was burdened with was alienated by diamonds and for the second time a year ago here in the Assembly but in the presence of the IDS secretary Mrs. Sandra Štifanić and Nedjeljko Tomic, I said if you're going to talk to me, you write a note. And that's how it was supposed to be done in Vienna and not in such a naive way as to simply run into scissors I don't know these intelligence communities. If President Mesic had turned out to be naive in some way, but this should not have happened to him after Norc and Gotovina, but surely President Mesic wanted to resolve some of the tails of the 1990s in good faith. It should not be called for but that it will be harmful before the Vienna court in this case should not be thought of. It is logical for us in Croatia that politics, for example, has "good intentions" and in Austria or Austrians, it is incomprehensible that Croatia does not recognise the division of the government in some way. I'm on Mesic's side 100 percent, but we're a little naive here, maybe because the State's Attorney's Office hasn't been better qualified by some people. I believe clearly in extradition, but after the Vienna case, there is no doubt about it. The CD will probably come out in public, so it might be better to show it at some closed session of the Parliament. What I'm going to say once again, I.D.S. is looking for, what was going on down there knows the best Mr. Bajic. Except maybe this statement of mine can hurt one of our people or make life harder is to go to the end, to get that mud and mud as it is to paraphrase Mr. Prime Minister simply clean up, to get off the social stage already once. Croatia has no higher priority than the valley to free us of any privatisation octopus of the underworld. I'm afraid, Mr. Bajic, that some people who should be persecuting someone may also be respected state lawyers. It's clear, this afternoon, we're going to pass this new law, let's say, about BUSKOK, it's a good law. How is it possible, gentlemen, that someone who was the head of that institution, who was about to pursue this criminal organization, was the next day after he lost his job and took over her defense. It's just amazing, it's not normal even though in Croatia it was possible. I knew earlier that the Croatian underworld today was somehow managed by the construction mafia. She just washes herself, comes out of those racketeering business, drugs, I don't know how to scare and so on, robbery. This is where the contractors should be sought and the Croatian Privatisation Fund has served them as a lever to reach some favourable land acquisitions above all. The second thing that law enforcement needs to do is do drugs. In the last two months since the "over-file" in Rijeka, that's the data that simply fraternized me, eight young lives died. In Istria according to Dr Ivancic since the beginning of the year two. By the way, in 2006, in Istria, six young men and girls died. In 2005, four, 2004 four, 2003 four, 2002 three, 2001 as many as nine, 2000 three, 1999 six and so on. I read there were 40 dealers down yesterday. And that's the same thing you should definitely say hello to. The workings of the drug mob must be harmless until the extermination. There's no greater evil. So let's get these drug tests into high school, high school, college. Let's do something to make a part of the money from Croatia in the 1990s, either in 2001, that's the data I found today and given by the governor of the Croatian National Bank, just to return it back to the country. Let's unearth these secret accounts for financing the Croatian defence. It's not hard if there's clearly good will. Why am I speaking in such a plastic way? First, to be understood and second, this is a material that is good, but it does not talk about concrete examples, but simply about the whole number. It's not like the state's attorney's office, I don't know, didn't do some big things. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is recognised by all, the case of Petrac, Gotovina and so on. But I'm gonna touch that for a few more moments. Page 69 of the G-sex ex-succession annex means SFRY. I think that these property-legal relations between Croatia and other countries should, above all, be resolved as soon as possible so that the one investment climate can change. It's a 70th Marine good page. How could this fall bankruptcy in the case of "Lance" or how could be compromised, I don't know, this bankruptcy plan, the position of the company, because of an incomprehensible failure to include maritime well in the bankruptcy mass. It is equally necessary to open the case of this tourist land. That needs to be resolved. That's where the "Maestro" came from. In Istria, it was successful to challenge the largest companies in Croatia in a book over hundreds and hundreds of thousands of hectares of so-called "Charles". tourism and then agricultural land whether it's a "Adriatic tourist", "Rivijeri", "Blue Lagoon", I don't know "Istra tourist", "Lagooni Novigrad", "Agro lagooni Poreč". Which capital is behind it I won't tell you now because you recognize it yourself but that question should also be solved. To end, how many states does it owe? Total litigation is unless I'm wrong about 10.3 billion kuna. 50% of that amount will in some ways belong to prosecutors. those who ask for that money from the Croatian state. That amount we know isn't in the budget. All in all, I think the Maestro action has regained confidence in the State's Attorney's Office. That's not small. This should be a clear trust to defend and further justify. On the other hand, the Croatian Privatisation Fund should be operational and those who clearly abused institutions should respond. And whether they are in Istria, whether they are in Zagreb, whether they are in Rijeka, Sibenik, Split and so on. If we don't, it's gotten into one battle where we're going to compromise. So absolute in that part of support to the state's attorney. We support the report. And another sentence Mr. Bajic spoke of. No one else mentioned these crimes in World War II. War crime doesn't seem to bother you. There was this crime all over the place. And the victors and the losers. These are people we know now closer to 95 than 85 years of age but justice should be clearly satisfied, but what is perhaps more necessary today and more relevant is how to prohibit the appearance with these Ustasha labels, hats, etc. at some concerts and not to list further or stadiums. These are provocations, and this spirit must not live in one word in Croatia. All in all, once again support to Mr. Bajic, and I think he's doing a good thing and a useful thing, and maybe in a year we'll be keeping in mind this debate today and what's been going on within the last few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93357	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93358	Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney and Mr. Agent Cain said that he was speaking plasticly to be understood. But I'm sure no one here understood him because a dog with butter couldn't put it together. But I'm correcting the incorrect allegations when he said the state's attorney has no power, no courage to resolve the issue of conversion and other criminalization in our country and on the other hand it gives him support. But he showed even good courage when he was talking about xenophobia when he came on, when he held up... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, you said in Umag when you said, you told the citizens of Umag those born in Umag if they didn't shut up that they could leave Istria. [[Intruder: Incorrect quote.]] It's a classic example of xenophobia. And you don't have the courage in Istria to point your finger at those who have actually committed crimes in conversion and privatisation. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93359	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93360	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me correct two or two of your allegations that I consider important to correct because they are truly wrong. You said the 2001 government threatened to return the funds to the outside... In 2001, as you said, they'd be taken back, taken away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then you said that right then the biggest money outflow happened and that the most money went out. So it's not true, it wasn't threatened, it was promised to the people that they'd come back to what seems now. So, a simple promise for someone is obviously a crazy joy. And secondly, you said the prime minister asked the opposition to defend him in connection with these insidious accusations that I don't know about wagons or what gold. Don't ask the prime minister to defend him because he knows it's pre-election time and the opposition keeps setting him up. However, it requires that the opposition be fenced against these diabolical accusations, in fact, in order to clear up whether we are really so in a dirty pre-election campaign or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93361	Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93362	Dear Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, Mr. Bajic, colleagues and colleagues. Here, colleague Cain had one false suspicion that he would not be allowed to speak, but indeed a high degree of tolerance of this House and its president is manifested that indeed on the occasion of this report, it is true that what he is or what should be the problem here. I see here these are falling “a dog with butter, ” but then we could also answer that some want to go around the problem as it says “a cat around a hot porridge” and I don’t think it can happen. Everything can happen, but it can't happen. This report is as usual correctly written, pedantically, neatly with lots of findings, lots of charts and indeed genreically nothing can be objected to. What if I were to evaluate when I get seminar work like this then I say excellently, almost that a man doesn't have to come to the exam because he really shows that the state's attorney respects this High House and reports that meet all those genre criteria. But this report is actually, it represents that Croatian night, Croatian darkness, Croatian mud, and that's a fact. And that's exactly how a man is ambivalent – it's actually showing that our society isn't immune from all these deviations and the worst possible ones. And what I think is that today, in fact, when we go out in praise about the structure of this report, we really need to go back to the point of the problem, and the point of the problem is whether the institutions in our society are functioning and what is the level of trust in these institutions. That is why it seems to me that what happened recently shows that we can say what Galileo's "although moving" is and that is what makes us satisfied at the Club of the Croatian Social Liberal Party. You know, this positive trend if there's this nihilistic mood that actually nothing's right and that anything can be put under the carpet it's a dangerous mood. And that mood doesn't actually generate certain or certain anarchistic elements, elements that, in fact, every time after each election, we have to move again. I think only smart people, wise people, wise people with experience always the Parliament takes over the luggage of those before they don't have to wear it twice or three times. That's the experience and those, those steps that have been made in some previous periods, we must respect the mandates. And that's why what happened proved to be when the liberal doctrine, the liberal worldview, was respected, when it was realized that the institutions were actually the soul and heart of this society that we could actually expect the reforms to succeed. I've already been here maybe parrotic, maybe bored-talking about why some, like, Jelcinj's reforms didn't work out. It is because he ignored the importance of institutions that he did not realize that only independent institutions that do not depend on political relations of forces can be a guarantee of any reform. That's what happened in Frank's post. That is why the transition lasted relatively short, and today Spain is indeed a well-organized country, a well-organized society because there were wise people who understood this importance and I think that we finally have to understand it in Croatia. All major reforms, stories of some re-industrialisation will not succeed at economic growth rates unless there is a basis on which these things can be built. And among other things, one of these institutions is the State's Attorney's Office, and that's why I want to believe that nothing can ever be the same as after this "Maestro" action. It's just that avalanche is rolling. All this may seem harmless, it may seem benign, many even try to put it in the context of this pre-election campaign, but they're wrong. You know, the avalanche starts as a lump, but down in the valley can really make a great gift of mar and I think that's what's going to happen. And it has to happen, because if that doesn't happen, then we're actually going to go back to the very beginning. Good, good, and the fact is exactly what I'm saying right now, he now spoke personally to counterpart Bajic, he says he survived the shift of power. Indeed, if one government of political power has given confidence to Mr. Bajic, and others have confirmed it, the same shows our degree of maturity that we do not really change people, that we do not introduce this hockey principle of those rapid changes, and indeed only me and my boys. With me and my boys you can drink, you can play cards, you can hang out in some things. But me and my boys can't function in, when they're acting responsible. And it is, and it is also these positive shifts and also these positive shifts we have to detect them and we have to commend them and they have to become some standard of behavior. That's why I'm not surprised at the fact that what we see is that the reaction to this action and this actually preparedness to go to the end is also experiencing these strokes that show exactly that those who feel threatened to react. I must even admit that little and can't understand when this action takes place, it is almost a consensus that there is more or less all citizens of the Republic of Croatia view corruption and bribe as one of the biggest problems, that privatisation sees indeed the source of many of our evils and that this swamp wants to dry up then you have these reactions of the type to even question the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic. No one wants to interpret Article 97. The constitution as it should be interpreted. We can now say that we may have it when the Constitution changes that we have forgotten it because it is he who is the guarantee of this presidious element in our Constitution. In some ways, these are to say these things we've freed the president of some of the elements that belong to the presidious system, but we left this article in '97 where we actually allowed him to work and certain differentiations. On the side of whether each time intervention is impeccable, whether it could be done more elegantly, and that's another thing. But the fact is that if we really want this swamp of our privatisation and all of these negative, these dark sides of Croatian society to be dried up then, I'm not a materialist, but really all the resources are allowed and we finally have to face all the names not to be selective again. Any action that has a selective character in it, so we'll do some segregation of ours and yours, that's not good. That's why I don't just know the names and last names of some families and some, but let's just see, let's really see how far this octopus has come and how deep this cancer is and will show what we can almost now and prioritize it without some large analysis, that it really belongs to all segments, unfortunately, of our society. Evil must not be relativated, evil must not be given legitimacy in this society, evil must not be allowed... as some of the protagonists are almost getting Lupenian attribution, and if that is a consensus in this House, then we have a chance to succeed. [[You don't understand.]] Because to us, there is no moon, there is no year of election, not a month and a day and an hour to fight corruption and this greatest evil in our society. If we're trying to say it relativize and say it's because of something, because of the campaign or I don't know what, some picking up cheap political current points, then we can really give up this job we're dealing with, and that's not the right thing to do. I say exactly why we will continue to insist on independence, strengthening these institutions, that these people are not changing as hockey players, but precisely if they are doing their job professionally effectively, if they are successful, if citizens have confidence in them they must remain and regardless of the changes in these relationships in these benches and that is what we stand for again at all levels, that it is worth both for the state level so that it is worth up to these local levels. In this respect, the HSLS Club will also support this report and these activities. We want to insist that there is civil and political courage to go to the end, because what is certainly not only very high-ranking corruption, it really touches exactly what someone says about the pillars of society, but it has corruption everywhere. Then indeed, it is not only reserved I do not know about with the Government, but indeed it is capillaryly descending to the lowest possible limits. I say the same thing once again, we're going to support those details that are present here, and it's certainly necessary to see, I don't know, we've been talking recently about prison sentences problems, capacity accommodation, and we just need to see in this legislation which is actually a way of reducing this pressure in some way and creating some less conditions for those people who deserve punishment. The same big problem that has been emerging in Croatia these last days, the problem of xenophobia... certain signs. [[You don't understand.]] Yesterday, a colleague, Tadic, I think, submitted an amendment when it came to electronic media, then said that this should be dealt with with with with with a very interesting finding if I paraphrase well, and I think I remember well against the words of fascist, Nazi, communist and other these totalitarian regimes. Although it would be very interesting for these others, who are these other parts of these three, but we are also really the same witnesses that certain tips of the past are still present and are trying to do what is most interesting in these youngest ones to be implemented and obviously that a constant fight against these very signs that have somehow marked our unfortunate history that they need them in a sharp, but also the same way that will be educational, which will have a pedagogical component, root out. But I have to look back here yesterday in this House, that is, in the halls of this House, something has happened, that two young people have done one, although in my opinion a wonderful provocation, held hands and then one of our former colleagues, the former representative is very ugly, in fact that I don't have this civic shame that actually makes me say, that here he could have been a representative who really has a problem with relations with same-sex communities, according to a different articulation of certain forms of love that and with those very chosen, he has honored us to protect it, not that we are really protecting only human rights, like all human rights, minority rights, we will always do it, so whether someone liked it or didn't like it, it couldn't be our own position, it couldn't be measured to introduce this particular division between what is desirable and what is unwanted, and what is precisely wronged with all of the others, and the other things that are wrongs, and the other things that are wrongs, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones that are less, and the ones that are wrong, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones that are wrongs, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones that are, and the ones that are, and the ones, and the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that they that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that I think no one's out of it, so I would also, I think that's the problem when the state's attorney should react spotlessly to any such statements, and I say more to them than just coming from a former parliamentary representative who has allowed himself the right to in a very vulgar primitive way right now comment on the position of this Assembly. I am happy that the very attitude of the Parliament is such, or a large majority, I cannot speak for everyone and what causes him to be angry. But once again, you have full support for this Croatian darkness and Croatian night, but also for what really follows us and what I believe in Croatian, to see this light at the end of the tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93363	Thank you. At 11.01 p.m., the time has expired for the 10-minute hearing, which has been registered by 10 MPs and MPs. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93364	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting, or even clarifying this inaccuracies of a distinguished colleague by saying about the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electric Media. Namely, their text means the idea of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian regimes. It applies to this part that you can't,... media incentives that are other totalitarian regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The answer is clear. We've given our amendment. It's thought of communist and theocratic regimes. Then you know what the regimes are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93365	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93366	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party club also praises the State's Attorney's report, it is indeed quality, thorough and in fact we want to give encouragement to the state's attorney to continue to work to further update the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences, but also the protection of state property. Just because we're satisfied with the state's attorney's report doesn't mean we're satisfied with the situation in the Republic of Croatia. We are not satisfied with the situation in the Republic of Croatia, but we are also aware that I am a state lawyer neither authorised nor powerful to correct, to arrange this situation without cooperation with all other institutions and bodies as prescribed in the legal order. Of course, like the other clubs of MPs, we absolutely supported the state's attorney in the "Maestro" action because we were expecting and we expect that through this action the trust of citizens in the functioning of the rule of law will actually return, that through this action there will actually be encouragement and participation and citizens in revealing what is most difficult to expose, which is corruption. And in that part, we agree with the state's attorney that it's a complicated job. We would not like to witness the consequences and finalities of this action as we have witnessed the finals of the action on the arrest and disclosure of the criminal organization when we know that everyone is free today. If this action were to end in such a way or similar way, it would be a tragedy for the legal system, and I think it would definitely kill citizens' confidence in the functioning of the rule of law, and without the participation of citizens, there is really no successful detection of crime and crime in the Republic of Croatia. So as I said, we're satisfied with the state's attorney's report because we think that he's done his part of the job, and these remarks that we're going to point out, and what the State's Attorney's office and the State's Attorney's report are telling us about, would be good to hear the government's members because in that part of the state's attorney is powerless, but the state's attorney points to some situations that should be corrected, improved and made more effective protection, I'm going to say well to this at the time of state property. In 2006, state attorneys also acted in bankruptcy cases. So they were protecting state property. In bankruptcy procedures, they reported 520 million requests from the state, most of which are claims from the Ministry of Finance, which relate to unpaid taxes and contributions. 520 million new bankruptcy claims. If we keep in mind that 447 million were reported in 2005, we must be concerned because this is an increase of about 80 million kuna. The attorney's office reports that from the coming years, a billion kunas were left unpaid in bankruptcy proceedings. It's not a mistake. It is more than 2 billion kunas of outstanding claims from the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we have to ask ourselves what reasons this is that the payment in bankruptcy proceedings is so weak, because it is generally known that in bankruptcy proceedings, the payment of claims is done little or no thanks to the lack of insolvency property. The reason is the ineligible launch of bankruptcy proceedings. The state's attorney's office says the budget has not provided the funds for the payment of advances for the costs of the previous procedure. Does this mean that in this country, authorities can't count? Not by providing insignificant resources, the state loses more than 2 billion kuna. It is certain that this is not how good masters behave. Despite this, when we discussed the proposals of the bankruptcy law and its amendments, we pointed out that the level of advances prevents the timely initiation of the procedure, the government remained unwaveringly in its ideas, although the budget is also a loser, i.e. the losers are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What else do we see from the State's Attorney's Office's report? Sam's state lawyer says during 2006 there was still too little available for state-owned agricultural land. For us in the Croatian Peasant Party this is an alarming information because this same report was for 2005. The process of availability was initiated by means of the agricultural land law and the criteria and criteria for the availability of agricultural land. The aim of the law was to create the preconditions for the creation and functioning of family economies as the basic holders of agricultural production from agricultural land. This is a prerequisite for adapting Croatian peasants to the European Union to which we so seek. Unfortunately, the new government didn't recognize that need. The process of the availability and creation of family economies has already been halted and such a policy has already stopped by the vast majority of peasants by entering the European Union is doomed and become the country's social problems. But not just that. Such a policy comes and will lead to the emigration of the rural population, and Croatia's life will be aware of life in only 4 cities and there is a problem, because these cities are not ready to accept such an inflow of the population. Is that the goal of this ruling coalition policy? It all points out that it is, but then it is fair to say this to the inhabitants of our villages so that we do not experience the fate of the last Mojikans on the defender of national traditions and culture which makes us as a people spiritually rich, and compared to other specific ones. The government even signed an agreement with farmers' associations last year whose basic requirement was to speed up the privatisation process. The peasants have been double-crossed. Instead of a socially fair system of family economies through concessions, this government creates two percent of the rich and the rest will be their superiors and only if they are lucky. These are not objections to the State's Attorney's Office, these are objections to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the attorney's office can accept criticism over the impeccable giving of views on contracts that are now not what it was in 2005, 2004 earlier. Now they assure us and they've convinced us they're up-to-date. And they can be up-to-date when there is no longer an agreement on the sale of agricultural land for the reason that the Ministry of Agriculture does not give consent to plans for agricultural land. Furthermore, one of the most important jobs in the work of the Civil Administration Department of the State's Attorney's Office is to register the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate. The register of ownership rights is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia as a whole. In view of the importance, it is unimaginable that the state has no registered property on its property. And we can tell from the report that there isn't. There's not even a record of social property, so it's a mixer with them, so it's like a mixer, which we'll probably find out a lot more about in implementing the Maestro action. And state attorneys in the collection of legally relevant documents and data have exactly in the state and other bodies benefiting from the possession of real estate or keeping records of them. In view of the value of these properties, it is hard to believe that it is purely negligence of the public authorities. In the mid-1990s, businesses were divided into political electors who had made a personal fortune in the donation, and most of them were poor. We wonder if now we have to choose political, political choices worth real estate. It is noted that there is no record of the general goods concerned by the Republic of Croatia, as regards public roads and maritime well-being. Without the book, there is no protection of extremely valuable property, coast, sea, islands and forests, agricultural land, natural resources, environmental protection. It is only possible to make the book a transparent way of making real estate available. If the government doesn't secure the conditions for the book, it gives us proof that it does not want the transparency of real estate availability. Intransparency, therefore, with no eyes to the public, various debts can be paid back and expressed gratitude, but also grant grants and create debtors that will have to be reimbursed to the government as a whole or to its individual officials. Furthermore, the State's Attorney's Office is reporting on the state of crime in the area of narcotics miles. Although the State Attorney's Office boasts of the success of the action, the fact is that in the report on the prevention of drug abuse, more and more intoxicating drug consumption is increasing in Croatia, that the market offer is increasing and higher. And if the market offer is getting bigger and bigger, we're asking ourselves how effective are we in curbing that drug supply on the market? Do we really arrest only those who have drugs for their own use or the small ones, while making them known to the people of the capitalists remain uninvited and unpunished? I think it's a worrying problem for the availability of precisely intoxicating drugs, because that availability is visible at every turn. Of course you can tell me, so it's an obligation for every citizen to report to whoever he sees dealing drugs. But citizens have no courage, and they have no courage for reasons of mistrust in the functioning of the rule of law. Some police officers themselves told me that they had arrested and arrested those who sold drugs to no less than underage children, that after two days they had found themselves back on the street and dared to threaten the police. In this way, we cannot prevent drug trafficking and availability on the market, and most tragically, for those minors. So, finally, Mr. State Attorney, we congratulate you on your actions, but we are aware that you must have support and others. You must also have support for the judicial authorities who must finally express their own right, you must have the support and cooperation of the Croatian Police, and you must also have the support of Croatian citizens. How much support you will have and trust of Croatian citizens is not only up to you, but good work depends on the completion of those actions that should symbolize the will to suppress what is called the main obstacle to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, which is bribery and corruption. It is a little startling that only 50 people who received bribes were reported in 2006. Of these 50 persons who have received bribes, 24 have been rejected, and only one case has been convicted. I don't think that's good. This is what indicates that you are not followed by those who need you, and I repeat, it depends on the citizens' trust in what you do. So, ultimately, the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the state lawyer's report by saying that we are not satisfied with the situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93367	Thank you. A SDP representative club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93368	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me immediately say on behalf of our club that we will support this report and that we will gladly accept it. We join in our praises and congratulations to the State's Attorney's Office, and we must in particular stress the great success of the State's Attorney's Office, which has been there since 2001 when this House decided that it has come to such a dissatisfaction today that it has become up-to-date, that it is acting in accordance with the Constitution, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, and that we can really be very pleased in this segment. We can also be satisfied in one part of what we ourselves have done in creating a prerequisite for this urgency of the State's Attorney's Office and, in particular, with their work to achieve and realise such an opportunity and the chances given by the Constitution and the law. However, it should be recalled once again that the State Attorney's Office is an independent and independent body in accordance with our Constitution which acts against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences by taking legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia but in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Why should this be especially reminded? Because "actions" have also recently shown that, in fact, the activity of the State's Attorney's Office when it is related to the implementation of the Constitution and the law and when it is not subject to some authority outside itself has actually led to such great results as among other things, the result of the "Maestro" action. We must clearly say the Parliament and the Executive Government, so the legislative and executive authorities have their powers legislative, political and should pass laws that need to ensure the fight against different forms of crime and criminal activity or against protection, or that they must create conditions and conditions for the protection of state and everyone's property but at the same time politics has the opportunity to move and stimulate certain actions by means of its acts, recommendations, guidelines and incentives. But what we must protect and what we must fight for, we must fight for the independence and independence of the State's attorney, or even more precisely for independence and independence within the framework of the Constitution and the law and that within the framework of the Constitution and the law... We determine their responsibility rather than the political principle, political opportunity and purpose when who assesses what form of state policy should be implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State's Attorney's Office must implement the Constitution and the laws, not just state policy. The second thing that we would like to point out in particular in this segment is very important, and this is that by opening up the space of independence and independence of our State's attorneyship that we are actually approaching all those who have already done so in the European Union countries or are about to do so by taking care of the principles that are actually being opened in the modern reform of this institution in the European course and movement at all. And most importantly, this is where you pull the line of demarcation. This does not mean that the State's Attorney's Office is an integral part of the judicial authority. The State Attorney's Office is not a judicial authority, but it is an integral part of the judiciary, and in this respect, we must, as a legislative body, especially when laws and budgets are passed, create assumptions that sufficient resources are provided for spatial purposes if you want information equipment, professional equipment, education, training of state lawyers to actually take part in their constitutional and legal function, the roles must be able to implement it, which is, again, undermining, that they can act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and take action to protect state and social property. There's more work to do in this regard. And let us not talk about the individual pages of this report, I will talk about them later on about final discussions but first we would like to point out that there is a need for us to discuss some additional issues in the Assembly. It would be good if, through the following legislative initiatives and changes, when we change between the other and the Law on State Attorney's Office, we actually put in place the obligation to report to the Council of Lawyers, and I think about it, not only what the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office is doing, but actually on the achievement of human resources policy, on disciplinary procedures, on the achievement of work. Therefore, the independence and independence of the State Attorney's Office is related to constitutional and legal powers of conduct but there is no irresponsibility and independence from labour, from missing actions, etc. In this respect, we should also take into account, as should be taken into account and related not only to the Law on State Attorneyship but also to laws governing the work of courts, so that we can actually open up space so that more quickly and quality protection on the one hand can be provided for those whose right has been violated, and on the other hand that they can be prosecuted and properly punished by those who have committed a violation of the right if it is, of course, criminal offences. And in this respect, there is still room that should be done in a legislative sense. The second thing we should particularly point out is the fact that we in the Constitution have a practically open space to prescribe one particular act, which is in paragraph 121 and paragraph 2 where it is said: "The judges and judges of the jury participating in the trial cannot be called to account for the opinion expressed or the vote in the decision-making process unless it is a violation of the law by the judges for which it is a criminal offence.". You know, in such cases, we've had opportunities to read in our newspaper certain cases where a judicial disciplinary procedure was conducted but we still don't have enough space in the Penal Code to actually implement this. It's been too long for us to get into a situation to legislate the implementation of the Constitution itself. And we had judges in practice who were actually aware of the law and caused damage and violation of the rights of others. I'm not going to tell you about taking away your land, your pensions and God's asking you what's going on. I believe in this segment that we should have a similar provision with both state attorneys and judges. When they decide whether to accept an act, they reject and continue to reject the law and carry out a criminal offence and should be further regulated and these issues should be further considered because you know that the legislative authority does not exercise strictness. But it regulates the rules of the game about the exact content of achieving this independence and independence of the State's attorney's office, so if you want the judicial authorities. That they know the scope and reach of their content and that they can work in a quality way. Thirdly, I think that both legislative and executive power, regardless of the currentity of the political moment, ahead of the elections, before the elections and so on, the pre-election, electoral coalitions should not be envied by "ad hoc" actions of the minority as affairs. We must give full support to the Republic of Croatia and to all its institutions and, in particular, to the courts and the State's Attorney's Office when it comes to some of the acts that have become, crimes that have become a monster today in Croatia to seek zero tolerance on them. It is not and must not be in a legally regulated state of tolerance for bribery and corruption. And it's not good to have action plans in this respect. The action plan must be this starting point. Zero point. And in that segment, full support and necessary resources and, of course, education in state attorneys should be given so that these works can be questioned, established and initiated and carried out either as an independent institution or in cooperation with the USKOK which again, in the end line, actually extended the hand of the State's Attorney's Office together with the judicial, with the judicial authorities. But it must not cause some of the things resulting from bribery and corruption to remain neglected. For example, we have had a report of the State Review on Conversion and Privatisation in which we have found that in an illegal manner it is of what has been audited, some 1556 companies or companies where the conversion and privatisation has been carried out illegally. In this segment, we must give full support to both the civil section, the department and the criminal department of the State Attorney's Office to move and process within the framework of existing legal provisions of this issue, and where it is insufficiently regulated by law to give their opinion and to encourage this Parliament and its working bodies to adopt the necessary legislation. Because if the Constitution says that the State's Attorney's Office is protecting state property, then it's not possible to discuss today whether or not we're going to admit that someone who illegally acquired some kind of capital and property can keep it. Because it is contrary not only to the applicable provisions of the law but, among other things, it is contrary to our Constitution and it can be limited by law. If you take Article 16 The Constitution will then see that freedom and rights can be restricted by law if it protects other people's freedoms and rights, legal order, and there is no legal order that can survive and can rest on illegality. And if it's the opposite of public morality and health. Well, of course it's against public morality. It's unfair to get to property in an illegal way. Well, you see that's where the state's attorney's office needs to act. And I think that in this segment, the State Attorney's Office should create an additional possibility that through these reports, if it is not otherwise possible and should be suggested what should be done in a legislative sense through incentives or opinions that this space for their legal and legitimate treatment could be achieved. To actually get rid of this stuff. Third, what follows in itself, no action that results, including action against bribery and corruption, must ignore and protect those I repeat the consequences like this. Fourthly, we must also create a prerequisite that we have zero tolerance for domestic and domestic violence as well as violence in general as such, as such a phenomenal phenomenon. Because what is happening is not only the result of the law that opened up the possibility that people who are at risk, who have committed domestic violence, outside the family, and so on, but also shows a trend of relatively less social sensitivity and solidarity towards individuals and towards... And the state has to react and it's not just violence in the family, it's violence I'd call it towards minority or weaker groups and sexes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this segment, too, additional measures should be taken which should be on both legislative and political and economic grounds that our state's attorneys can actually act in quality. And another important thing. You know, we've passed legal provisions that make assumptions about the quality of the handling of state's attorneys and ours, and USKOK about fighting organised crime, spreading weapons of mass destruction. Then the issue of human trafficking, prostitution, organized prostitution and so on. But it's not enough. We must, in addition to being able to praise ourselves publicly in Europe that we have legislation on these areas, we must create assumptions that our state's attorneys, our BODIES and so on can do so. And it is no wonder that final examinations include a focus on the need for additional education, on issues that provide and need to ensure quality examinations related to the criminal proceedings and so on. And is it also the extent to which certain things can be done additionally? So I think this, this report should be accepted. We join everyone who praises the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but we must also not sneak into the results we currently have. But we should continue to work on this because the issue of transition is not only about system reforms but about the system, in particular... the issue of implementation of the system itself should be resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not enough to legalise but to create preconditions and to enforce laws because laws are the means and guarantees of our personal and collective freedoms and independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93369	Thank you. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93370	Mr. President, did Mr. Arlovic finish or did Mr. Letica start? Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS Club are joining the evaluation of the majority of clubs by which this year's report of the State Attorney's Office for the period from last year in a series of aspects has been improved in a number of aspects so that it can express satisfaction with what is presented in it as a result of the results achieved, at the same time as the way these results are presented, because it is obvious that these reports are better prepared and better prepared from year to year, and we, who follow it, believe that this is indeed the result of the overall improvement of the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the overall recording of better results on the part of the State's Attorney's Office. That's why the SDSS club will also support this report and we're taking the opportunity to warn you of a few things in this debate. In addition to this general positive assessment. First, as regards sanctioning and criminal persecution for war crimes which is of paramount importance for our country and for the State's Attorney's Office, both because of the principle of justice and because of the creation of favourable ethnic and social relations, we also believe that significant progress has been made in this area. But apparently from what is in this report, it is seen that there is still room for improvement, for improvements that could and should be achieved in my opinion in the following directions. First, it seems to me that the professionality, efficiency and credibility of the State's attorney's affairs in this matter could be increased if there was further reduction in the campaign approach to the problem of war crimes as dominated in the 1990s and early 2000s, and in this sense we think in the SDSS Club that there is still room for reviewing the procedures from that period and that all those who do not have evidence that war crimes have been committed are not covered by such actions, and on the other hand that those for whom there is evidence and for which evidence can be provided that they are actually sanctioned and that they are being conducted against them. In fact, the experience we have shows that there are a large number of people who have been sanctioned without adequate evidence for them. First of all, it was about citizens of the Serbian Nationality who made it easier to press charges, made it easier to rule whether they were absent or available to our judiciary, while at the same time, such an openness in the charge and in the verdict was not applied in other cases. And I think that the State Attorney's Office can still continue and should continue, and on the other hand, that its effectiveness in the processing of war crimes can be strengthened and increased by co-operation with the State's attorneys, i.e. the prosecutors of countries in the region, notably Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and the initial results achieved in this respect, based on an agreement signed between our State's Attorney's Office and the Serbian Prosecutor's Office, show that this is a good way and that this is good for developing trust between the two countries but at the same time for sanctioning those who at one point have become inaccessible to our judiciary, and for which there is valid evidence that is enough for the procedure to be initiated. The SDSS Club also supports such efforts in this regard and believes that this is a very important way to avoid sanctioning those who are not responsible as it has often happened, while finally sanctioning those who are responsible. There's one more thing I'd like to mention about this matter, and that's the appearance of some kind of campaign in the last year. People who intervening parallel systems, parallel institutions pressure either the police or the State Attorney's Office and who find witnesses who are often not credible in this matter and who then cause serious damage to the safety of people and the credibility of the State's attorney and police, as recently happened in the Vukovar area in which six people were brought in. From that, some detained shorter, and some longer in custody, in order to eventually find that there was actually no valid evidence for them to be detained by the police, but that there was a possible reason for the police and the State's attorneys and other competent authorities to continue their investigations and see if there was any other evidence, and then only after that to take adequate action. However, on the basis of pressure from certain groups and on the basis of confidence in non-credential witnesses, however, the measures that were ultimately compromised have caused great damage to people that were created both at the same time and for their family reasons, of course, life in the community. The other thing I would like to mention about this report is the question of the former Law on Mandatory Relations, the abolition of certain provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which unfortunately were not compensated by the promised and later unrealised substitutes for what is the Law on Mandatory Relations, which has been in force since '96. years made it possible for people. Namely, many people whose homes outside the war area were either mined or destroyed in some other way have initiated judicial proceedings. These court proceedings were first frozen. After that, many people were abolished and found themselves in some kind of legal void, as their right was not protected until early 2000 until two, or three laws were passed, on the basis that they could in some way give me the opportunity to protect their rights in this regard for compensation for their destroyed property. However, it happened that in the beginning of 2000, laws were passed at the time of the coalition government, the Law on Compensation was caused by terrorist acts of public demonstrations and the Law on Compensation of damages caused by either the Croatian Army or the Croatian Police, and that law allowed compensation for the loss of life and physical damages, but at the same time did not allow compensation for, or prevents compensation for damages caused against property rather than referring to another law, which is the Rehabilitation Act. And then it actually happens this, that somewhere around two thousand cases still stand in our courts because these two laws, these first two laws regulate property protection, property ownership, and the Law of Reconstruction regulates the right of people to go home. And since people have found themselves in a situation where these first two laws need to protect their right to property, or property that has been destroyed, and this other law needs to provide them with the possibility of having a home that they could lose. Since the property was rarely not only a primary home but at the same time property that people used for rest or for some other purpose or were family houses they owned, they actually found themselves in a situation where they were given something under one law, and another law did not allow them to do so anymore because they were asked to have a residence at that address. In other words, their property is not actually protected because they do not reside in that address but they reside in another address, and we think that this House, either the Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court, would have to bring some sort of interpretation about it, because these two laws are actually in collegiate and the State's attorney is in a situation that cannot act in this respect as well as those cases are referred to here and stands, to the competent ministry, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which, again, cannot act on the basis of these first two laws but under the Law of Reconstruction, and the Law on the restoration of these people de facto does not allow them to compensate for the damage caused by the reconstruction process, because the renewal process is actually the only ones who have a residence there. And we should certainly change that, and after the talks that we had with the State Attorney's Office, we will ask either the Presidency of the Parliament, or another competent institution to ensure some kind of authentic interpretation so that this conflict that was created by the action or the validity of the two laws, or different laws, which goes to the harm of the damaged people, can be removed. The third thing is property that's illegally possessed. The state's attorney's office mentions we still have 127 cases. Such objects are probably more than that. Because few people have not arrived or are not able to initiate court proceedings such as the case of people whose country is occupied in the area of the Zadar hinterland where large quantities of agricultural land are concerned and who for various reasons have not been able to initiate this type of procedure, but also these 127 cases are after all, so practically after so many years we have managed to return the property to most people or almost total assets that have been put on temporary use, these 127 cases are actually large in view of the length of these people waiting for that property to be returned to them. And given the fact that if anything else is then injures the principle of a reasonable trial period and what the State's Attorney's office seems to be trying to make additional claims go against those who abuse judicial mechanisms in order to stay in the property they're illegally using, it seems good to me, but at the same time it seems to be more efficient and faster activated. And finally. The representation of members of national minorities in the State Attorney's Office certainly does not fall within the lowest threshold of what we have in our judicial institutions, but it is still below half of what law and legal acts actually need to guarantee, which is that we have a proportionate representation of members of national minorities in judicial institutions including the State's Attorney's Office. I hope that for the report, the following will be received, which will refer to this reporting period and that picture will be more favourable than in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93371	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93372	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct Mr. Pupovac's incorrect claim that there is a campaign of individuals or groups and pressure on state bodies, the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary in procedures that do not have credibility and legitimacy through witnesses. It is incorrect to campaign or any kind of pressure rather than democratic expression of associations or individuals who are the real victims of the Homeland War and have their democratic right to declare what they have experienced and experienced, as well as that it is incorrect to use unworthy witnesses, because the most credible witnesses is Slavo Strbac and his Veritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93373	Thank you. The individual debate at 13.00 is the vote, I call and remind the MPs and the MPs that at 13.00 hours is the vote. We have 40 laws and other decisions. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93374	Your Honor, Mr. President, the State's Attorney's office is like medicine. So if you're leading a messy life, if you're smoking, if you're desperate, if you have seven chronic diseases and come to a doctor and say return my health, it's not possible to do it. That's why we can't expect any more from the State's Attorney's office than we can give him. On several occasions, I was talking about the need to create a consensus that I called the Croatian Anti-Corruption Union or "haso" but in order to create this, it must not happen that we practice the spine of the demagogue which yesterday dealt with the future coalition between HSLS and HSS which, for pre-election reasons, withdrew its people from the supervisory boards but at the same time decided not to withdraw its people from the supervisory boards, but at the same time decided not to withdraw their people who were partyly appointed by the board of profitable public and other companies. Therefore, gentlemen, if you want to fight corruption, we must come to an agreement and not wage party wars. That's not enough either. Croatia's anti-corruption climate needs to be created. How? Evil is seductive. I'll give you two examples from the last Globe, which my housemates, specifically my wife, have brought to my attention. For Željko Antunović a permanent woman for her so-called so-called The profile based on reading the body's speech and it says to her, "The prison guard acts as hard as a machine and shakes hands like a dagger." For the model prime minister, in turn, Sanader, the same lady says: "Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is holding himself upright, almost royally, he's too high, he's got his chest out, his head is up, he's tense and he's walking."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93375	Let's get on the subject, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93376	They're typical. Excuse me, that's the essence of the subject. Just be patient because.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93377	A report on the work of state attorneys in 2006, not the psychological characteristics of certain people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93378	That's you. Comrade Shakespeare, I count you as a man who understands the essence of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93379	I understand, and you understand the Rules of Procedure, and I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93380	They're typical signs of aggressive, arrogant and a bit of an arrogant person.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93381	Get it over with. I'm warning you, and I'm warning you, I'll take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93382	Okay. So I wanted to find out who this person is who writes such monstrous structures. She's an associate of journalist Jelena... And it was distracted that she was an aunt from kindergarten and belonged to one of the opposition parties associated with organised crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93383	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93384	Now apologize to me for trying to take away my word, because that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93385	I'm not going to apologize to you, I'm taking your word from you now. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93386	Did you take my word?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93387	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93388	You should be ashamed of the President of the Parliament because you do not want to fight organized crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93389	I take away your word and punish you with a warning because you are misbehaved in the ultimate way. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go. ... I'm not a boaster, you're a misbehave. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93390	Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney. I just wanted to take a brief look at this part of your report that you've been working on particularly violent behavior in the family for the past few years. Of course, as I have done in recent years, and I can now say that I welcome the efforts of the State's Attorney's Office, so that this one issue should be discussed through my own report in a special chapter. What is shown in this report and it is clearly said is that in fact all data indicate a large number of reports when it comes to the increase in reports of domestic violence. Of course, somewhere I feel like there's going to be some sort of eternal dilemma. I don't know if it's even possible to determine exactly how much this increased number of applications is, on the one hand, the result of encouraging victims, so that violence is reported, and how much on the other hand it actually points to an increase in violence and domestic behavior. There's probably a combination of each other somewhere. But what I'm actually going to ask is a question because of some of the differences that are in the statistics and the number of reports that we have in the police reports and the report that we have in this State's Attorney's Office report. Namely, in the State's Attorney's Office's report, if we consider this table number 23, it can be said that it can be read that the total for last year, so we're talking about a criminal application reported by a thousand 272 violent behaviours, which is an increase compared to 2005. But according to police data for the past year, police have filed a thousand 985 criminal charges for the crime of domestic violence, so I may not know, I don't understand, and I expect a response to the disappearance of some 6 hundred police criminal charges. What seems extremely important to me to point out when it comes to domestic violence, and what seems to me is somehow not enough when we talk about fighting domestic violence because we all often mention legal provisions, we often mention national policy strategies, protocol, etc. However, on page 90 of the State's Attorney's Office report, this data shows a continuing increase in applications, and appreciates the fact that in most cases the victims of domestic violence are women and children cannot be satisfied with the sanctions imposed. State lawyers must propose a level and type of criminal sanctions to protect victims from further abuse. So here, in fact, somewhere in that sentence, in some way, that in this procedure of punishment, let's still, in relation to the perpetrators, let me kind of express myself lightly, perhaps or too easily, to treat the perpetrators themselves in some way in a way that ignores the way in which it then reflects the victim. You yourself have also indicated something in this report that it is necessary to pay full attention to the development of various preventive and treatment programs aimed at the protection of victims' damages and to the prevention and prevention of child abuse against children and violent behavior in the family in general. I also support this view of yours, i.e. this view of yours, because it seems to me that in this area when Croatia is without it, I repeat, regardless of the laws on national policy strategies and the protocol that we are actually paying too little attention to prevention when it comes to violent behavior, including domestic violence, and even less I would say we pay attention to the attention and treatment programmes. I will only mention in this case some data that are actually devastating to me when we talk about the misdemeanors the police have made in relation to the perpetrators of domestic violence when it comes to criminal proceedings. At that time, more than 15,000 and 2 hundred requests for a misdemeanor were filed last year. However, it should be said that some measures are then proposed. Among other things, and measures of psychosocial treatment when it comes to a bully or a restraining order or a measure of distance from the apartment, etc. And compared to the Police's proposals, a very small number of such measures have been put in place. So I'll, for example. to say that when it comes to mandatory psychosocial treatment, police have proposed for the past year such treatment in four thousand 591 cases. In just about 30 or 40 cases, the courts gave such a measure. Or, for example, in the case of a restraining order, a ban on harassment or stalking of a person exposed to violence, it is, for example, of 285 such applications were made only 45, and only 91 were made out of 508 measures from the apartment. One of the reasons why so few applications are respected when it comes to these special treatments and dealing with the abusers among other things that you in Croatia, regardless of the fact that a special rule was adopted sometime in the summer of last year, is in fact not yet known where the psychosocial treatment of the bully can actually be achieved. Or, for example, When it comes to a distance from home, regardless of the apartment, regardless of the property, of course the question arises, and where will these thugs actually stay? And when we are on that occasion and this time I must also take advantage of the opportunity to say that in that part when it comes to the care of victims of violence, we are absolutely not doing enough, and we are actually on the one hand in some of our shelters for women victims of violence and their children are having malfeasance, and it is contract institutions. On the other hand, one part of such organizations, of course, continues to cobble with money and survive from today to tomorrow. And finally, also encouraged by my colleague Ljubica Lalić's debate, I must say that I think it is already becoming actually worrying data that, in fact, from year to year, not just some others, but reports from the State's Attorney's Office, which is when it comes to the forms of criminal activity related to the use or abuse of intoxicating drugs. And I'm just wondering, when will somebody in Croatia finally wonder how we have an ever-increasing number of people reported for the use of a joint and a growing number of applications and penalties for those who actually make those children available? I just want to remind you that in the last month or two there have been several cases of overdose and even one if I'm not wrong about trying, or committing an overdose murder. But it seems that, regardless of the public cries already made by some parents when it comes to the disclosure and arrest and punishment of drug dealers, it is obvious that in Croatia at least there is not enough strength, desire, will, I do not know what to deal with this problem because it seems that it is the easiest thing to catch somewhere in some disco club or in front of a disco person with a joint, and it is much harder to catch those much, much bigger fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93391	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93392	So I think this colleague has made it completely wrong, that there is no power in Croatia, to deal with drugs. Even the last arrests and searches, etc., show a very successful struggle. But a colleague forgot to ask why there are more and more people who enjoy marijuana? Maybe the SDP helped with that, too, because every president boasts that he enjoyed marijuana, so the kids want to look up to respectable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93393	Thank you. I'd like to appeal to MPs and agents to take care of the weather, and that here, at 13 o'clock we should vote, to try to economicize with time. Dear representative, it's... For short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93394	Dear Mr. President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues! First, as my colleague Markovanovic mentioned and alluded to the late SDP President Ivica Racan and the current SDP president Milanovic, I would ask myself what Mr Markovanovic is taking, and what is so bad about his health that he says such nebulosis, these things are offensive that are below the level of this House of Commons? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is my statement behind which I stand entirely. This is normally my view that this annual report is a very high-quality collection of misdemeanors that occur in Croatia, but also a description of the situation in those institutions, instances that should treat these misdeeds and sanction those who do them. Mr. State's Attorney mentioned the necessity of close cooperation between the State's Attorney's Office and the Police, and he noted that in the future it would actually be something that would be even more connected. I would also use my argument to ask myself, first of all, that the police in a lot of cases are very good, solid, so we can say sometimes they're doing their job well and sometimes we're wondering as citizens how to get the police here, that's where they were mentioned and what I know about drugs, etc., bringing some people in, but then at some other instance there's a release, etc.? So you don't always blame the police. But this time I wonder when it comes to corruption and affairs that have shaken Croatia for the last year, and above all I would mention the "Brodosplit" affair, I must really look back on the work of the Split-Dalmatia County Police Administration under its jurisdiction regarding the affair. We have one side of the State's Attorney's Office, on the other side of the police department. The police department, or their Department of Economic Crime, was in charge of investigating it. This investigation took a snail's turn. It's a mild one, it's a euphemism, a mild expression for how it ran. She didn't run at all. I don't think it's ever finished. In fact, at the very beginning of that investigation, some police authorities rushed to make a public statement that this was not about any illegal acts, which was very unusual because the investigation was still ongoing, which they were tasked with, from some who were in charge of it, to run with such a statement. Later, it turned out that it wasn't exactly like that. And I'd say to myself this time, fortunately, the State's Attorney's Office has endured and has taken some moves that are not common, but in this case they were obviously necessary and I hope they will be fruitful. Namely, the State Attorney's Office has prosecuted this further and referred it to the court without waiting for the end of an investigation conducted by the Police Administration of the Split-Dalmatia County which I am as a parliamentary representative and as a citizen interpreting it as an obstruction by the police, which is for me, I mean specifically to the Police Administration of the Split-Dalmatia County and those who were in charge of this investigation to conduct it. In my view, this is one situation that says that conflict, conflict, and opposition between those who should work closely together. In this case, above all, by a police administration who hasn't done her job properly, according to me, and I've said it publicly many times and here for this Assembly speaker. And now that we're talking about the annual report, I think we should do it again, commend the State's Attorney's Office for not having come to the conclusion that it was expected by not waiting for it to take action to move forward, or towards the judiciary, according to the court. I think it's the only case in Croatia and we really need to ask ourselves now. My question is quite logical as a parliamentary representative whether someone will be making any concessions in that police administration for such behaviour or for me an even worse qualification of obstructing the investigation of what is involved in the BrodoSplit affair. So we're coming back to that famous responsibility issue. As far as drug abuse around here is concerned, a lot of colleagues have spoken, obviously there will be a politicization of this and that. I would really like to commend this report on the fact that from the figures mentioned there, it is quite clear that Article 173(1). The penalty law is exactly the one most to say so in use, so the younger adult, which is to own small amounts, let's say one joint, or as reported in the report, is sometimes a cigarette smoke, so marijuana. You are already subject as a minor or a minor, or any person to the restrictions of the Penal Code, and you are in a certain way entering the record as a kind of way a criminal is said in our society. There's a problem. Can we boast that 76.8% of all reported drug abuse among younger adults actually came under the influence of this Article 173(1), or 74.4% came under the influence of this article of all minors. So enough that he had as reported in the report the cigarette of some marijuana. I mean, I'm just saying we wouldn't fool ourselves. Well, it's not a drug fight. No, because at the same time he fell slightly but fell, the trend is negative. So the trend of catching drug dealers or those who are de facto is already entering that sphere that we find very dangerous for the spread of this monster. It's just about whether we're going to criminalize those who are victims, patients, etc. And maybe that's how they sometimes show up through numbers as a successful fight against drug abuse. However, as far as this State's Attorney's Office and other matters are concerned, they actually apply such criteria to these persons to get half or something less under attack and the rest are de facto released. So, the story of marijuana, so no one's into spreading any drug abuse, any marijuana. I have no idea what to call it, it's just that we find the most effective way to fight this monster and without perhaps jeopardizing the fate of young people at the age at which they still don't have enough responsibility to answer for some of their actions that are still so insignificant that they shouldn't come under the influence of the Penal Code. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93395	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93396	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to fix my colleague because he said two things. First, he wondered what I was taking. Second, to lower the level of this Parliament. First of all, I have to say, I'm not taking anything and I don't see what I said wrong because both of your presidents boasted that they consumed marijuana, so I said exactly. Secondly, as far as the level of this home is concerned, me and Mr. Jurjevic have been making up affairs on a regular basis, which can be a real consequence of hallucination after taking intoxicating drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93397	Second correction by the respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93398	Dear Mr. President, also two incorrect allegations that a negative example of taking even marijuana does not affect young people. This certainly does not stand because we know that young people are very happy to relate to celebrities. Another, decriminalisation of drug use can lead to such negative effects on legislation as I experienced in a neighboring country where a local court seized 1,000 kilos of heroin assigned families to personal use. Yes, in next door, one of our neighbouring countries I was alone as a minister the court ordered 1,000 kilos of marijuana to be for personal use. Is that what we want? No, I don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93399	Third Amendment Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93400	A colleague named Jurjevic said you shouldn't criminalise one cigarette and one joint. Let's finally figure things out. Drugs are evil. Drugs is one of the greatest evils of modern civilization. And of course, it's not for me to treat just as much as one criminal who resells drugs, it's getting rich and destroying young lives like the one you said who took one joint or took one cigarette. We must view drugs as one great evil. And I'll tell you next. For me, it was an evil statement from your former party boss as well as today that they tried drugs and it's evil because those messages have malice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93401	Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93402	My colleague Jurjevic, I absolutely agree with you when you point out the need for the co-operation of the state's attorney with the police. It is inevitable co-operation, however, is not enough to fight crime effectively. There is a need for cooperation with citizens. And if that's the case, we're going to take an example of the exploitation of mineral raw materials that is in the jurisdiction of suppressing illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials where the state's attorney says 222 lawsuits have been filed and the state's investigation against them is 438 million kuna. And only 100 million kunas were charged. So if this 221 lawsuit was filed, the question is how many more lawsuits there are and because there is even a known thing that there are illegal exploitators of mineral raw materials. For example, the stone Bounds,... from Okuchan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's a well-known thing to exploit a rock, to lay waste to a variety of land. I personally filed an application with the competent ministry, however, the competent ministry says it is possible. So if every citizen reported it, but the police can't walk on the hills, question and find out who's digging where? But if we have the participation of the citizens, of course, it's more successful. And with regard to these drugs, the amendment to Article 173 itself will not solve the issue of drug abuse. The problem is that the system introduced in 2001 is not further improved by the adoption of the Law on the control of drug abuse. There is no political will to perfect this system and ultimately it represents a decor, and we citizens have the right to wonder who actually manages this system of ours against drug abuse? Unfortunately, all points to the management of those who earn their lives, the health of our youngest. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93403	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93404	When I was talking about the police, the relationship between the State's Attorney's Office and the police really referred to a particular case that I think is white, it is obvious that in an investigation that was to be conducted by the police administration of the Split-Dalmatian County has obstructed the investigation. In my opinion, the State Attorney's Office said in some way when it took further action without waiting for the end of the investigation. As far as this drug story is concerned, I know about drugs that there's going to be politicizing and very untasteful. I will never tell Mr. Markovanovic you and yours, because I am very much sharing you with many people here who are HDZ and I am not putting anyone in a bag of any kind. Neither national nor party, nor class, or whatever you want, native and so forth. I share every single one of them. Unfortunately for you, I mean what I think. It's not commendable for you, but it's my personal matter. This is a replica, yes. ... You, not yours, but yours. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'll never tell you and yours. And beware of such forgiveness and so forth. And the fact that we've been taking drugs from the SDP, so we've been making up stories that's what I mean at the level, it's not at all at the level, it's below the level of pardon. And there's one more thing I'd say, we're not going to get rid of a problem like this that's bothering us all, that's the truth. And I really think everyone well-intentioned, there's a lot of those who want to end it. I'm only afraid of that hypocrisy that, speaking of drugs, we amnesty alcohol, alcoholism and the consequences of alcoholism, and by society, it seems to me that they are more difficult for society itself. And the brains of individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93405	Replicated representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93406	I thank my colleague Jurovic. I would not, in particular, refer to really some unbulful statements that are heard here in the Croatian Parliament but also to your discussion when it comes to drugs I would have directed all of them to read the reports of the State's Attorney's Office if they hadn't done so, and then you could see that on page 25, it says: "Data from the chart below show that in the decline of applications for the serious form of this crime referred to in Article 173(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code." And further: "It's not a good movement because the focus should be on the increased discovery of manufacturers, drug dealers and organisers because it is an orientation that can affect drug reduction on the drug market and thus reduce the number of new consumers". From word to word, this is in the State's Attorney's Office's report, which, if I'm not mistaken, will support today's HDZ colleagues. Well, I guess it'll be in line with what's written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93407	Reply to the replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93408	I think what the report says best is about our intentions here's who we're talking about, and this isn't the first, and last year's report, and last year's report found the same things. I would like to remind my HDZ colleagues that even during HDZ, there was not always this article that criminalised the possession of small amounts of here a joint, a cigarette, etc. Especially when it comes to these underage people and when it comes to younger minors. It's sensitive, and it didn't occur to anyone that then condemns HDZ that it was, at that time, a drug abuse because it was at least half of HDZ's term in the '90s so arranged for what we're up for, so it's changed, so it can change again. So it's a deal, not an insult to each other when you talk about this problem. In my opinion, the state lawyer, or this report he wrote, has written his associates and he has been in an excellent manner for two years in a row warning in an indiscreet, fine way. He's not here to salt our brains. He's here to point us through numbers. Anyone smart enough to want to understand the well-meaningness that comes from the State's Attorney's office that nothing changes in this way, and we question the fate of some people, I assure you. Young people, I'm not talking about us. I'm talking age groups about minors and minors. Let's not make their lives miserable that they've been chased away all their lives by criminals because once they've been benignly missing in life, nothing else, nothing less or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93409	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93410	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, head of state... Don't. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I checked in on time, Mr. President. Don't discriminate. Ask your associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93412	Yeah, it's true you called. However, according to Article 210(3), when the speaker and the second time when he is warned and when he loses his right to speak after the notice, he writes in paragraph 210(3), in that case the representative cannot participate in the debate on that item of the agenda, on that subject of the agenda. Thank you very much. Yeah, I'll get...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93413	You should be ashamed because I wanted to explain the theory of modern corruption...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93414	You're getting an additional warning with...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93415	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93416	It's true, yes, yes, yes. You're so is that one fine measure of decency, one example of decency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93417	Let's get back to the subject. I think let's go a little analytically and realistically look at all the issues and what we're looking for from the attorney general. So we're looking for a decisive reckoning against all forms of organised crime against sanctioning, robbery and robbery in conversion and privatisation, sanctioning war profits, sanctioning tobacco smuggling, oil smuggling and oil derivatives. These are huge amounts, and all this happened primarily during the Homeland War while defenders defended the independence of the Croatian state, others robbed the country. The further we delay this final charge with organised crime and with all these situations those who have acquired such property, in an illegal manner, they are slowly managing the state. They're slowly already running the country. They have capital. They are therefore now having methods of action that have adapted the situation that is happening and now subtly, subtle methods of action. And now they're going to a new form of corruption, one part of the corruption of another illegality. They are now being thrown into the area of urban plans, GUPs and everything else, and this is the variant that they gradually insert their people into city heads or various representative bodies, land that is as such or green area or other is not intended as part of where they are to be built, bought for the bogeyman, and are then legally conducted either through the City of Zagreb Assembly or another assembly. So those are the kind of ones that even pretend to be mechanized, benefactors. They also establish foundations and all other situations and further delaying resolving this issue, but there cannot be a single attorney-general to do anything as long as it is spoken out of a level or SDP or HDZ or three presidents until it is passed over from word to action it is unlikely that Croatian citizens will not believe that something will succeed in that part. Let's just say we take the situation. Yesterday we had a press conference in the Croatian Parliament with representatives of “We”, small shareholders d.o.o. in bankruptcy, TDZ Zagreb. Part of the media didn't publish it at all. Normally, he did not publish it because that part of the subtle action makes it impossible and objectively informing the public because these are the variations, which they are, should be made public, and shown by some media are now even owned by those who have come to property in an illegal manner, and therefore I ask you to give you a public statement as far as the subject of the workers of TDZ Zagreb has arrived, as long as the worker “Nam” has arrived, “Croatia bus”, “Development”, concert directors of Zagreb and various other cases and cases where there have been spoken on this side, say Vukelić or some others in the Government, on the other side of Čačić, Linić and all others. Here I think that's it, that would be that part of that. The worst situation in Croatia is that one affair replaces another affair, but not that the relevant bodies publicly say this is an affair. We've established a state of fact. There are no criminal acts, but unfortunately the affairs are how the public perceives and evaluates products purely for political competition, political competition, and I know since you have all the information you have and what the problem was that the responsible at the Croatian Privatisation Fund did nothing to do with what they received from any of us MPs, any of the disreputed workers, any of you. What you've done here and what's to be expected. But I am saying, we must be aware that what we are delaying these situations will solve them, that this perfection will go on that in the end they, the second generation of those who robbed and robbed Croatia will be honest and honest citizens, they will be be benefactors, they will be donors, and what we are going on next is difficult because this and such capital means illegally acquired, unfortunately, serving and participating in election campaigns in the financing of political parties. So the problem is very wide, the problem is big, and that's why it needs to be looked at from this aspect and from this point of view, and the most important part is that this part of the Crimea Police enters the bar and that finally the executive power of neither the President of the State nor the Prime Minister has any authority or influence whatsoever and that this part of the State's Attorney's Office, the Croatian Parliament, is this relationship in terms of what we all want. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93418	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93419	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You mentioned Mr. Linic and Mr. Cacic here in one negative context, even from your debate, at least I understood that they were criminals. I just don't believe it. On several occasions I read in the papers and watched on TV where people said they weren't criminals and I trust them. So if a man says he's not, I trust him. So I think this observation of yours is so little on the nod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93420	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93421	It seems to me that my colleague Lonchar deliberately misunderstood me, and I, as a lawyer, never use such expressions. I can only say there is a reasonable doubt, there are indications or similar legal expressions for this situation, but I said it only one example of what happens to let's say colleagues from HDZ say about Cacic that and so on, but unfortunately the relevant bodies don't respond to it. The flyer said it was a 99-centimeter case with the state's attorney general. That's what's not good for public perception. Let's see it means all these affairs, all these cases that the answer says to the authorities, but in time, not to end up under the carpet. Let's say a concrete example is the one about... Tonnes from the Brijuni transcrypts. [[You don't understand.]] In the end, we all gave Mr. Mladen Bajic a decision to make, and the government could immediately tell whom she had downloaded the declassification and for which needs could be used. Here's one of the forms where the executive power is, in fact, that's all we've solved, so let's give it to the state's attorney's office and he has to ask the government what she did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93422	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable state attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Telegraph. It is important to note that the State Attorney's Office is an independent, independent judicial body and that only a report is submitted to the Croatian Parliament. The second thing I'm saying is, the report is transparent and informative. Statistical results are better in 2006 than in 2005. The statistical Croatian Parliament can be satisfied. The problem of crime especially corruption in Croatian society and the Croatian state, the Croatian Parliament cannot be satisfied and neither can the state lawyer. It is undeniable that Croatia has been designated by the European Union in the European Union report on the situation in society, in Croatian society, Croatia as a country to be braked due to the state of crime of particular corruption in the EU accession. Now, let me add to the current situation. "Maestro" is a spark of the state's attorney and the hope of Croatian citizens that light will turn on over the dark sky of Croatian corruption in the country, but too much is now political interest involved in the judicial and police action "Maestro". I'm afraid it's a bad omen. Third thing I want to make a telegraph note. The government mentions that it has equipped state attorneys technically, so computers and other necessary equipment, the state attorney mentions in his report in two places that it is technically insufficient, that technically insufficiently equipped lawyers and that they are not technically connected or that the case tracking system is secured at technical level. Third thing I want to say right behind this. It's an interesting statistical data, so I'd like the state's attorney to say more specifically about it, that the success of a state's attorney in the process of general crime is about 87%, and in the corrupt bodies around 50%. That discretion requires a clearer report from the state's attorney. And finally, to say about civil affairs, the State's Attorney's office was asking for one billion and 600 million in executive procedures alone. But on page 92, I will quote: "The state's attorney's office finds it indisputable that citizens and legal persons from the state always collect their claims even in an executive procedure which unfortunately is not often the other way around." In other words, the state's attorney means that individuals are stronger than the state and its institutions, which is not a good message on the organisation of the state, and somewhere below is also mentioned about tax claims and even the state's lawyer suggests that the state is provided with a mortgage on the property of legal and physical persons which, of course, can be one of the forms of protection of the state's interest, but the best is the tax administration and good records of taxpayers and tax duties. So my assessment is that the State's Attorney's Office has indeed given quality data for a good debate on the work of state attorneys, on some shortcomings in equipment and assistance to the State's Attorney's Office to better and more effectively prosecute crimes and at the same time worry that the discrepancy gap in the assessment of government and state's defence of equipment, so what really depends on the government's equipment of state attorneys, technical assistance and connectivity. So, of course, thirdly accept the report and ask to strengthen the activity of the State's Attorney's Office and its own, especially on corrupt parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93424	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93425	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I, looking at this report, can say that I am pleased to say something about war crimes and the processing of war crimes stemming from this report. It has been seen to have been done a lot on one side and on the other, but it is not possible to accept the thesis that some groups or individuals are putting pressure on either institution or the State's Attorney's office. There is no pressure, but a democratic consideration that equality must apply to all, so we would like to stress in particular that both Croatian defenders, people with disabilities of the Homeland War, have their own opinion on the equality of detention, sanctioning and procedures towards all Croatian citizens alike. So it can't be for one like this, for the other one, so as Mr. Bukovac, he thinks someone's putting pressure on him. That is not true, but as he does in the Croatian Parliament, he speaks clearly of the interest of his views and opinions as well as associations speak of their own. I would also refer to what in our county is an occupation, which is Chetnekovac, Cojluk, Balenci, Voćin and unsolved cases, i.e. The charges that have been filed, the absence of judgments and what I have learned that at certain times they have not been brought forward in due time, I don't know if they are today, but it can be checked because the real people in that area are asking for the culprit to be known, and given the interstate cooperation today, I think that we should go on and that we should really go once for the crimes that are being committed today by a television team of reconstruction events, we hope that we will see it on TV soon and that this will also help in further lighting. There are also new witness statements that indicate that they have identified certain persons who have been strictly involved in the massacre and should be sanctioned. I'd like to say something, given that the time has elapsed, and the war crimes that took place in '45, '46. And for those war crimes from those times of communist totalitarianism, it can be said that only one case in 2007, I think that in Karlovac he was charged and we'll see how he gets out. However, speaking of this report that there is not enough evidence, I believe that there are not enough living witnesses, that there are not those who can authentically testify and tell the real truth. However, I remember a statement when anti-fascists raised their voice, including former President Fumic, along with Rada Bulat when they testified against themselves that they had killed the gang and had no one to answer to. I think it's just a confession to Rada Bulata in a statement in the daily press that she's clearly talking about committing a crime that he has no one to answer for. If we are all equal in front of the state justice system, before the state's attorney's office, the judiciary and the police, I think such cases as Jazovka, such as Bleiburg, such as Limbush and all others must be treated equally. For some and personally I know, at least in my neighborhood that there are living witnesses who have watched the execution and the hummus and are still alive today. Hummks remained buried in the bodies of innocent civilians and possibly soldiers who had never been tried, but were judged as someone had thought of it. I would therefore like to say that this one trial which has been held for the crimes of World War II should also be continued, but I would also like to emphasise something also concerning the latest accusations through the press and for myself as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as for the Mayor of Virovitica that I have called on the clear and loud State Attorney's Office both on the county and on the municipal level that this case shed light on possible culprits, that I am willing to testify about my innocence and prove it and I want to clarify this notion of who did anything in the Grubiš Polje, and in the meantime I have raised charges against those who have put such insinuations. I think this report speaks of quality, as well as curves that show defendants, convicted, accused, convicted and released recently since '98. somehow they really come into one 10 percent deviation and I think it should be a measure of work and the police and the judiciary and the judiciary that can't be a deviation like it used to be in '96. Let's say that the number of convicted against the accused is 80-20 in favour of these. I don't think anyone did their job, that the job should be done specifically when only 10% of them have missed or dropped or acquittal charges. I think that the Croatian judiciary should be equal to all citizens and what someone wants in the Croatian Parliament today to respect that the Serbian nationality is treated differently or the use of non-authentic witnesses. I don't think so. Yes, one of the untrustworthy witnesses is certainly Savo Strbac, who has his own actions against the Republic of Croatia, against its citizens and as an organizer of the rebellion in Croatia, should certainly be among the prosecuted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93426	Replica response, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93427	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague correctly claimed that unfortunately those who committed crimes on Jazovka, Bleiburg and other strategic sites did not respond and that they were not prosecuted. I would mention another case from the end of 1944 from October when Croatian intellectuals, priests, were killed on Daxi, so those who did not truly harm anyone during World War II. Among them only for the public to mention was Pater Perica, the author of the two anthems I would say the Croatian church peoples. One of them is "Heaven's maiden, Queen of the Croats", and the other is "To heaven be plowed." So this person was killed criminally on Daxie without any court. But you said there was no evidence of a colleague named Djakic. There's evidence. There is an archive containing the letter by Marin Jurjevic Baja and Ante Jurjevic Baja, I apologize. Ante Jurovica Baja, in which he mentions all the names of the intellectuals and ends his letter, whether or not they must be killed. So it is quite clear which criminal ideology led the communists not anti-fascists at the time, but those were communists who committed a serious crime not only on... Not only in Jazovka, not in Bleiburg, but also unfortunately in many other sites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Dubrovnik-Neretva County, just to mention Orsoul, to mention Korčula. So these were all places where criminals, communists committed crimes for which there was evidence in the archives. There are their documents they signed, and they really need to be cleared up once with that part of history, because crimes of that kind never go out of date. And please direct your efforts in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-06-0.u93428	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the State's attorneys in 2006. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Offices in 2006 is hereby accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes unanimously accepted report.
