ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91115	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here I am pleased to present and submit business reports on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. As you know by law, the Management Board of the Fund is obliged to submit to you every year a report on what we have done in the past year, and since I am headed by law, since every Croatian defence minister is at the head of the Management Board of the Funds which act as you know the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, is a representative of the Croatian Parliament. Then, of course, the representative of the Croatian Defence Ministry and the representatives of the defenders, four of them, or four of them, so that, in any case, Croatian defenders in the board of directors of the Fund have the majority and all the decisions they have made, were made exclusively by their will. But I am pleased to say that we have made the decisions on the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund unanimously. I think I can say on behalf of the Trust Management Board that we've worked a lot over the last year. I think this report will also show that we have done well and that we have well managed the assets of Croatian defenders. I'll just maybe remind you very briefly of some facts. In fact, last year, as you know, we filed a report like this at this time or more precisely on July 11th, the assets of the fund amounted to two billion and fifty-eight million seventy-three thousand sixty-six kuna and ninety-eight limes. Today the assets of the fund are more than three billion and four hundred million kuna. I'm taking this information out because I think he's talking about how well we've managed the Board of Directors, but, of course, the Property Management Society. A society that, as you know, was chosen based on a contest. I would also like to remind you of some of the facts that are linked to the end of 2005, but that is to say some decisions. But by the end of 2005, these decisions had a significant impact on our decisions in 2006 as well. In December or more precisely 28 December 2005, the Management Board of the Fund decided on the distribution of one-third of the profits of the Croatian Defence Fund intended for development, social and humanitarian measures. I would like to remind you that according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, profits are divided in such a way that one third is divided into participants, one third is reinvested, and one third is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders. So we made a decision on that one-third. That one third means 42 million and a little bit more than 42 million kuna, so we distribute that one third in the next way. That part goes to the Croatian Defence and Child Scholarship Fund and one part to the Croatian Defence Foundation. And then the board of directors decided that 40% of these 42 million kunas, so one third goes to the Croatian Defence and Child Scholarship Fund and 60% goes to the Croatian Defence Fund. To implement this decision, we already in January 2006 encouraged the adoption of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children and the Law on the Croatian Defence Foundation. As you know, these laws were discussed in the Croatian Parliament, which was made half a year ago in the Croatian Parliament, so that, on the basis of the decision to distribute one third of the profits already before the end of last year, we could make important decisions primarily related to the scholarship fund where I repeat 40% of the one-third of the profits. That's a little over 16 million kuna. We could make decisions on the first scholarships from that fund. A total of 2872 scholarships and that is 1916 scholarships for high school, 930 scholarships for colleges and 26 participations in part of the expenses for post-graduate studies. I point out this because these decisions are of course related to decisions of the Management Board of the Fund, this I call it a large fund which through this is kind of a parent and a scholarship fund and a Croatian Defence Foundation in which there are just over 25 million kunas. The trust was working the same way. It took a little bit more time. However, she has also made decisions to support Croatian defenders especially those who are in a particularly difficult material situation in the families of Croatian defenders where there are diseases. And I must say that the Ministry of Croatian Defence also signed with the foundation one agreement that all those cases should be called so where Croatian defenders come to us with a request for support where the law cannot, where the law is limited, where the law allows for the granting of one-time financial assistance or material assistance. But beyond that, it can't be done anymore because very often it's also about demands of up to 100,000 kunas, for example for heavy operations abroad. Then, under this agreement, without any special administration, we send red tape to the Foundation to consider the Foundation according to very strict criteria and possibly grant assistance. Here's some ladies and gentlemen representing the Fund's portfolio. The total assets of the Fund on 31.12.2006, as this is the report, last year's Business Report amounted to 2 billion 987 million 888 thousand kuna, the largest share of which means 95.39% of the shares of INA and HT transferred to the account of the Fund in 2005. Here I want once again to point out the fact that 7% of HT shares were required to be transferred within a certain time limit. But for 7% of INA shares under the Privatisation Act, there was no deadline under the INA Privatisation Act. But as you know, the government transferred those 7% shares in 2005. I think that this is how the Government has shown that, in relation to the existence of the Fund, the functioning of the Fund, the main task of the Fund was very sincere and did what it could, I say, regardless of the deadline, because it could of course be manipulated, politicized, and possibly transferred in the election year, which I certainly believe that all of you would agree would not be well. So that's 95.39% of the Fund's assets. A 4.43% of the Fund’s portfolio accounts for most of the state, and for a small part of the corporate bond purchased by the management company on the account of the Fund by investing free liquid assets obtained by the payment of the HT dividend. 0,18% of portfolios account for the Fund's transaction account at the Depositary Bank and business interest claims on these assets and interest on bonds. The total net assets, meaning the Fund's net assets minus the Fund's liabilities on 31.12.2006, amounted to 2 billion 945 million 131 thousand kuna. The commitments mentioned above relate naturally to the management fee of the management company, i.e. 593 thousand kuna and the obligation to pay dividends to the members of the Fund for 2005, 42 million 164 thousand kuna, which is visible from the balance sheet situation that you can also see. So what I think is important here to underline, the Fund's net assets relative to the end of 2005, so in 31.12.2005 it increased by almost 40%, or exactly 39.59%. And I think it's the same if good data. Of course, it was largely sampled by the fact that the INA shares after the listing on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange increased and that increase was 866 million kuna. I think it is also necessary to highlight something that gives a special mark of the seriousness of the work we are dealing with, which is that the supervision of the operations of the Fund, so the Management Board and the management company were also carried out by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, so HANFA during 2006 and that in the monitoring report all the members of the Management Board are pointed out, I will quote: "HANFA has no objections to the current work of the management company and that everything is in line with the legal and constitutional provisions of international accounting standards and good market practice."which I think is equally important. The total profit of the 2006 Fund is 919 million kuna 627 thousand. Of this, 56 million 920 thousand relate to the 2006 HT dividend paid to the Fund on 24 January 2006. 8 million 153 thousand kuna refers to interest on the fund's transaction account and bonds in the Fund's portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the decision of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2006 has decided to pay the amount of 59 million 767 thousand 600 kuna and 41 June, which is the realised profit of the Croatian Defence Fund in 2006. Unrealised profit of 859 million, 859 thousand 658 kuna and 71 lip obtained primarily through an increase in INA stock prices will not be paid to protect the value of the participation of the Croatian Defence Fund. Namely, the disbursement of unrealised profits for 2006 would require the sale of part of the Fund's assets, meaning shares of INA and HT which, in the opinion of all the members of the Fund's Management Board and the Fund's management company, is currently not in the interest of the owner of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund. And another information related to the Management Board of the Fund, i.e. work. During April 2006, information on the ownership of the Fund was sent to most of the Fund's members, or about 486 thousand, meaning 96% of the Fund's members. Since a number of objections to the notifications submitted in June were received, a proposal for the extension of the deadlines for the submission of the complaint was adopted. I have to say because this is one job that relies on the functioning of the Fund, or the Management Board of the Fund. That there are still some difficulties related to the register, since some of the data that we were about to receive from the Ministry of Defence, or internal affairs, did not arrive because of their difficulties. Here I would like to announce that today we have a session of the Management Board of the Fund, which we invited the Minister of Defence and Home Affairs to resolve all the remaining issues because it is a large system and I hope that this job will be completed, and as you know in the following year, that is, in April of next year, it will not be available until April of next year, that is to say, Croatian defenders cannot have their own interests, but from that time on, they will be able to hold their stakes as they wish and know it. And here for the end, I would like to repeat something that I think is important, and which we have discussed on the board of directors and what has been issued and some statements, that all those who are trying in any way at this time to mix the interests of Croatian defenders in the Croatian Defence Fund are doing one job that will not have absolutely any legal effect. Absolutely no legal effect, we have done this to protect Croatian defenders from bagging, from bags and from all the negative consequences, or the negativeities we have witnessed in the past years. This is the money that belongs to them. The property of the Croatian Defence Fund will increase, because as you know under the Privatisation Act after privatisation, further privatisation of large companies, i.e. large enterprises, one part of these assets will belong to Croatian defenders and members of their families, i.e. to the property of the Croatian Defence Fund, as was the case with 7% of HT shares and 7% of Ina shares. Thank you very much for your attention, and I suggest that ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs accept this business report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91116	Thank you. The Committee on War Veterans, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91117	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 28th session held on 20 June 2007 discussed the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and by members of their families an act of 11 May 2007. The Committee was attended by representatives of the association of defenders and victims of the Homeland War. In its opening statement, the rapporteur pointed out that during 2006, notifications were made to the members of the Fund on ownership and the number of shares of the Fund, which was subject to a number of objections and extended time limits for answers. They also passed the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Law on the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Both the Fund and the Fund are financed from one-third of the profits of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in relation to 60:40 in favour of the Foundation. The total assets of the Fund at the end of the reporting period were 2 billion and 988 million kuna. Part of the 2005 Fund is intended to pay shareholders about 42 million kuna, and for 2006 around 20 million kuna will be paid off, representing one third of the Fund's realisation profits for 2006. The unrealised profit of the Fund around 860 million kuna resulting from the increase in the price of Ina shares will not be paid to protect the value of the participation of the Croatian Defence Fund, which is currently not in the interest of the owner of the share. Members of the Fund. The payment of part of the dividend to the members of the Fund will follow when the register is final, which is not the case now for the changes being made and when the value of individual shares can be calculated. In the discussion of the representatives of the associations and board members, there were no objections to the report which they consider to have been made professionally and correctly. It has been pointed out that the value of the Fund's assets will grow in order to privatise state-owned companies with special laws and the Fund's members should not sell their shares after the moratorium has passed, i.e. After 12 April 2008. The biggest objection is to the lack of information on the affirmative and positive measures and results of competent institutions to address the problem of Croatian defenders by press and electronic media representatives, and the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is one of the examples of successful resolution and implementation of the prescribed legal rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91118	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91119	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the report on the Croatian Defence Fund. I must say immediately that we can be satisfied about the security of the money in this Fund that says... I hope you gentlemen have a good night's sleep. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Which says that we were right when in 2003 the Fund law, when we formed it, when we set up a control system that would prevent certain irregularities that happened with similar funds, to defense funds in the '90s. It won't be a case anymore today. And so that's more than commendable. What remains controversial, what the SDP has indicated all these years and what we do not intend to give up on, although we accept that we can be in the minority, is our finding that the rest of THT dividends worth about 400, 500 million kuna, and even more when we see how the value of these shares is growing, but we stayed together with some other clubs here in the Croatian Assembly in the minority. And I think it's past time to accept this report now, but I'm not saying that just so someone doesn't remember next year that there's a certain debt that should be paid back. That's why I'm saying it one more time. We also talked about three years ago that because of the pace of privatisation itself, that the privatisations of other state-owned companies whose shares should be merged into the Croatian Defence Fund are missing, so that the only thing left for the division will remain the shares of THT and Ina. So the privatisation of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian electricity, Croat insurance and other companies will not be. As for some privatisations of some companies and here in the Parliament, we agreed regardless of the political background that it is better not to privatise them, it is the privatisation of those companies that are our most valuable natural wealth. But that's it. So these 3.7 billion, or if that's still going to grow by 4 months next year, is what will be made available to Croatian defenders through the stakes. There is also an open question of the register. We pointed to that number of 489 thousand Croatian defenders as too high, as unrealistic. We can accept that it's a list of the M.O.P. and the M.O.R.H. databases. There is this justification, however, our view is that the higher the number of Croatian defenders to thus fall, the pure mathematics, the fall and the value of the share where each defender will get it. Here we have also seen from the report that the register is not completely completed, it needs to be verified, these are the very people of the Croatian defenders to be informed of the stakes. Now at the end of the 6th, 6th month of 2007, deadlines slowly leak and should indeed be rushed to do so. I don't know how many ministers and defences and home affairs themselves can help if their services have not already done what they should have done, even though I accept that there can always be more objective obstacles. What the SDP also sees as controversial and has created a lot of dissatisfaction with Croatian defenders, but it is good that I don't speak of them, then just to mention the discussions that have been held between the individual presidents of the associations that the members of the Management Board of the Fund have led through the public, which are, that is, the problem of the criteria for the stakes. We see that, at least according to the story, according to their own statements, they were unjust, or unfair, especially towards Croatian defenders who directly participated in the defense of the homeland where they preferred those who were not on the battlefields. Even by the government, it was said that a special working body would be formed to consider all these remarks. It seems to me that it was formed, but the criteria remained more or less unchanged, and hence the causes of dissatisfaction that were present in the defence population. What's not written in the report, which I can accept, but there's no reason why it shouldn't be said here publicly by a government official. It is that it may have matured the time to publicly state how much the share in the fund itself, regardless of not being official data, but with 99 percent accuracy it can be said that there are so many shares, we know what the total value of the fund is right now, and then the value of each individual share can be assessed on that basis, because Croatian defenders are primarily interested in how much their shares will be worth when they get them next year. It means whether the total number of shares could be heard at board meetings and what could be read in the media, whether it's 5 and a half million shares or 10 million shares. Thus, the value of that share changes from 300 to 400 kuna to 700. So that's what the government's representatives here could say, of course, off the record of how much it is, especially since it's announced and split the dividends, it seems to me the value of 60 million kuna, which is also directly related to that assessment. Whether the dividend value will be 6 kuna per share or not, I don't know 10, 11 kuna per share, because if promised to Croatian defenders that it will be divided this year it would be good again so that no subsequent dissatisfaction would be created by the amount of money that comes, that it would be said that the value of what they get for the maximum number of shares would be 400, 500 or 600 kuna. Also my well-intentioned suggestion for these holidays that I was in Vukovar, and Vukovar is particularly interesting for all that will happen around the fund and around the foundation and around the scholarship fund, which is the work of the foundation, i.e. the announcement of the division of certain assistance for Croatian defenders. I think it's created an atmosphere that anyone who picks up, and it seems to me they can be wrong that the border, that limit for applications, is raised quite high so that a relatively large number of people will come forward, and according to radio station reports in Vukovar, 200 Croatian defenders reported daily, and we know that we have 25 million kuna at our disposal, we know that payment will be worth a one-time aid of 5.6,000 kuna. This means that there will be a relatively small number of people, i.e. they will receive that payment. If we see how many Croatian defenders appear, then it will create one dissatisfaction later when they are informed that their demands will be rejected. Of course, there's still time to explain it. So clean information rights for Croatian defenders, which I can expect... the fund, what the value of the share will be, what the value of the shares, or dividends to be paid this year, can be expected, and then additional information and around the grant fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's absolutely no reason to politicise on these issues. These are the life problems of the defenders themselves that need to be addressed, through direct assistance through the state or through trusts and funds. And I don't think there's gonna be any big problems and dissatisfaction. So to conclude. The financial side of this report and the work of the Croatian Defence Fund are fully accepted, and we leave those open remarks that we have been making all these years regarding both the register and the distribution of the criteria for shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91120	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91121	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! I will correct one of the mass of incorrect allegations spoken by Mr. Pancic. It refers to the 2003 Fund Act, which he is, it tells him that he has secured the security of money in the fund and that it would not happen with the money as it did in previous funds. Namely, your 2003 law has seen significant and almost total changes because it was not absolutely enforceable or could be used with it by any establishment of the fund and the Management Board of the Fund. He did not speak of important matters, the Statute and any other acts that should be passed and I therefore believe that the 2003 law was a purely political, pre-election set.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91122	HDZ representative club respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91123	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts and welcomes the 2006 Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. And as is evident from the report, the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families unanimously accepted a business report on the work of the same fund. It is also evident that during 2006, 13 meetings of the Management Board of the Fund were held and decisions and consent were made important for the functioning of the Croatian Defence Fund and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as well as the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families. And the interim director of the Scholarship Fund was appointed as well as the interim manager of the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War. On 6.3.2006, it was unanimously decided that the asset management company should proceed with the delivery of the information to the owners i.e. members of the fund's stake. And so about 486 thousand or 96% of the notice is addressed to home addresses. But given the complaints about incomplete data, the deadline for objections was extended to bring all the flows in the Homeland War in line, and to fill out all the missing information in the deliveries or in the ministries that Croatian defenders had in their records. In view of changes in home addresses, incomplete unique birth numbers and all other shortcomings in the time spent that were not recorded and the Croatian defenders themselves did not control in the previous time that was being conducted in the Offices and Defence Administrations as well as in the units, it was necessary to extend this time limit for objections in order to remove these shortcomings. In accordance with the legal provisions, the Erste Invest Fund Management Society published an informative prospectus of the Croatian Defence Fund for 2006 in the "National Journal" No. 33/07 since 28.3.2007, and in daily newspapers, in "The Morning List" and "The Evening List" since 31.3.2007. This only speaks about the transparency of the display, profit, loss and business of the fund through this time and seriousness of the trust management board itself and the fund management society. Financial reports of the fund and management company and other relevant information related to the operation of the fund and "Erste Investa" have been published in the information prospectus. The total assets of the Croatian Defence Fund at 31.12.2006 amounted to 2 billion 987 million 888 thousand kuna, the largest share of which account for 95.39% of the shares of INA and HT, which were transferred to the account of the fund during 2005, i.e. 7% of HT shares, and... INA stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 4.43% of the fund's portfolio consists of most, most of the state and in the smaller part of the Raiffaisen bank's corporate bond, which the management company bought for the fund's account by investing free liquid assets obtained by paying off HT dividends. 0,18% of portfolios account assets at the depositary bank and interest-based claims on those assets and interest on bonds. Total net assets i.e. The assets reduced to the fund's liabilities to 31.12.2006 amounted to 2 billion 945 million 131 thousand kuna. The commitments relate to the management fee of the management company i.e. The management fee is 593 thousand kuna and the obligation to pay dividends to fund members for 2005 42 million 164 thousand kuna, visible from the balance sheet on 31.12.2007 on page 8 of the information prospectus. The net assets of the fund rose by 39.59% compared to 31.12.2005, which was mostly caused by the increase in the price of the shares of INA after the listing on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange. The INA stock growth was 866 million 712 thousand kuna. It should also be noted that the net assets of the fund during 2006 were reduced by 84 million 328 thousand kuna by a total of 42 million 164 thousand kuna to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and Croatian Defence Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families in proportion to 40:60. So 40% of these funds go to the scholarship fund and 60 goes to the Croatian Defence Foundation. And obliging the same amount to pay dividends to all members of the Croatian Defence Fund. The total profit of the 2006 Fund is 919 million and 627 thousand kuna. Of these, 56 million 920 thousand kunas relate to the 2006 HT dividends paid to the Fund in 24.1.2006. 8 million and 153,000 kuna refer to interest on the fund's transaction account and bonds in the Fund's portfolio. Most of the get comes from the so-called. unrealised profits reflecting the INA stock price hike after the December 2006 stock exchange. Before listing on the stock exchange, the Management Company is a conservative method of assessing the value of one share of INA per thousand and 58 kuna. After the initial public offer, 17% of INA shares of 1690 kuna by the end of the year increased to 2 thousand 296 kuna and 16 limes. In accordance with the legal provisions and the decision of the Management Board of the Fund and of the HANFA, the realized profit of the Fund for 2006 amounts to HRK 59 million, 767 thousand, will be paid as follows: one third of the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and Croatian Defence Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families amounting to $42 million. One third of the fund members in the form of dividends and 59 million and 767 thousand, 59 million 767 thousand and 600 will be in the form of dividends. One third will be... to the Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also 42 million and 164 thousand i.e. one third of the profits for 2005 are committed to paying dividends to the members of the Fund. As the register continues to be completed and completed soon, it will be possible to pay off the dividend prepared for Croatian defenders, and we hope that through today's meeting with ministers will eventually be recorded and all addresses and all unique birth numbers and all flows that have been incomplete and that the dividend will start with payment. Unrealised profit of 859 million and 860 thousand kuna won primarily through an increase in the price of shares of INA will not be paid to protect the value of the participation of the Croatian Defence Fund. The disbursement of unrealised profits would require the sale of shares of the Fund i.e. the shares of the INA or HT which, in the opinion of the Management Board of the Fund and the Management Society is currently not in the interest of the owner of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund. On 2.3.2007, new certificates were also sent to the Fund members where changes were relevant for the calculation of the number of shares. And based on the updated defence register provided by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Erste Investa 29.1.2007. The certificates were sent to the circus of 84 thousand members of the Fund. It is also important to point out and not to mention in the information prospectus that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is. HANFA conducted regular supervision of the operations of the Croatian Defence and Management Fund during December 2006. In the monitoring report to all the members of the Fund's Management Board, it is noted that the HANFA has no objections to Ersta's work so far and that everything is in line with legal and social provisions, international accounting standards and good market practice. We are pleased to point out that the Fund's net assets increased in 2007 and now stands at 3 billion and 444, 404 million kuna, which means that further entry of 7% and further privatisation of the Fund will grow significantly and what the War Veterans Committee has pointed out as well as the recommendation that the shares should be preserved as long as possible in its ownership. Members of the Croatian Defence Fund so as not to waste or sell into worthlessness and the dividend will continue to be paid all the time until all those who came out of the Fund and sold their shares would no longer be members of the Fund and would not exercise the right to new shares. So here is another time in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club we welcome this correct, quality report that is in favour of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91124	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91125	I'm not talking about the 2003 law because it doesn't make sense, but I'm correcting the wrong allegation: "By further privatization, the Fund will grow further." So let's not sell fog. Next year's stakes will be divided, and the privatisation of other businesses will not be until next year. The only thing that can be preserved is the Fund and then wait for the next three, four, five years of next privatisation. But there's no privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91126	Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91127	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Vice President with an associate, colleague and colleague. Like every time we have a report in front of us, then it can be realized that that genre worked, right? That it actually fits what the report should be, right? And on the other hand, it is shown that quality, quality reports are coming into this House that correspond to these genres. But what, which, in itself, is the form should be asked what is with the content and we will start with this famous introduction in the club HSLS where it says that during April 2006, notices on the ownership of shares in the Fund were sent to most members of the Fund. About 486 thousand... I'm a member. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since a number of objections to the notifications submitted in June were received, a proposal was adopted to extend the deadlines for the submission of the complaint and extended deadlines for written replies to the objections. And this one, I think, is one key, one key, two key sentences in this entire report. Obviously some things don't, actually get questionable and if you say it like that carefully, you'd be so philosophically reading it, then actually... The finding that somewhere, that Croatia has about half a million defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What fellow Letica threw out of the bench like this I am not a defender and if I say it would be very interesting to see the criteria of how it becomes a defender, how is it that the mayor of the largest war city that's been exposed to war activities hasn't been given that status for almost a year and a half, and somewhere else, it's been gained. And to be clear, I'm not asking because time has chosen me, not me time. If it could be chosen, it would simply not be chosen and ultimately something called a commitment to the homeland. To defend our country in every way possible to defend it. But if we have half a million defenders, it really has to be questionable. How easily that actually became a defense attorney. It's enough to be somewhere, be anywhere to cook coffee or be in some state body and then be overnight, I say it becomes a defender and then it's actually this whole noble idea of how to, how to solve that population we're actually multiplying and that it's increasing and that actually this substance that exists is how much x money that is actually going to end up becoming, in itself, less valuable. On the other hand, what we must question in the club is this quantitative approach to other words egolitarian. Which means now, the question of criteria is being raised. You see, those 90 days that saved Croatia, which bonded with the werewolves actually now that man of 90 days was, in relation to the one I don't know was just doing some function there for four, five years actually in an unfavourable position, and he didn't know in those 10 days what he destroyed – 10, 20, 30, 50 tanks then you, then actually that fact is somewhat underrated by a simple, administrative, bureaucratic job that also had to be done. But certainly he had no such weight as some fact that some 90 days they there July, August, September, October, November actually did what they did. And these are really questions that we always avoid giving an answer because every time someone's always pre-election time so we always flirt with someone, so this crazy expansion of rights actually shows how then exactly what they want to get comes back as a boomerang and it doesn't answer in any way. And that's why we've talked about these exactly the famous register several times already. That register has to be public by no means some secret book. Must, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know who these fifty, or half a million who, who have the status of defenders, are. I'd really like to see who from that in my Osijek who's all gained the status of defender. Because I know very well how many people were in Osijek on November 18, 1991, after the fall of Vukovar. And now I'd like to see if some of my fellow citizens like this overnight just because of certain system imperfections and everything that goes along with system imperfections have been given the status of defenders. That's why it's important, and that's why we at the HSLS Club insist on updating that famous register. He must have really been the most public book. We always had someone whenever something tried to make it public then they always had an action against it. Obviously there's this let's not say I'm not going to say guilty conscience, but there's just a fear that something that you've gotten in the wrong way and you know well that your neighbor and this is still better off not knowing, and when with the fact of the disclosure, then it would actually prove exactly that not only these correct things were happening. And precisely because of these, such as to say speculative then actually this whole substance becomes ultimately worthless and that's what we think should change urgently and just throw out this egolite criterion, this quantitative approach, and this particular problem of the criteria is something that's exactly, in fact, the most painful point, the detail in this whole story, that in some way we're really mixing pears and apples. As soon as you mix it up, then you actually have this thing that something that was said well imagined, that in some way, that through one investment fund is actually helping these people, that population is helping. And I'm saying from the trust and from the scholarship, it's all really good. It shows this very high degree of solidarity and the concerns of this society that some things change, and then I say to this one by myself yet, at least now it's unclear, someone would say an untransparent way so that it all falls into the water. And secondly, I have an obligation to some, the defenders have asked me. I think that we can get an answer to what with, exactly, the one from THT from those times when it was transferred to the budget, and it wasn't going towards this fund and whether what can be changed, whether the chairman of the board of directors with his six co-workers can make that decision that what we think shouldn't have gone through or had to go all the way through the budget and really come back and that you have some, unclear whether it's 150 or 200 million. But obviously some value is to divide the users of that fund. Here are all of these words of ours: the treasures seem to me more than benign questions, but the questions that kind of talk about the degree of consciousness of this society that we really don't let the noble things in some way turn into their cartoons and that I say with half a million defenders I think we could say that we could get to Vienna or Istanbul, depending on which side we would go. And I'm afraid that this number was much smaller and that in some situations it was easy to really give in. And once you know these acquired rights, then it's very difficult or almost impossible to give up and people simply experience it as something that belongs to them, and I think that the question of patriotism, patriotism which is really a question of all issues and which, in recent years, also become a couple of excellent patriotic, or philosophical issues that we have a little different approach to. I believe that we would then come to a smaller number, but also to where and where larger substances are and then those people who have truly earned would have the right to withdraw where and where larger funds are and indeed do not become social cases, but through these investment cycles, funds solve the problems of this vastly significant population in society that should certainly be taken into account and in no way should be marginalized. But I'm saying a big question, and that's what my colleague Cain told me if it was, is that the right way to solve that problem? I'm very close to his thinking that there could be some more acceptable models to solve this. But I'm saying, the report as a report... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91128	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91129	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct only one incorrect assumption that such a number of soldiers could reach Vienna or Pest. In fact, Mr. Kramarić doesn't really know the opportunities that were in '91. the years, as the troops formed, how they demobilized themselves, how new people mobilized, during which period and how many soldiers there were. And these data strictly show that at certain times a certain number of people were mobilized or demobilized, whether they were coming or not. This doesn't even stand to get to Vienna or Pest. Because if he'd been in combat troops then he'd surely know what the circumstances were, what a long front, how much to cover with, how many people that terminology doesn't know. And what I'm trying to say is that the personal matter of every defender is to decide whether his name and course will be released in the Homeland War publicly or not. So that there would be no abuse of his name as it has been recently happening to me that from a book that's been thrown out like a shovel, written by a Bjelovarcan, the city's administration has also funded him, writing an indictment against me and my friend, and neither was I onion eating or onion smelling. In order not to use the names of Croatian defenders, I personally think they should not be published. Only those who allow it to be published in person.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91130	HSP club, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91131	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll only say two, three words about the Register, because there's been a lot of talk about it, so let me say one comment as a representative. During the Homeland War, generations and generations of hand soldiers were mobilized by Croatian regulations and participated in the Homeland War. We've got a 70, 80,000 handbook. To speak of the Register in a way that he is one lie of deception is not fair to Croatian defenders. And let's not do that here in the Croatian Parliament. In this country, you know who determines the status. There are laws and there are regulations, it's the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior. According to the law, they gave a list of defense attorneys. Someone was three months, someone was five years old. Perhaps it would be good for the secretary of state to say, he probably knows how many Croatian defenders there were all five years of the Homeland War. Well, when he says that number, then it'll probably make it more clear to everyone what it's all about. And to talk about the publication of the Croatian Defence Register is a topic that would be very much discussed. And in any case, he would not agree to getoise Croatian defenders, to be created in one category special with a public census so that everyone can manipulate their data one way or another. In addition, our Croatian regulations, which are fundamental in some other countries, do not allow. But let us, as we have heard from the predecessors and on the Committee on Veterans Report, it is in itself welcome, correct and acceptable. We can say that we are satisfied with the state of the Croatian Defence Fund. Finally things took place and this Fund was fully operational. And just what we can say in the future, we want this Fund to be the richer and the better it does. In this context, we can certainly support and support the report. What is, perhaps, not mentioned in the report on this I would like to say a few words. This was about dividends. And my colleague Pancic said that the story, the dividends and the long HT dividend if this report is accepted, is complete. My colleague Pancic is not finished because, as is known, and I will repeat, that story is in the Constitutional Court. Let us hope, let us believe that the Constitutional Court will one day tell its people whether the government had to pay HT dividends in full or could do what it did, means interpreting the part of the dividend that, by the time the shares were transferred, has paid that part of the dividend into the state budget. It's 150, 200 million kuna. It's a significant asset. It should be said that although the Minister said that the government was sincere in the transfer, it is likely in its desire and intention to realize what the law predicted. However, I have already said this from this pay phone and I repeat that the government wanted to transfer these dividends without any legal consequences, and dividends to the Croatian Defence Fund, so today we would talk about much more significant resources. Speaking of dividends, I think that paying the dividends provided for by this Fund Act and talking about the amount of 60 million kuna may not be the right time to pay dividends, because it will be worth taking into account the number of defenders and the number of funds into account and may be detimulative for defenders, especially at a time when this three-year moratorium stands out and when there is an opportunity for Croatian defenders to begin to dispose of their interests. I wasn't very happy when I heard the minister who actually said what the law predicted, that the Croatian defender would have the stocks as they could and wanted next year. I expected and expect the Fund's Management Board to act on those who have an optimistic share, which means that it creates trust in the Fund, because only this trust can prevent the sale of the Fund. As we know, the Fund is closed and his future is questionable after the following year. There are scenarios even so that the Fund could be shut down if more than 50% of defenders sell their shares. I was here in the Croatian Parliament not once, several times witnessed the debate on our committees, specifically on the Board of Appeals and Appeals which I was a member of, when the debates of the people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, asked the Parliament to fulfill their injustices. And the injustice was that they sold shares from previous privatisations, and those shares were worth ten times and hundreds more. And then there's of course the citizens have the right to do it, they said we were cheated. But unfortunately, the market economy is like that. What the defenders expect, which is our duty to speak to them by our representatives, including the Board of Directors of the Fund, is, of course, advice, message. Our message must be to Croatian defenders, do not sell shares in the Defence Fund. Don't sell the stakes, don't let what happened to some other funds happen with the Fund, not because of someone's manipulation, but because of the fact that whoever held the shares misjudged and sold the shares into incriminating some kind of bags and those who crisscrossed the wealth on those shares at the expense of those who in their ignorance did a bad act by themselves. Do not sell shares of the Croatian Defence Fund, because when you sell shares, shares in the Fund, you will lose your right, and let's hope that in further privatisations, the Fund will certainly be a significant Fund. Of course 7% of Ina and HT are not, are great values, but compared to the total and total privatisation in Croatia where hundreds of millions of kunas are concerned these are still crumbs, but if the crumbs are worth something. Whether privatisation will be this year, next or in three years, we can say and assume that it will have to go because it is such a process, we are in a market economy and will definitely come the day when and in the next privatisations one who is the authority will have to give part of the Croatian Defence Fund and will thus significantly increase its value. After all, the Fund's idea was to create a permanent source of funding for defenders, not to allow for sale for three years and for very small money, defenders to lose their values. What I would still like to hear as a message is information that the government, in this case, the Croatian Defence Ministry, will do everything they can to make the missing ads in the newspaper where we heard, illegally buying or selling, offering to buy or sell shares in the Fund. The message must be from today's debate, any transactions with shares in the Croatian Defence Fund are illegal at this point, and that's what the minister said, and I'd like to repeat now that we have, we probably have a transfer. What was the biggest remark and which stands from the Croatian party club is the right to information. As an example, we can say that after it was found out that family scholarships were awarded, the children of Croatian defenders were then little or no one to meet who said I didn't know. Regardless of some efforts, there are also efforts on TV shows and press conferences. There are, of course, those who regularly follow the political scene, there are certain information systems, but it is not enough. Unfortunately, most of them were not informed, and many did not know that scholarships were being shared and that the scholarship fund had been operational. There, of course, I don't call the government or the ministry, but we could still make an appeal to the media to pay a little more attention that when they talk about these topics, most Croatian defenders might have information, and of course using such information or not using their right. Here I can say that there is also a certain problem in the functioning of Croatian Defence Associations, as we know when we talk about the budget then we know that millions of kunas are assigned to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, and they are intended for the functioning of the work of associations and of course to submit annual reports, extensive reports of what they spend this money on. It would be good for them to be conditioned next year that some of these funds they receive from the state budget must be spent on information both to the public and to their members on these issues. This can be without major problems, of course taking care that, as we know, we also have a government coordination association, we have some other coordination, this division among associations is not good and it would not be good, and it seems, however, that because of this division, there has been a delay in informing members of certain associations on these very important issues, and I mean the foundation of Croatian defenders and the scholarship fund. What is still an interesting question, and it is not mentioned at all in the report, as we know it has been as information for years, there are representatives of the defenders in Ina and HT, these are General Boy and Mr Mercep. There were a lot of stories about it in the media, even if the government hadn't withdrawn its member of the Supervisory Board. So the real question arises is whether they participated, whether they participate in their positions in Ina and HT, whether they report to the Board of Directors of the Defence and Defence Fund which they represent, at all, what their role is in, because of course they receive a fee and are sent there to represent defenders and represent the interests of defenders in Ina and HT. It would be good, and I think it's necessary for it to be in the Fund's Business Report, because they represent defenders there, and I should hope they represent the interests of the Fund in Ina and HT. That's what I'd like the minister to report to us parliamentary representatives, because it's not in the Fund's business report. And finally, I repeat, the message should and should be to the Croatian defenders. No matter what you get 55 or 100 kuna dividends this year or early next year, no matter what the Fund is no big value now, don't sell shares, share of the Croatian Defence Fund, very soon that Fund will have value and have its full... This is a message I would like to hear from the Management Board and the chairman of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91132	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91133	I must honestly admit that I don't understand my colleague Yukic, why the defense register should remain a secret book.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91134	It's a query, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. You're looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91135	No, I'm not. He claimed he had to stay, and in some ways he polymized with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91136	Well, you're not correcting the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91137	No, I'm correcting the quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91138	You're looking for an explanation and you're expressing one curiosity, one curiosity why it's such a thing. It's not a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91139	Let me correct it, so it doesn't remain a secret book.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91140	It's not a correction again. It's a negation claim. That's another no, so you know it very well. I won't give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91141	Be careful if someone uses public privileges,...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91142	This is another comment. Thank you very much. HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91143	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91144	Please, what's the matter? What? ... So where am I gonna hear what someone threw at you about it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91145	I apologize for having to react. First, you warned your colleague Kramaric that he had injured Rule 209 and eventually said that the defenders were a mass society. I mean, this is really embarrassing what's going on in this assembly. That's where we heard... No matter what you're lying about! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said mass society. I mean, this is really embarrassing behavior by colleagues Kramaric because he would make all the defenders and families of the dead, the disabled... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91146	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91147	You're lying. You're lying right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91148	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91149	Because this is a scandalous, scandalous... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91150	That's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91151	Peace. I can't comment, I can't comment on what if someone from the bench to someone of content... Order! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here's my colleague Kurtov. Order! Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91152	My colleagues and colleagues, you're gonna let me start and finish. This report is financially then for Croatian defenders, as far as the financial part is concerned, we really have no objections. We think that he was properly made and all the clubs I've heard so far have supported that part, but each of us wants to warn about some things that could potentially cause problems about this Fund. On 12 April 2008, the moratorium ends to share in the fund, and there will be chaos if the ministry does not have the exact number of points issued, the cards issued, because we now know that we have a situation for individual defenders under the old law, so orders and armed people's protection to have rights as defenders, and under the new law they don't have it and they get the cards, they get the shares, they come to the Defence Office, and they simply tell them they don't have the right to do it. What's the number of these people I'm asking the Ministry if there's that information? I don't think that's a small number of people because from some municipalities alone, I got 10, 15 people who got IDs, they got shares, and they don't have a right to them. The Ministry sends out the licenses from the register, and when it comes to verifying for the fund, then the register is not good. The Deputy Prime Minister said there will be defence ministers and the MUP today to try to solve the problem. However, if we know that the census of the population of China, Russia, Croatia lasts for a month, and we for 2 and a few years can't make a list of defenders I don't think it's right and that the level in the ministry in charge of that part of the job doesn't work. I assure you that it was given to defenders and commanders and defence offices that this would be resolved within a month with certificates from the public notebooks and as we have so far done confirmations regarding certificates for wartime military people and verification of the war route. Whether members of the Board of Directors are obliged to participate in a report on war veterans on the Committee on War Veterans and in the debate in the Assembly and to clarify some things. If we know that as far as the trust fund and the Trust Fund are concerned, there's no way to reach a defense attorney whose property it is and who have the right to do so and no one asks them anything at the end. We have a situation to endure people for one-time help, some hear, some don't hear, then there's a fama in the public that every defender will get out of the 6,000 kuna trust fund and get into the revolution, they're rejected, we've already got people who've been rejected without a legal remedy, no reason why it's done, which they have the right to complain about. I don't think that part of the legal regulation on this is yet resolved and that the ministry should have legal services that are in charge of taking into account the legal procedure and people when the right to help is refused to be given the legal remedy. ... The Ministry should give the rules then. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It does, it does. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Everything has to do with the Ministry. 3 billion and 400 million kunas are the current value of the fund, but we know it's not a figure that should be realistic. If we know that the Croatian Government should pass the Law on the privatisation of Croatian Post, Croatian Railways, Croatian Roads, Croatian Radio and Croatian Forests then the assets of the Fund would be completed and this would be far more money than the issue now. And that's why I'm worried about this 12th of April 2008 when defenders should be free to participate, i.e. We could also offer to sell the fund. However, the public has a new impression, these defenders think that all of a sudden they will be able to offer their shares and that they will deal with their immediate little problem for the money they are now interested in. But they don't know that they won't be able to do it and that the fund will buy as much as it can, and that other part simply isn't meant to buy out all of it, unless we're going to sell out the assets of the fund, then we didn't do anything, and we didn't do anything for those defenders any value we imagined. Now about one point is worth a circus 5, 6 kuna or a share let's say at best 600 kuna, which on average by defender is about 6 to 7 thousand kuna as much as there is an average defender in Croatia. That's about 12 shares or a thousand 200 points. I think that's what we should say so people don't think that there's some kind of base figure in there right now. It is large, 3 billion and 400 million kunas is a large figure, but when it is deployed to points and shares and to defenders it is not as big money as people possibly imagine or hope for. Keep going. How much do we have in the combat and non-combat sectors? There is no fighting and non-combating sector in the register. Why? Keep going. '90s, '91s. Year and '96. When the war wasn't even the most points in that part, at that time it was allocated and that's why this 600 kuna figure per share is so small. It could be twice as big to go for a fair redistribution of these goods. I therefore appeal to the Administrative Court because under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia the war lasted since '91. By '95, and you know very well that we are 15.3.91. years of sending Croatian boys to the Yugoslav People's Army. Therefore, I don't know who the Croats fought against in the '90s. and '91. Until 5th, 6th, 9th month, when, depending on which part of Croatia started fighting? I don't think this is a scam, and I'm not staying on it. So far I've warned multiple times, and now I'm going to sue the Administrative Court. From today, I've been waiting for this debate, I'm signing, I've got down at the club and I'm going to sue this part, because he unfairly, they've got more people for the '90s. and '91. And '96. A year than most of the warriors who spent from day one to day on the battlefield. I ask, why and who does it serve? Why and to whom? Someone from the government should tell me that. Still. The fund should be available to people in the 4th month of 2008. If this privatisation will not continue, then let the government tell us clearly, the policy of this government is such that we will not sell out our assets and there will be no new stakes, new ownership, new money, new values. Or if you're going to go for sale to say, it's going to be in a year, two, three, five, eight, ten. Because now that the 4th month of 2008, people need to dispose of the property, and that property is total, nor is it constant, nor is it permanent. We don't know if these stakes will be worth three times that in three or four or five years. So we're extending the time limit of our assets, and we know that some defenders now, even yesterday, need money, and that's why it comes to this again that various bags, criminals, thieves, I would call them bags and our own and the defenders of the poor who need tomorrow thousands of kuna to pay for the electricity, he's going to sign his shares and somehow rob him. And now with this, we don't know when it's going to go with the privatisation of these companies that I mentioned, we're going to extend the deadline maybe to ten years. Will the next government have the strength to implement this? We can see that there isn't. We don't even have an announcement when it might be. So let's say, a year we're going to make one company privatize it and that would be some reality. We understand that. But to know when it will be and what it will be, and that people, defenders are no longer subject to manipulation, but to know their first when they will acquire them and when they will be able to dispose of their property. You know that the HVIDR of the City of Zagreb has been sued, and for now why isn't it available with its stakes? Right now, no one has the right to take it away from them. However, we have done so in the protection of our defenders. We tried to protect them from themselves. But now by extending the deadlines, we will make chaos and I don't think anyone needs it and that's why I needed to warn these things, say some Ministry and Deputy Prime Minister try to find solutions to what I pointed out in front of the Croatian People's Party, in front of the club and on their own behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91153	Thank you. In 10 and 53, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91154	Well, here I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Kurts who said like those who fought in the '90s. And in '91, which they got most as well as who they fought against. Well, I'm surprised at my colleague Kurt, and if you've forgotten they're in '91. were actions in the village of Boro, where the directors of the Croatian Redarstna zavod, who had been forming signs since '91, died. In addition, where they were training, and let's remember the actions in Mirkovci where members of the regular forces who I was also a member of were also killed. And so now those who got some points from that period, what are they fake defenders or what, I guess there wasn't a war at that time? I didn't even understand what you meant by that?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91155	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91156	Injury of Rules of Procedure 209. My colleague Chuljak wasn't correcting me, but he's interpreting his opinion that's not true. '91. Year 15.3.91. In the years we sent our Croatian boys to the Yugoslav People's Army, and the actions began from 5 months to 9 months the war began. By this time of war, there was no war in Croatia and do not lie to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91157	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a correction of a claim that you made, which is disputed by MP Chuljak. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the management board of the Jadranka Kosor Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I called after Mr. Kurt's presentation because I think there's a few things I need to say, simply because of the further course of the debate, so there's no further confusion. I'm going to start with a few things he was talking about, so I'm going to refer to the other clubs for a very short time. Thus, Mr Kurtov, the representative in the Croatian Parliament, for example, says that Croatian defenders have received IDs without having the right to share and speak about dozens and dozens. Mr. Representative! You know I'm available to every MP, of course, because I'm also Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, and I report to every MP. If you'd told me and showed me that, you'd have delivered those addresses or the names of the people that they're referring to, I'd be reacting, and we'd know what this is about today. So if we really want to help solve the problem I personally doubt that it is, but if there's a problem please, give me that list now, tomorrow you'll know what it's about. Please, for the rest of the debate, give me a list of the defenders in question, who have problems. Secondly, you mentioned a scholarship fund and a trust fund. About not knowing enough, not knowing so much. I would like to inform you that, yes, the first scholarship fund, the Croatian Defence Fund, so the Foundation has nothing to do with the Croatian Defence Ministry. The Fund for Scholarship and the Fund are also representatives of associations, representatives of the competent ministries and they manage through their board of directors the tasks of the Scholarship and Foundations Fund. The Croatian Defence Ministry, therefore, has no influence at all. These are independent bodies and they work according to the law we passed in the Croatian Parliament according to sublaws. So none, I repeat no ties, nor can the Ministry in any way influence. We're just, I said here I signed an agreement with the foundation that all the problems that we find out about and can't be transferred under the law. It means we can't help you, but call the Foundation and let the man write again, rather than automatically forward it to the Foundation for Resolution. You said that people refuse there, I know because we participated through the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund in bringing in acts and adopting criteria for granting assistance through the foundation. The criteria are very clear, precise. That's what they have to be. Therefore, anyone who fails to meet the criteria cannot be supported. And that's what I think you'll support. Now you're saying, Mr. Kurt was talking about the Fund and that it's not a fabulous number. So three, three billion and here's the latest data, three billion and 474 seems to me millions today. Yes, Mr. Representative, I don't think I'm going to speak to you personally but to all of you. It's not a small amount of money, and I repeat, by the end of the term last government was gone. And that's a fact. And ever since then, he's been doing the whole law-altering job, establishing the law. The law adopted in 2003 according to instructions and warnings from all competent institutions since the then Securities Commission could not function further. And we had to change it here so we could start a fund. And we entered the property and it, as you can see, is growing. So today to discourage defenders from this pay phone in that it is not God knows what money is not good because it is some kind of money. He's growing as you can see. Last year, at this time, there were two billion and slightly less than 200 million kunas. Now it's 3 billion and 474. So it's not worth the money. The stakes, someone asked here, they staked about 650 kuna. Therefore, anyone can calculate how much it is on average. Oh, property changes, of course. We believe it will grow since more assets will come into the Fund. And what I want to point out. There were a lot of words in the debate about Croatian defenders being able to dispose of the next year since April, and even now some, some of the jobs that should move this property into someone else's hands. Of course that's what we've been warning you about. If we had also issued an ad that we had very clearly warned about, and here I said that all the contracts, all the meddlings that possibly happen now, have no legal effect whatsoever. That it's a waste of business. It's a felony, though. And that's what we warned here by publishing in all the papers a while ago. There was a lot of talk through the Croatian defenders' associations. There is information about this on our website. There is information about this in our PSP centre, with our PSP centers in all the districts and in the city of Zagreb. So more than that, we can't. Of course it would be good for the media to talk more about it sometimes, but it's not my job. You were talking about the register and whether it was 1991 or not, so I think it's a notorious fact everyone knows. I'll just tell you the data, the records. By the end of 1991, by the end of 1991, these are data from the Croatian defenders' register. For the first time, 182,000 238 Croatian defenders entered the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Interior. So these are the people who got the status. By January 15, 1992, a total of 272 thousand 782 Croatian defenders meant the first time they joined the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Interior. And then in a row of years, so I can list you from the register of Croatian defenders. So we have years each month, each month as the first Croatian defenders entered and then the total collection for each year and until, and here is the data after 15 January 1992 to 6 months 1996. 216 thousand 625 Croatian defenders, these are the people who have won the status of Croatian defender. Mr. Kramaric spoke, I'm sorry he's not here right now to search and request that the register be published. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone, all the data we have on the Data Protection Act and other laws are saying that this register where the very sensitive data that we're talking about both war routes and so on is that it can't be published. However, I am that, in order to avoid any doubt, I would ask the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and an official memo that, given the information contained there, could such a register be officially published or not? But I repeat my personal opinion to both my colleagues and us in the government is that the data that is there is data that must be protected because they could be subject to great manipulations. And that certainly is absolutely not in anyone's interest. And I want to remind you that among other things there is a unique parent number. That's, that's the least I'd really like to discuss. But in the term of the last government, it is also marked as not to be published. Well, then, we're a little in conflict. So we could publish the register where there is a unique home number and all the information that speaks about the warpath of a single Croatian defender, so it is for publication, and the unique parent number is not. So I only remind you of that contradiction. And something else about the debate and Mr Kramaric and some others about the dividend. Well, of course the dividend can be transferred when the fund is founded and the property is transferred to it. However, of course, the question could then also be asked why, for example, this dividend was not reserved in years when the law was passed, i.e. amendments to the Privatisation Act, for example INA and HT, etc. etc. But I don't think that's good, so it would lead us back to politicization and since there were questions about the value of the stake, that he, the value of the stake I repeat is about 650 kuna, so everyone can clearly calculate the talk of Croatian defenders who refused to calculate the share on what the amount is on average, I repeat that this value is changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91159	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91160	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, under the old law civil protection... Civil protection had the right to be Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the new law, they don't have the right and we have a bunch of people who, under the old law, got that status. I'll get it for you. I promised you last time. I'll get those papers copied for you. I have a specific name and last name for people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91161	A colleague of Kurt's did it through discussion. Do not correct an incorrect quote. You're expressing one opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91162	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91163	Of course not!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91164	The Minister said it wasn't true. I said it was true and I have papers for it. That's one thing. Second. Ninety-first years of war started, so I've been a participant since the first day of the war. It didn't start in the first month, not the fifth month, not the fourth month, but the fifth month from the fifth month to the ninth month. He started his ninth, eight months in Zadar, and we all know, and we all know when the Homeland War started. But in the end, you are always pretending to be “tosha” and do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it clearly states that in 1991, 1995, it is the duration of the Homeland War. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91165	It's about the Constitution. It says clearly. It's not a dispute, and no one's arguing about it. ... No one's arguing. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Dear Representative Damir Cain, IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91166	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Jukic, speaking in front of the HSP Club, said at one point that the defenders are given crumbs. It's not like that, it wasn't like that in 2000 or before 2000, it wasn't like that in 2003, it wasn't like that in the fourth, it wasn't like that in the fifth, and it wasn't like God to me in 2007. Under the Law on Croatian Defence in 2006, 4 billion 789 million kuna were paid to the population. It's a 5% budget circus, and it's just not a little bit, gentlemen. It is one respectable amount for a country like the Republic of Croatia. In 2005, 4 billion 164 million kunas were paid, 2004. 3 billion 918 million kuna, 2003. 3 billion 491 million kuna. So, in three years since 2003, that amount has increased by 40% if in 2003 it's our base year or plus a billion 298 million kuna. And I don't think that's clear for underestimating, as the former government paid according to its own budget options to the Croatian population. It is not for underestimating this defence pension of 45% of the average salary. If the average salary is 4780 kuna 45%, it's about 2150 kuna. And at times when the pension of new pensioners is 1562 kuna and 65 limes. 531 kuna less than the old pensioners. So it's not for underestimating. The second thing is that with that 2150 kuna when we divide it by day, such a single defender has only 70 kuna at his disposal. But with new pensioners, that's only 52 kunas, and that's why it needs to be coordinated as quickly as possible for these old and new ones. To get back to this fund. As far as this fund is concerned, I'm sorry it's not here now, Kramaric. Indeed, how is it that Mr. Kramaric, the war mayor of Osijek, who did not escape from the city in those days, for example, is not recorded in the fund and does not make a single point. It simply offends, as it also offends the fact that someone who did not know in Vukovar has perhaps less points than some secretary or secretary who worked in some defence office in Buzet, Pazin, what I know, Zagreb or below Split. As far as this fund is concerned, the assets of the fund have been increased. HANFA has adopted a regulation on asset valuation, National newspaper No. 70/2006 and finally all the defenders have received that notice of their stakes. How much will that ultimately be worth? We'll see. Property increased from 2 billion 109 million kuna to 2 billion 987 million kuna in 2006. It's somewhere around 240 million kuna more. Here, just before we heard that this fund today de facto in its portfolio has shares that are estimated at 3 billion 470 million kuna. The profit paid was worth 84.3 million kuna last year. The growth in the value of this property is primarily due to the growth of the value of the INA stock after it is listed in the London Stock Exchange, i.e. on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. There is one problem that the stock was first evaluated on the basis of that conservative assessment when it was estimated at one thousand fifty-eight kuna. According to the list on the stock market, it was 2296 kuna and 16 limes. The assets of the fund have also been increased due to advances, clear dividends for 2005 and this is 56.9 million kuna plus investments in vault records for some 7.9 million kunas, etc. etc. What is also well mentioned when it comes to this fund that so far, public affairs have not penetrated the management of this fund. If, perhaps, if we ignore clearly some of the board members of the board of directors, some of whom are also involved in the Hague mortgage, probably due to questionable behavior during the Homeland War. Of course, I mean here on Mercep. Otherwise the board members, the board of directors, are excused from Mrs Kosor via Mr Djakic, I do not know Boyk, Posilović, Lovrić, etc. But for the time being, unlike the Croatian Privatisation Fund, we see that it operates correctly and remains that way. I said the word in big money. At the end of last year, there were 2 billion 945 million kunas. Today, it's over 3 billion kunas. By the end of the year, the value of this Fund will certainly exceed 4 billion kuna. Clearly when we talk about this Fund, when we talk about the management of this Fund, then it is always about a moral dimension that cannot be expressed only in money and therefore the management of this Fund must be extremely correct, fair, transparent. Our defenders during the war when this conversion was done were usually left without a job, without companies in which they worked, without shares, often with gellers in their bodies, without hands. And some others are clear and you know how they got the property. And it's clearly not fair. It's fair to say what she's doing today, Maestro. Only then is the question of whether it will go to the end. And it's the end of the day in 2007, not the politics, but the end, I'm afraid, is being held by tycoons and monetary institutions. They are to paraphrasise President Mesic's conductors, and some politicians may be only the first violins, but not more. And that is today the position of Croatian politics. And that's unfortunately something that won't be able to change with either the audit or the audit. Croatia is financially networked. In a way, almost trapped. And I almost dare say that the Croatian institutions in 2007 are neither the military nor the judiciary, nor the tourism ministry, but those who employ 10, 15 or 20 thousand people. And not Croatian institutions I don't know the Ministry of Culture or Sports, but those who give the media tens of millions of kunas per month. That's what matters. I think the Fund should evaluate the disabled in one special way. For the first time in 22.6., I heard some positive messages on the holiday in equating the fighters of Homeland and this anti-fascist war. For the first time, IDS didn't get lonely. But I'm afraid after the election, everyone's gonna be driving around like the old ones again, that's what I'm afraid of. And otherwise, I am personally pleased to have that thought in front of the Parliament Presidency, if I am not mistaken, accompanied by Mr. Bebic. And I was even more pleased to see you in Brezovica and Minister Rončević and Kirin singing "In the Forests and the Mountains" like that. You see, in Istria it was so singing in '93. and in 2003 when it was not sung in Brezovica either. But what you will do, which is a sweet ear, is also a sweet heart. And that's a step forward. Here's to the end, we have 41 thousand 904 people with disabilities in the Homeland War. In 2006, we had 10.87% of people with disabilities more than in 2005 when there were about 36,000 of them. How come it's just 10 and so much more in 2006 than in 2007, 2005? Is everything clear here? Although I always say to the disabled everything, to the others as clearly as possible that the state can give. How many credits are shared on this at some other time. But I agree with what some predecessors have said that the next day when those shares appear somehow in that monetary equivalent should be stopped, not then, but before that should stop these bags. Second, what else do you say? When we talk about the crumbs that are given for that population, I claim that's not the case. Croatia for defenders, for restoration, for disabled people plus raising the economy that suffered in wartime, plus raising those areas that suffered in the war, plus what we have special areas of special state care, plus the fund, it is certainly, however, 15 maybe 20% of the total budget. If we add to these war events the early retirement of a large number of our citizens who, due to these or those circumstances, were left without a job then it is gentlemen, perhaps 25, maybe 30% of the budget. The cost of another country is gone. What I fear when it comes to the Fund is that we push through this Fund in some way or that tomorrow we will push these privatisations like I don't know Croatian electricity, water, the forest that is here for this speaker one of the MPs mentioned before me. I think that if this happens, especially if Croatia's electricity goes into privatisation that the whole country will be found in one material, political or not know what kind of addiction it will take, that if it happens we will do the worse thing and from the conversion itself. And that's why it doesn't have to be sold at the cost of strengthening this Fund. Because at the end of the day, what we're handing out tomorrow, we're just going to take those with the same hands that we want to give to God at the moment, or their role during the Homeland War, in particular. As far as the report itself is concerned, the report is acceptable to me. I agree that some of the numbers around the defenders are probably strained. And this morning, before this debate, I had a phone call about, like, a scholarship. He says that children in high school receive scholarships from the ministry of 200 kuna. And now... The Fund, the Fund, the Fund, yes, yes, yes, excuse me, from the Fund, the Fund, so I speak clearly, I stick to the topic of the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So someone doesn't think I'm coming out of these frames. But now he says those contracts they're getting should go verify. That certificate costs about 86 kunas, as I was told, as I was told. And I think that information should be taken over by the state in the future. The point is, however, that neither in 2000 nor in 2001 nor in 2002, in 2003, the defence population was underestimated. And God doesn't seem to me right now. Clearly, before the elections, each government is somewhat wider or more generous, and I don't think this is going to be misused by individual defense associations. And finally, for the first time, one lady after the camera and I think I can express my satisfaction on your behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91167	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vlado Jukic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91168	I am correcting several times the incorrect quote of my colleague Caine, who insinuated that when I talked about crumbs, I was talking about the total separations of the Croatian state for Croatian defenders. I said that in the context of the Croatian Defence Fund, the agenda point is the Croatian Defence Fund and I spoke in the context of privatisation. It is not correct from fellow Caine who has said everything about the disabled several times, that what the state spends on disabled people, which is budget funds in the largest part of 4.5 billion, is spent on meeting the needs of those same disabled people he swears here to give them everything, and then these funds used for them and spent on them, used as an argument that Croatian defenders are not aware of what in a more favourable position in Croatian society. They are crumbs compared to the total amount of privatisation, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91169	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91170	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the last quote is incorrect, but several more in the previous presentation of Mr Caine, where he claimed that neither the government had neglected and ignored Croatian defenders in 2001 to 2003. Not that she wasn't neglecting them, she lifted their rights, their disability, she publicly called them that they were fake disabled from Marinovic General to Dark Bestek and a number of others. She cheated on the president of the country himself to whom she gave the same information, and he had to apologize later. And to talk about the fighting sector, a non-combat sector that Mr. Cain has no idea about, because he's saying that the defender in Vukovar who got hit by the tank didn't get the same points as the cleaning lady. It clearly speaks of the division and criteria for the allocation of shares in the Croatian Defence Fund and is divided into the fighting and non-combat sectors. The non-combat sector is institutions and services that did not directly participate in the preparation and execution of combat actions, but were in the role of the fighting sector and in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and have only one point for this. To know that you should have read this and this was made public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91171	Okay. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91172	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families for 2006 will be accepted as a club, because this is a correct report that speaks of the state of affairs of those shares that we have assigned to those who manage these interests that with the attention of a good host try within the law as it is, and should be considered and discussed, but I will do so in the second part. As I was saying, they were very well managed by those assets entrusted to them in some way to manage it within that closed fund. Of course, I wouldn't be opening the controversy here in 91, 96, 94, 95. However, at different levels and at different times and in different ways, activities took place either in 91st, in Sibenik it was a September war of 95th, but it was an open aggression that was in the middle of the 9th month. Of course, by the 4th and 5th months, you have activities that were absolutely on the trail of resistance that occurred during the open aggression. Therefore, there is no need to bid now with these events, they are remembered by those who participated in them. When it comes to the structure, that is, the list of defenders who are in place, the way of combat and non-combating, you know no law, no matter how fair you want to write it, the purest, can honestly be the mirror of the difficulties and troubles that occurred in the Homeland War. Therefore, you can draw examples from this spectrum and claim that there is no full justice if we want to rank it at all. But that's impossible. You know, it's impossible for all these individual cases to try to valorize, and that's why there's this middle of the fighting and non-combating sector. As far as she's fully affected, of course she's not. Of course, there are always modals that would find different answers at a particularly lower level. But here today we are still talking about something more important to me than these surface reasons and disagreements that have arisen in the debate, and I think the fundamental question would be that this fund, which now makes up 3 billion and 400, or 3 billion and 700 something before, maybe tomorrow 4, how to really become what the legislator is, and we all want it to represent it together. So he doesn't get wasted once. That he is not something that will now happen to make it easier for the conscience of those who have proposed him, for that is not his purpose. Its purpose is that if he can, and we think that there can be both time and way that this good idea and this report that says exactly what I'm saying can be brought together. It was said here that, unfortunately, it should be seen when privatisation in this sector will come to other state-owned companies and public institutions, that it would be known exactly when these shares could be transferred and how they could be available, etc. etc. I don't see any reason why privatisation itself in these companies should happen from Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian electricity and a whole series of other public sectors and resources to be found there. Who says there's going to be privatisation in the first place? I don't think there's any fresh privatisation with us trying to boost the strength of this Fund. Privatisation may be said, it won't happen in all these sectors. It doesn't have to be a prerequisite for what's good for this Fund to happen. Of course, the main dilemma that appears here in some way is we have enough experience when it comes to values, securities, damages, from the PIF's famous who are in some way threatening and can in some way relate to this debate, which have shown all the lack of this system of complete non-state interference in what a citizen or what individual structures will do to what they're assigned. Such an one let's say the attitude that was completely not going to interfere with that right is every single person's right to do what he thinks is best for him and he will certainly do it, it led to the fact that from the total assets of the PIFs paid to those who were paid maybe 1 to 2%. So those mechanics who are very good at doing business on the financial market and otherwise find their place on the market and position themselves exactly in that sort of thing. I don't think it would be good to bring this fund under the same system of completely unfair redistribution, and of course if next year 2008 opens full liberalisation and the right to share shares, that they can be sold freely on the market, then of course what is quite evident already today will happen. Of course, we can't act so educationally and we can't just through this education warn or seek a better direction to convince people who are in trouble and who simply aren't always to deal with these stakes and shares that they don't do what they're going to do to the one who's going to go around them and they're going to sell it at a very low price and they will, and that fund will then lose their meaning. Therefore, it should be considered what is happening in the world, and in Europe too, with these closed funds that it is permanently strengthened, that perhaps the primary surrender of shares and values rests on society itself, to make it possible first and foremost so-called. The first purchase of the share of the value of the fund itself, that the state takes another step and strengthens that fund and that it is not only once lost because then we will say again if such practice continues, and unfortunately we have witnessed that it often happens to us and that it is possible that it also happens in this case. I think it's good that we've already taken these good steps, when we've taken a good path, when the fund management hasn't made mistakes, when there's no public affairs because they're not there, when there's just one good picture of the environment. Let us not allow us to spend two years and a good picture and a good foundation of this fund, and we will spend it if we liberalise the right to be on the free market according to the conditions that are, that the bags can go around and buy it, because these values and those shares will be added in a few years, especially if they are given these strategic shares of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian electro-privreds, these will be shares that will naturally get ten times the amount. And it's too short to affirm themselves until mid-2008 or I don't know when it would be liberalized to achieve, and you know stockbrokers can do and the price doesn't rise, but when the time comes, they know how to do it, they have mechanisms in their hands how to maintain the stock values on one, second and third levels, and the holders of these rights unfortunately don't have those skills, and they don't, and therefore the public authority must be in their function, and they must protect them, because I claim that it doesn't work here, someone will say that we are trying to regulate the financial market. Of course it could be that way. However, laws are passed in order to do some good, someone good. I argue that this small non-liberalisation of this fund system could achieve the result that we all want to achieve together, which is that it is one permanent fund that will permanently care, which will be a witness one time, which will simply show that it can be different in Croatia, that it does not need something one-time sale to make fun of us tomorrow as we have sold it cheaply. It's just that we try to do something better on this example, and I believe it can be done. Because you know all together, you have a whole series of funds that are also pension funds, and funds of certain structures that go to Europe and look for good shelters, buy shares in Croatian companies, multiply values, so they create a new value, and still represent the property of those who are. Therefore, I believe that here within this fund, a new step can be achieved by both public authorities and those who own the stakes, meaning that the law is changed, that it be built up and that the measures that will simply be put in place for this sale that will clearly follow if we do not put a decimal behind it or a point happen to try to solve it. Of course, that payment is the way it was, it'd be dimming, it would re-demit the defense population, it would somehow throw mud at it all together again, because as soon as you got into that market, it's the way it is. So without a clear takeover of public authority responsibility, I'm afraid this could go the wrong way. Of course, as far as the public list and publication of the defense attorneys are concerned, I don't think we should even speculate about it. I think the wrong views are colleagues who are pushing for it to be published. Well, they're not members of a voluntary fire company. It is not singing choirs that walked in Croatian countries and sang songs. These are people who have had their own fates, these are people who have faced different roles and tasks in various situations. They're people who don't even want that side that was hostile to them yesterday. These are the people whose lives can be threatened because of this. Well, we can't allow it, and in the end one thing for those who always call for human rights, I guess that's human rights that if I don't want my name to be announced that no one has the right to publish it to me. So I think it's quite obvious, and it's a completely political speculation that it should be published on these videos right now. Here I think the report is good, but here I think as one of our club's proposals to be in the interest of both the defenders and this fund, but also our public responsibilities to consider the possibility of next year not moving and not giving everyone selling their shares. I don't want to say that that's what we want to challenge their rights. Moreover, we want to strengthen their rights and give them even greater benefits for this, and we want to give them even more profits, but to keep the dignity that is necessary for Croatian defenders, and even if the state participates in further costs, it will remain if this fund is developed as independent, as affirmative, and if it is in the function of defenders, their families, but especially those who need it more than others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91173	Thank you. President of the Trust Management Board, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91174	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here's because the clubs had just finished the debate I had to call again, thanks to all the cars you've been constructively discussing, thanks for the suggestions. I will, of course, pass on these proposals to the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, and it is certain that the Management Board of the Fund will discuss this and make decisions as it has always made with full responsibility, first of all, towards those represented in the Management Board, according to Croatian defenders and members of their families. It is certain that this is the first time that we have such a large fund with which the property is growing and managed by the Croatian defenders themselves, they decide on everything and without their decision, but nobody in Croatia can change anything and can not point to any side if they do not decide or everything is made in accordance with their wishes, so of course it will be related to these proposals that we have just heard. But I thank you anyway. Since I was talking about the assets of the fund here, I want to inform you about the current number, I think it is also very important and very good that the Management Board of the Fund reports to the Croatian Parliament every year, that you MPs and MPs can control how this property is managed. So 3 billion 479 million 818 thousand 895 kuna and 66 limes, that's the exact number here today, and I believe that next year we're going to talk about growth in the period to be reported. Since the fund was talked about here, of course, but it was also talked about caring for Croatian defenders, so many of the representatives who spoke on behalf of the clubs came out of the topic, which I absolutely and completely understand. I want to say at the end of this debate on behalf of the clubs some information that I think is important. So, along with the Croatian Defence Fund, together with the Fund for Scholarshipship and the Croatian Defence Fund, which I repeat, is once again managed by management boards in which most of them have a Croatian defender, most of them have Croatian defenders. So here we have, from the end of 2003 to this year, increased the total funds for caring for Croatian defenders and members of their families by an additional 2 billion and 200 million kuna. In the past, we have paid back about half a billion debts according to the 2001 law because of the failure to comply with certain provisions of that law. Of course, they paid a few million or so, last year 33 million in lawsuits brought by Croatian defenders to Croatian courts. We have just begun to translate in April this year, which is a legal obligation under the 2005 law, many know about it. According to this translation, which is a legal obligation, many have received higher incomes, which is fine and I think it is in line with the government's intensities to care for Croatian defenders as one of the pillars of the government's programme. Also, as the rebalancing will soon be debated, I expect that there will be some more news about translation, but I will not reconsider until the government accepts budget rebalancing. I must also say that as far as employment is concerned, we have invested about 100 million kuna in employment, only in employment, that here, at the beginning of the term of office, we have 0 cooperatives, now we have about 200 Croatian defence cooperatives, of which 101 supported the Croatian Defence Ministry in cash. 40 cooperatives this year. However, we will go to the opening of a new tender for 25 new cooperatives, as it is a measure that shows particular interest and excellent results. So in this year 65 new cooperatives would be founded or supported by the ministry. We also got 333 cars for 100% disabled first group who were supposed to get those cars years ago but didn't. Therefore, we have also fulfilled that legal obligation. They started the apartment building. Here, on Antifascist Fight Day, I just assigned the keys to 17 apartments in Netretic, a week before 32 in Varazdin. It's almost 48 apartments in Metkovic, 481 are being built right now. 321 is preparing to build. Large objects in Trogir, Kastela 90 apartments etc. A large number will be finished this year and a large number of course next year. Here, I had to say that because the debate went beyond the fund itself. And I want to end up because there was a lot of discussion about how much data we have on the register about how many Croatian defenders, how many days did they participate in the Homeland War? So up to 6 months 177 thousand 205, more than 6 months 312 thousand 202. From 6 months to one year 102 thousand 590, from one year to two years 78 471, from two to three years 38 thousand 115, from three to four years 30 thousand 638, from four to five years 42 thousand 705, more than five years 19 thousand 683. So a total of 489 thousand 407. So, the data from the register are very precise and I ask Mrs. MPs and Mr. MPs, whoever needs to get that information, will get full insight and review means for every month, first entry into the Croatian Army or the Ministry of Interior and all other data by age that you can track and that one day I believe and then we finally take that topic off the agenda. Because I repeat, it's election year, ladies and gentlemen! Please, let's not politicise about Croatian defenders. Statistics on suicides, and I'm going to end it, show that the highest number of suicides was in election years. So in '95, '99, it means before the election and 2003. Let's do everything in this year's figure, because it's in decline compared to last year, so that the figure is smaller and smaller every day. I think it's us who are on the political stage that we can do a lot but only together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91175	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91176	Your Honor, Mr. President! The report submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister seems quite good and acceptable. The Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been passed. The Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defence and Family Members has also been passed. She said that both the Fund and the foundation are funded from one-third of the Croatian Defence Fund's profits from the Homeland War and 60-40% in favour of the foundation. The total value of the Fund has increased to over 3 billion and is quite well. However, the report says that the payment of part of the dividend to the Fund members will only follow when the register is final, which is not the case now because of the changes being made in it. And when will be able to calculate the value of the individual share. Now the only logical question now is, how long until the defense register is finished? That's what I'm asking for so you don't delay the payment of a share of the dividend. Because as it usually becomes a promise before the election, we're going to split the dividend, and then after the election, there's a sudden delay in payment because, for example, the defence registry hasn't been completed yet. Behind this really sweet report, there's still a lot of illogicality. The money is secured over 3 billion and that's very good, but the criteria are still lax. The first illogicality is again the defense register. According to this figure, there are 489 407 thousand defenders who are divided into a combat and non-combat sector. And regardless of the severity of offering arguments for that non-combat sector, I think that's the so-called. the non-combat sector is a major injustice for defenders, war fighters and for all those who today use the benefits of this Fund. The non-combat defender is probably the one who did not necessarily have a gun in his hand or had it in his closet and that very logic of the non-combat defender, any citizen who during the war by his work through taxes contributed to the Croatian budget could be classified into this non-combat sector. For example, members of civil protection who were on duty in part of Croatia or healthcare professionals of Croatian healthcare institutions throughout Croatia who were practically constantly in the bag. Who visited the war affected areas by supplying both the military and civilians with the necessary medications and other supplies. And so it seems to me that this non-combat sector that has blown up this figure is really unfair and in some way legalizing what war profit could be said because it gives the right to those who will benefit from the Homeland War. I can't characterize that any other way. Another illogicality is the score system. And after the creation of this defence registry, it also came very superficially to the system of determining the share of the Defence Fund that will belong to each war participant depending on the length, period and form of participation. What affects defenders the most, and what they constantly complain about, and what they are constantly warning about is that the period from 1992 to April 1995 is considered so-called. with a peacetime period and only a single point of a maximum 8. No matter what the period was, several liberating actions involving 40,000 people were conducted and 250 defenders were killed. Which was the period of military operations and the Homeland War, for example "Storms" that stings with only 3 points. Therefore, the system of determining the share of the Defence Fund has placed so much illogical that the share, for example, of the participants of major major military operations, will be equal to even less than the share of those who have never participated in the same. That is, with defenders who were on the front lines, the same as those who watched the war on television. I don't think it's about money or points, but really respecting the right defence rights and the morality of such a point. This number of defenders is very large. And is he even real? And I ask myself, are we ever going to get to the right number of Croatian defenders? I don't think we'll do it anymore because we've divided them into combat, non-combat. I'm only going to make one example. In 1997, at the end of 1997, the Office of the President of the Republic asked the Ministry of Defence to submit a list of those who defended Vukovar because it was due to award a war medal for Vukovar. The DOD signed a list of over 10,000 people. If 10,000 people had defended Vukovar Vukovar would never have gone the way he did. So we constantly have a problem with the real and the wrong defenders. And it seems to me that we are the only country in the world in which, even in times of peace, the number of defenders is growing. The vice president said in 1996 there were 206,000 of them, and now we have 489 thousand. Of course, because we included in this list all those who were not really defenders. I think that by the next parliamentary elections, we will be handling the number of 1 million defenders on all grounds. And that this list will also be a secret list that can't be seen. And as far as the list itself is concerned, I don't think I agree with those who said the list should be kept secret. No list in this country should be kept secret. In particular, it is illogical from the position that such non-selective documents were sent to which courts especially those in The Hague, and for example the list of Croatian defenders must remain secret. Well, it's like there's been a civil war going on here, so now someone has to be ashamed of defending the country. If the list of Croatian anti-fascist fighters was public, why should the list of Croatian defenders not be public. Of course the argument for hiding from the public is all. For example, some foreign funds already have a list of all Croatian defenders. For example, the argument will not be possible to obtain a visa for Australia or Canada because you are on the list of Croatian defenders. I think it's all a lot of nonsense and there should be political courage and guts when such a large number get high and show who the real Croatian defenders really were. That's what the defenders are looking for. They're not asking for the inflatable number, they're asking for the exact information, and then their rights according to everything the vice president listed. The money is unfortunately secured, but the criteria are not made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91177	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by respected representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91178	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote. Dear colleagues, this is not a eloquent report. This is a realistic business report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91179	Other respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91180	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am going to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Škara where she says that the combat and some non-combat sectors do not solve the problem of Croatian defenders and that the evaluation and score in those categories does not actually bring a fair assessment of the condition of those who were. Namely, the greatest threat of the Republic of Croatia and the aggression that has taken place since 2.5.'91. until 15.1.'92. There are eight points fixed for the year and during that time. At that time there is also a certain number that I will talk about later in my replicas exactly in dates and times, and everything else from 5.8th to 1.5.'91. It's five points. Also, as I pointed out once before, the non-combat sector is one point, and if it hadn't been for that non-combat sector that provided logistics, weapons, uniforms, food and everything else, do you think that for more than a month any warrior would have lasted on the battlefield? Do you think the safety of Croatia would be such? Do you think the army is based only on the one that takes the gun and goes out in the field? I mean, you have no idea what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91181	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91182	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. This debate normally always, given the election year, takes on some other characters. But since I've been in the Department of Defense since September of the 1990s, we've been thinking about some things when what was going on and how it happened, as well as my colleague Seks, and Slaven Letica, I'm still a little bit different and I'm glad that this fact that I also asked the Deputy Prime Minister to specifically say that there are 489 000, 407 defenders in that figure, as far as he is now in the register, that he says exactly what number to six months he participated in the Homeland War. So that's your 177,000 figure. And now that we take this figure that the entire period of the Homeland War only took part in the 1960s, it certainly gives a completely different picture and an objective picture, given everything and how it was and how it happened. In fact, when you're dismembered in the end and this figure is up to 6 months out of 177,000 you'll see that there were a lot of people who were a few days, 15 days to a month or two days. Let's say I can specifically say that unfortunately this figure is up to 177,000 and the military bonds that have been mobilized, so he's been called for mobilization. But he immediately asked for a reference to the recruiting committee or for medical or other documentation, because he believes he was incapacitated or temporarily incapable of military service. And that number is not a small number, but unfortunately there was this mistake that as soon as he answered the mobilization site he was as such introduced into the unit records. And I know cases of individuals collecting up to four months in that way. Up to 4 months they collected even though they were de facto not at all in the unit where he was mobilized, but all the time he was walking on medical or novice commissions to avoid this part of the mobilization. So when you take that information and all of this is well, we can only argue from this point of view. That's not what the government was doing, so this part of the fund was working on the score. Maybe you could take some other ratios, say, for this '600, so some special points add up to that part, and then maybe especially to volunteers. But now it's a matter of other and wider debates. And also, as far as we're concerned, there are a lot of disputes about whether to publish or not to publish the register of Croatian defenders. That sounds nice and political, but I still think we need to take care of Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says to everyone, guarantees the security and confidentiality of personal data without the consent of the respondents, may be collected, processed and used only under the terms of a certain law. So there's, there's this legal problem because if you take this part of the secret from the area of defense exactly to you and today stands in the regulations of participation, time, the unit, what it was doing in the war. It's like a secret information day today. That's how it is out there, you can't, say, publish any data, and that's the Law on the Protection of Personal Data without consent. So there could be a part of it, let's say, as if an insight could be done, like a list of voters or part of it, but that kind of thing can't be used. Or, unfortunately, I can abuse myself. I think we should really wait for this answer and the agencies and all that, so find one solution that will take into account all these facts. If one of the defenders doesn't want his name published on the list, unfortunately, it can't be done. An insight can be made, but if he does not want to be done, so I say in this section, we must also keep an eye on Article 37. It also means that the Government is going through this part of the register precisely and even smaller periods so that the rights of images are acquired as many participants of Croatian defenders, during which period would it not be thought that almost half a million Croatian defenders were defended throughout Croatia. You yourself know the situation, the attitude of the International Community. The first thing we did in the ninth month of the 1990s increased the reserve of the police, because otherwise nothing could be done from 40 to 80,000. Then we went to law on, we formed the National Guard Assembly, but we couldn't form it as a Croatian army. We had to go through the Home Office as part of a special, we formed the National Guard Assembly. So these are all the circumstances that people are talking about right now, and we know that at that time, they're from the “balvan of revolution” that all things have been happening. We made the defense law and passed it on June 26, '91. But unfortunately, because of the international community's position and the part of the decision to declare independence, we had to postpone until October 8, and the Law on Defence as such was only published in September because it was not possible to do everything that had been done. Thus, it is easy now to speak and use the media in some things that people do not even know how and how they happen. It should also be said that we brought the defence plan, the late president brought it in July of '91. and that in August we were already mobilizing in those areas where we had weapons and how many and where we were to be implemented. But if everyone is looking from their point of view, then there's a whole other picture of what's been going on. There's no Mr. Luke Baby. Those things, I was the president of this very task force to develop a defense plan, a military conquest plan. Luka Bebic was a minister at the time, and at the time a major move was made in forming the defence. Let's just say today nobody's saying it's September 12th, '91. The year according to the plan of winning the military president, the deceased made a decision to conquer the military because we lost our weapons. So, we're out of guns. But no one mentions that date today. That's September 12, '91. It was a situation when we were completely out of guns, if we knew what the situation was and everything else was. Therefore, it should be guided when it comes to this matter and the account and the history of what and how and how it happened, and also then the ministry as such on this basis I propose to inform the Croatian public in this part, meaning that it is seen exactly in which period whoever participated, not to say today there are 500 thousand Croatian defenders, there is no Ms Vesna Škara Ozbolt, she is now talking about the documentation sent to The Hague. Well, she was a minister when it was salty to The Hague. As such, she also sent that documentation to The Hague. The same way he's talking, let's say that I think we can say it more properly when we've filed a request for an investigative commission and everything else. Here, in the end, I'd just look back on this one more part. Normally, there are a lot of expectations for Croatian defenders themselves and everything about this Fund and the stakes and everything else. But unfortunately, that's where I have to figure out what part of what was found in the State Review's results on conversion and privatisation. Some things happened earlier that certain companies in the commercial property of the state as such should have had the right and the defenders could have expected their share, but the daughters’ companies were established in due time and were then privatised as such. We have this in various areas. We have an INA that has daughters and all the other parts. So that's how it happened. Normally, in any case, it is necessary to prevent this part that has already been said about these various different bags that already offer to the defenders the purchase of these shares and everything else in order not to end up as the first part when Croatian wartime disableds began to receive first according to the '94 Defence Act. the years of those first shares, so we know how and how it ended. And now only in the end, when the minister spoke about pensions and everything else remains the problem of the lowest pension, to those Croatian defenders who were retired earlier, who have the right to do so according to Article 31. Unfortunately, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute does not apply this. The last time there was a report the Deputy Prime Minister promised the government would come out with these changes. There is not much meaning for Croatian defenders to use this right for the lowest pension, but to pass them the Croatian Pensions Institute because it interprets the law as referring only to persons who retire after the law enters into force, i.e. 1.1.2005. There's a lot of people. Among them are the "Both of them, both of them have fallen.""you remember that historic one at Sibenik. One of them died, or three of them did, and these two unfortunately don't exercise that right. There are also many people in the area and Slavonia and everywhere who have retired. I think we should really work it out this way. Without amending the law, it is only a matter of interpreting transitional and final translation provisions. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91183	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91184	... at the fact that it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91185	No, you're not. You're not. ... It seems to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91186	But here I have this next to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91187	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91188	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am already data from this Report that the value of all securities and other assets in the portfolio of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families on 31.12.2006 amounted to 2.945 billion kuna, that the increase in value compared to 31.12.2005 may be 39.59% may make any comment too high. Because these numbers, these amounts, they say everything. However, a positive comment is needed in any case. The amounts expressed show all the justification for the formation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, confirm in this way the care and concern of the Republic of Croatia for those whose merits are little to say immeasurable. The law lays down, among other things, that the annual profit of the Fund is allocated in a way that 1/3 net profit belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, namely 60% of the 1/3 net profit, and the remaining 40% is directed to the Croatian Defence Fund and children of Croatian defenders, in accordance with the law that passed this High House. The realised profit of the Fund, i.e. 1/3, will be deducted from 2005 as well as 1/3 of the realised profits for 2006 will be paid for the definition of ownership shares in the Fund, individual equity shares. According to nearly 500 thousand members, one small percentage is controversial, about 4% said. The registry must be arranged, updated so that payment may occur and there may be as few objections, although it is necessary to say so to such a large number of Fund members, there are always some disputed cases. It is necessary to highlight the extremely high unrealised profit of the Fund of around 860 million kuna, which was achieved primarily through the increase in INA stock prices. And it's kind of good and good and commendable and part of that game around the stocks. INA shares account for 53.79% of the Fund's assets plus HT shares 41.59% of the Fund's shares. And to repeat, the amounts expressed show all the justification for the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, as one of the kinds of concerns and concerns of the Republic of Croatia for those who are one of the most responsible for the creation of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I welcome this year's 2006 report submitted by the Fund's Management Board. And allow me, I'd like to add that I'm joining here in an appeal to the Croatian defenders, members of the Fund, not to be led for the currently tempting bids to sell the stakes in the Fund. The fund is for the defenders and family members, for the defenders, and not for the bags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91189	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91190	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I certainly support this Report on the Croatian Defence Fund, which is concise and transparent. But what is most important to you is that the value of the Fund has grown to 2 billion 945 million 131 thousand, which is almost 40% higher than in 2005. There were words here that it wasn't even money, so they were small and so on. But here we now hear that with today's day, the value of the Fund's assets is 3 billion 479 thousand 811. And what I would like to do here is keep a report on the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence. It is almost the same as it was set aside in 2003 for the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence. That's the value of the Fund. So it can't possibly stand some of the claims that it's such a small value that it doesn't mean much. I do well to believe that this profit is divided which is a significant, significant profit of 919 million 627 thousand. It is also big money that is divided rationally into the meaning of reinvestment, dividend for shareholders, and it is particularly important that one third of the day is also for the resolution of social humanitarian issues, which certainly enabled the establishment of a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders and also the foundations of Croatian defenders. Here are the immediate results that have already been given 2 thousand 872 scholarships in 2006, which means the largest part of high school, which is what we have here and the tendency to have secondary education, so this has already been done in this direction by a thousand 916 we have 930 scholarships for colleges and what is so important because we have opted for the country of knowledge that 26 were participations in postgraduate studies. It's all very important moves. Here, too, would look back on the trust fund. We see that the foundation has had 25 million kunas, a little bit more and it is actually for these truly individual situations, the unforeseen situations in which Croatian defenders find themselves. And here I would support what is stated in the report of the Homeland War veterans that in fact very little and almost certainly no positive examples are highlighted, and positive examples so here is just this that there is a foundation that has 25 million kunas that can in some difficult situations help to prevent many serious consequences. Well, here we have read and we know that some Croatian defenders have committed suicide because of some small debt of 30, 50 or not. And so this is a foundation that I can always rely on. Here, a colleague of Skarre said that we are the only country that is growing in peace with the number of defenders. Well, that's no wonder. I have a positive example that I really appreciate that it happened that about a thousand and 200 volunteer defenders, those who were the first, I know, I was all the time in County what was the situation when they took really bare-arms and hunting rifles, bought themselves bullets and were extremely happy if they were able to find them and entered the defense of the homeland. Now they've managed to resolve their status, and that's why we're increasing our number, and that's how it's supposed to be. Then there was a lot of talk here about this register of Croatian defenders who then had a share in this fund, that it was 489 thousand and that it was a large number. Well, that's somewhere, here's when I was thinking it's about 12, 13% of the total population of the combat and non-combat sectors, and there's a lot of the non-combat sector like Djakic said and what would happen to the combat population if there were no non-combatants. Well, we health care professionals have made a very good contribution, and if it weren't for sure there wouldn't have been many lives saved and there wouldn't have been any safety action on... I would also support the minister as she said that we should discuss these topics carefully because she always creates these with Croatian defenders of great tension and, in fact, those most drastic measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, if we look at the 2006 report that has shown the suicides of Croatian defenders per year, we see that it turns out during the elections or if the legislation that did not go into favour with Croatian defenders has grown so that it was '95. The year was 132, then, in 2001, when the laws began to change, and when Croatian defenders actually declared themselves false defenders and that it was an imaginary large number, then in 2001 it was suicide 130, and then 2002. It grew to 138 in 120 and 2003. This really shows that when it comes to this very sensitive population and a very significant population, it needs to be debated with due respect both with caution and ultimately with facts. I would say that this fund is only one of the common policies of one continuous and comprehensive policy when it comes to Croatian defenders because it is certainly a fund today that is also a trend to invest more money in funds, rather than, rather than, to invest everything in savings and so, it really means something that will ensure one security and the future and Croatian defenders and their families and should not happen if those shares are sold. We see here now some are for that, not to limit the time period when it will be sold, others are for it to be limited. So let's just remind the privatisation. We're all talking here... For centuries, but during the privatisation, we had 51% of employees at privileged prices, and then because of lack of instruction or because of the urgency of selling those shares and society failed to protect them, so they lost their valuable shares to invaluableness, and companies came to tycoons who later destroyed them because they did not pay them enough, and they did not know that they did not even appreciate them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this one, this Croatian Defence Fund is one segment in the continuing care, and I would just remind here that really not here when we're talking, we need to repeat this 100 million kuna number that is invested in employment, which is very important because I think in some way that those who are Croatian military people, they're taken care of, while those others who have had the good fortune that they haven't gotten sick or are not wounded are in something more difficult situation. And here I am pleased to hear from the minister that the number of cooperatives is now 200 when we had 120 in this 2006 report, so the number of cooperatives is growing and I personally think that this is the best way to hire Croatian defenders. I see that they are best equipped and that in some way the best mental recovery is being made, and I am glad that this trend continues, that we are not talking about the Law on Croatian Defence and what you mentioned is the lowest pension that is very important right now. I think it's a little bit of a presentation of what it's going to mean for someone who hasn't achieved any other right to retire when he comes to 60 or 65 years of age to have the lowest pension, so I say that this fund is part of, I see that time expires, a continuous, comprehensive policy in Croatian defenders, and they certainly deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91191	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go. Before that, the replica, I'm sorry, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91192	Well, here's Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm going to replicate to my colleagues about the number of Croatian defenders, so I would like to remind you that anyone who wanted to dispose of the facts and discuss with the facts in the Croatian Parliament could have received a full report from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior gave additional effort to dismember exactly what the volunteers were, which was the first time they entered the Croatian Army and the police. So I will point out that according to the number of defenders registered at the first entry in the MUP or the Croatian Army by 15.1.1992, it is 272 thousands and 782 people. It is 55.74% of the total number of Croatian defenders. Next thing you know, it's '92. The year after 15.1. entered the Croatian Army and police units for the first time and that is 74 thousand 799 Croatian defenders or 15.28%. '93. 48 thousand 741. '94. 28 grand and 896. '95. during operations "Blash" and "Storm", "Summer" and all others which were 60,000 and 45 or 12.27% of the total number of Croatian defenders. And '96. 4000 144. I would also like to say that these data that are complete clearly distinguishes how many men have entered Croatian troops and how many women, so I believe that women who are represented in enough numbers in the entire population of Croatian defenders will also be said something about them. In the later part, I'll pick up a couple more times for the replica, and I'll fill that in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91193	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91194	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Djakic, well, that he has repeated these figures once again, and it's good that he is in the debate, although I say in the media he can't even read it, that he has a detailed record of the debt he has made, of the number of combat, of the non-combating sector, so that there are no flat and dangerous claims that the housekeeper will be given more points in the fund than the one who took part in the most difficult battles. Here, in order for such untruths as I say to be, which then create dissatisfaction and may have more serious consequences, it is good to present and always speak with numbers, and I always agree. I think it should be more highlighted and more public presence.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91195	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91196	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice President of the Croatian Government! Well, this debate shows that the report is extremely correct, and everyone agrees. They also agreed on the Assembly Committee on War Veterans representatives of all associations attending the committee meeting. In fact, this report looks at the government's attitude towards the defenders, not only because of this situation in the fund, but also on other issues that are extremely important for all defenders. What is important with the fund is that the assets of the fund will be constantly increased as the privatisation process is under way, the assets of this fund will be increased, and it is certain that from this place it is necessary to tell all defenders that despite all possible difficulties, the problems will not be sold to the financial and other shares, because these equity shares will be worth far more in three, four, five years. But here, the discussions of some colleagues invited me not to speak exclusively of the fund, for in some discussions several colleagues spoke about whether it was too much or too little counsel? All of them, of course, who talked about somehow having too many defenders. Otherwise, I believe that everyone who participated in the defense of the homeland that was one wheel and everyone made their contribution depending on their abilities and defenders are those who meet the conditions in accordance with the Law on Defence. The defender can't be too much or too little. The defender has as many as there were and who were participants in the Homeland War. Some of them were destroying tanks but I don't think it's good to say that some of them were destroying tanks, others were cooking and having the same points. I'd say, since I'm a participant of the Homeland War myself and there's a company that works or combats that does certain jobs, there's a sanity, there's logistics and other parts of the unit that are equally important and without which those who go into combat action can't. That's why I don't think we should go into these divisions, because the divisions weren't on the front line or the defenders were dividing by whether he destroyed two tanks, so he was more valuable than the one who cooked for him or who took care of him when he was wounded. It's all equally important. But of course, I can't keep my mouth shut about what my colleague Kurt said in the debate on behalf of the HNS Club, which is particularly surprising to me, and I don't know if that's what he said so recklessly in his debate, which is that of '90. and '91. were they sending children, we were sending children to JNA, and how is it possible that, during that time, some people would recognize the status of defenders? It insults me even as a defense attorney. I believe that's what the people who represent the Special Police Associations Mr. Sacic and others have heard and will draw certain conclusions from that. And what I think is that a colleague of Kurt's and others who think so should know that the '90s, that certain actions were in the '90s, that it was the '90s. It started forming the police, that they were in '91. Some of the troops organized in Rakiti, among other things, that there was a special unit called "Lučko". And what that special unit did in the war doesn't deserve even 1% of what my colleague Kurt said in his debate. And not just him, because he mentioned that in '91. There were no combat actions, then I wonder what happened in Bor's village? Who went there? What happened in Bor's village when 12 officers died, whose unit I was? I can't keep it quiet. How did Franco Fox die on May 2, 1991? How did Josip Jovic die? Do you recognize his status or not? Not according to Mr. Kurt. But they're heroes, they're heroes of the Homeland War. At that time, it may bother some that at that time they may not have been volunteers of the Homeland War, so the war begins from the moment they took the rifle and became members of a particular unit. What I don't think is so good to argue about is the people who at that time put themselves honestly and honestly in the defense of the homeland and who at that time manifested pure joy by not looking at their lives and putting themselves in the defense of the homeland first. That's why they're called volunteers, and I don't need to, and I'm not about to share defenders by who was first, who was third? It is equally worth the one who participated in the action "Glass" and the one who participated in the action Mirkovci. Also here in the Mirkovci of my unit died several of my friends in 1991. What are those less valuable than those who died in action later? Here's to conclude, I think in these debates about defenders and everything about the defenders, you need to be extremely careful and sensitive that no such insinuations and doubts happen, as a colleague of Kurt's said. I don't think this contributes to one correct relationship with all the defenders because all the defenders have made every contribution within their capabilities in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91197	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91198	Mr. President, colleague Chuljak again or knowingly misread my words or lied. The war began in 1991 from 5, 6 months to 9 months in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Until then, they were just a spare composition of the MUP and they were guarding objects like they're doing now. And they are no defenders nor fought in any area nor was there war in Croatia In 15.3.1991, we're still sending our soldiers to JNA. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And who do you think you were fighting at the time? I'll tell you where you fought? You fought in private apartments robbing apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91199	I give you a warning from my colleague Kurt. You insult the defenders, you insult the representative of Culk. There were very limited military operations, of course. And in May, and in Borov Village, and in the Mirkovites. Many are dead, many are wounded That's what we're talking about. [[That's what I'm saying it was.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Please. ... Order! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Order! Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the President of the Helen Parliament, the Greek Parliament, Mrs Anna Benaki, who is on an official visit to Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91200	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, here's a replica of my colleague, Culka. Since he did not define where he came from for such statements by fellow Kurts and they relate, his forgetfulness, which was probably instructed by his political mentors who say we were aggressors in the Homeland War, that we had committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. So probably from there and from this forget that the reserve composition of the Croatian police is armed on the ground I can tell Mr. of the late President Tudjman, the Croatian Democratic Community, then Minister Martin Špegel and others to form the core of the defence against the apparent aggression that has taken place in all areas and wanted to really come and reach the border of Virovitica-Karlovac-Karlobag. If you really think of such offensive words, by distorting historical facts that are truly kalashnikovs that have been obtained from everywhere and every time armed the reserve composition of the Croatian police to defend what can be defended at these moments and if you have truly succumbed to the authority of your president who says we are aggressors, then I am sorry to be with you colleague and friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91201	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91202	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague, Djakic, replicates me rather than his colleagues, Culjka. And I've been volunteering since day one. I armed myself with 12,000 marks. So don't throw anything in my mouth that doesn't even stand in madness. And when you're replicating a colleague of Culka, then you can replicate with him and not with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91203	The reply to the replica, the Tomislav Culjak, was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91204	Well, here's a thank you for this replica. Since I have been given the opportunity through this replica to answer what you asked me and what I may not have mentioned. But now I see that what my colleague Kurt said is not an accident. I thought he was confused, but he didn't get confused because he repeats the same words and even insults me and the other defenders by saying that by a certain period when he says that he started the war, he robbed and I don't know what else he was doing. Well colleague Kurt if, if you don't know then I am, I am, I'm replicating...... On purpose, I'm replicating my colleague but I'm talking about a colleague of Kurt's. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you can laugh all you want... You can, I can work, I can mention others in my replica [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Peace please!]] And what Kurt's colleague said, my colleague Djakic asked me why I didn't say certain things that exist. [[Intruder: Peace please!]] Here's what I'm gonna say. I, as a participant of the Homeland War of 2.5.1990, have been in special police status since 1991, and until then I organized certain special police and other police units in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. And I wonder, here comes fellow Djakic, why then some of the colleagues you mentioned think of the Balvan Revolution, was the Balvan revolution justified? Shouldn't we have reacted as a country to the logs at all? We should have let those who set up the logs do what they wanted in Croatia. Because if it wasn't then, those who were in charge of the organisation of the defense of the Republic of Croatia at the time, then they were paratroopers to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91205	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Željko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91206	Well, Mr. President, I don't know how to let the dignity of the Croatian Parliament fall like this. They're replicating each other, and they're replicating to me. If my colleague Culjak has the courage to tell me who I was proud to die for the Croatian homeland and who I gave money and closed the company and all went to war you have the courage to tell me that I, perhaps I support the “balvan revolution”. Well, I don't know what you're capable of. You're the only liars who've learned to lie and convince yourself of a lie and then think that the lie is true. Thank you very much. We see your face now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91207	Thank you very much. My colleague Kurt, you have re-insulted the representative. In his performance, MP Culjak presented his assessment. You claimed, you claimed that he was not at war, but that he was robbing, which is extremely inappropriate. Why do you enter into such debates and such controversy in which you are offended? We know what war was! Which was war in Slavonia, which was in eastern Croatia where the war began, what were the victims in the Mirkovci, as they were in Borovo Selo. It was a war. That was the dead, that was the wounded. So when was, what was May in Borov Village? It's not, so let's be careful, please. [[You don't understand.]] Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91208	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Defence, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of words here about the war when the war started. I must say that the war began in Croatia on bloody Easter, and in Vukovar on May 2nd when 12 Croatian police officers were massacred. They weren't the only victims. There were before and after the victims, and only for you started a war that had a Croatian heart and whose heart was beating for Croatia. And the others for them began the war when their house was hit, when someone died from their family. Then they came, they said, look, they hit my house or someone got hurt, and now I'm gonna go with you against them. So there were more criteria. Well, here I have to say, Madam Secretary, this exposure to everyone who was. These are all praises and I think I congratulate you on your work, your team, who, who brought your ministry to a high level, thus restoring dignity and honor to Croatian defenders. And I'm going to say a few more words about the rights of Croatian defenders that you've done for this time. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from 2004 and the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from 2002, and the Regulation on the single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Ministry of Family Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Despite the 2001 legal obligation, the creation of a single register of Croatian defenders joined only in March 2004 to complete the extensive work in 2005. The importance of the single register is reflected in the fact that its creation was necessary to assume the realization of the second legal obligation of the Croatian Defence Fund, i.e. the allocation of shares from the national portfolio to all participants of the Homeland War. The unique register consists of a general and special part. The name, last name of the father, date, etc. shall be entered in the general part. In September 2005, a unique register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War presented data for 849 thousand and 407 Croatian defenders. This number was established on the basis of processed data for a total of 454174 persons delivered from the MRLs and data for a total of 60141 persons delivered from the MUP. Therefore, it was found that 24908 persons are located in the base of the MUP and in the base of the MORH. Those defenders who went from the MUP system to the MORH during the war and vice versa. It is worth noting that the existing version of the register is subject to minor changes, and data for individual persons continue to be verified and identified irregularities corrected. The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and the members of their family, following a constitutional session held in March 2004, joined the amendments and additions of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The rules of choice, and the selection of the management society of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. In 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia transferred 7% of HT shares, i.e. 5 million 732 197 shares, and 7% of shares or 700,000 INA shares were transferred in 2005. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia confirmed by the Croatian Parliament in July 2005, part of the 2004 HT dividend was transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, and the rest of the 2004 dividend was transferred in December of the year 114 million kuna. In total, the dividend amounted to 128 million in 2005. Thanks to these activities, the total value of Croatian defenders' funds from the Homeland War was 2 billion and 109 million and some change on 31 December 2005. During 2006, Erste invested in co-operation with MOVS, MORH and MUP worked to correct the observed errors in the register of the Croatian Defence Fund. In total, 501 889 members of the Defence Fund and members of their families were registered in the register from dead and killed defenders. After 97% of the existing register was harmonised Erste invests and depositary bank, the Split Bank approached the calculation of points or shares for each member of the Fund and by referring certificates to the home addresses of the Fund members. A total of 480,000 250 certificates were sent in 2006. Which says it's a big job that some people think it should be over in a year. For 15 thousand 867 defenders and members of their families, the certificate was not sent because of the error in the record of no address, the wrong non-existent war route, non-compliance with JMBG. The ERSTE Invest returned 15 thousand and 45 receipts due to an incorrect address. I'm saying this because of some defenders, because they don't have information to see why they're late for confirmation and why they didn't get it in time. Following instructions given to the members of the ERSTE Invest Fund, 8 thousand 20 notifications of new addresses were received. For all received new addresses of ERSTE Invest and Depositary Bank, they sent notifications of shares to new addresses. Then ERSTE Invest formed a call centre in early April 2006 in which all the members of the Fund could receive all relevant information about the Fund and the Defence Register or on the state of the number of shares as well as ways of solving certain problems that occurred in the process of establishing the Croatian Defence Register. During 2006, a very large part of the work was done on the Croatian Defence Fund project. The Fund was affirmed and became public-recognizable, information was sent on the interests of most defenders, and property was significantly increased, which improved the perception of the Fund itself among defenders, but also in general in the public. Public performances on radio and television as well as contributions to business shows contributed to this, on television that were affirmative to the Fund's project itself. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, HANFA, adopted the beginning of the year and a regulation on the evaluation of the Fund's assets, which was published in "The National Journal". The Regulation defines how all types of assets the Fund can invest in are evaluated. However, it should be pointed out that the adoption of the Regulation did not affect the value of the Fund because the assets contained in the Fund at the time were already evaluated in the manner prescribed by the HANFA Regulation itself. HANFA also defined Article 28 in accordance with the legal powers The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families made a decision on the allocation of the Fund for 2005. The allocation was made in accordance with that decision in 2006 in a way that 1/3 of the Fund's profits remained only to the Fund as a reinvested profit. The second third was paid to the Croatian Defence Foundations and members of their families and the Scholarship Fund 60:40%, all in accordance with the Government Decisions of the Republic of Croatia and the Management Board of the Fund. The third third third of profits are currently made in the Fund itself as a commitment to pay dividends to each member of the Fund. The payment will be made when the final version of the Croatian Defence Register is formed. It is particularly worth noting here that HANFA also made control of ERSTE Invest in the management of the Fund during December 2000. In that control, HANFA examined the company’s business surveillance, the institutional characteristics of the company, the organisational characteristics of the company, accounting and the production of financial reports, etc. The Fund's assets grew from 2 billion 109 million in 2006 to 2 billion 945 million kuna, the amount of assets to 31.12., December, 2006. The net increase in assets of the Fund was 835 million kuna. The increase in assets consisted of a net increase...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91210	...the Fund's assets due to the business of 919 million kuna and the reduction of 2/3 profits. This is all saying that the Fund...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91212	...in the end, the value of the Fund, ultimately the value of the Fund is 3 billion and 400 million kuna. And I think here again, Madam Vice President and Minister. Thank you, and I want you to keep working like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91213	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91214	Mr. Vice President, I would only like to fill in my colleagues' information that the first recording of Croatian defenders who entered the defence of the Republic of Croatia is from the '90s. the year and date 5.8.'90. the year until 8.10.1991. in this period of months I can count exactly, but I don't want to bother, all together it entered the Croatian police and military units 182,000 and 238 Croatian defenders. Or from the total today's number 37.24%. I hope that all those who are offended today in this High House these 182 thousand 238 Croatian police officers and Croatian soldiers will not really remain immune to this kind of calling that they have robbed and walked in houses and stolen. And I hope that this comes from the mouth of a man who was in a clear relationship with a former minister from 2001 to 2003 sharing with them probably certain interesting spheres relating to the appointment of individuals to co-ordinators in Sibenik-Knin County for PTSD. And thus obtaining a material benefit of 80 thousand kuna. And this second one, who is as a trustee, appointed by the man who questioned the defensive staff, who ended up in Serbia in the fall of Vukovar, and then returned to Croatia, I don't know by what connections in the spaghetti. I don't know, Mr. Mlinarich, how you didn't come back in a few days from captivity and come back. Didn't you have a friend there on the other side who would translate you or with some material concessions, or with someone else to be released as soon as possible? And I hope by checking all the data we've been looking for, we get to who signed the defense status. Speaking of registers and having too many defenders already several times I explained that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91216	...that the publication of the register itself should not go. Because today I emphasized here I now searched and found the book that was written...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91218	...in which it is mentioned...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91219	Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91220	...the names that they heard were you and therefore the charges are being written.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91221	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91222	Who, gentlemen, dear, I wouldn't want...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91223	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91224	Dear colleague Jopa, I must say that I have not had protection since the beginning of the war because Croatia is still in my heart. I had a protection that I ended up being commander of the company, and I ended up later in Serbian camps. I passed Nis, Mitrovica and Alexine. And I had a protection that I stayed in camp for 270 days, that I was weighing double, I had 49 pounds, and I have about 78, 79 doesn't matter. I was so, and not just me, and all my colleagues looked so scared, and I don't know what we were doing in Serbia, why we went to Serbia when we never lived there, we had our own country of Croatia that we had just created and some who said the war didn't start, that it started, so we were before gentlemen... The Easter they had, the guards in Boro's village were barricades, my colleague who went to school with me died in Brshavin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They were across the street, and they killed him there, and two of our defenders went, and they went through the road, and they were shot before that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So those who say the war didn't start or that they didn't have Croatia in their heart because they didn't expect Croatia to be. Maybe Croatia is someone's unwanted child. I say it's a tragedy that many people didn't expect, say whatever those HDZs are doing in Vukovar there, I don't know they're getting drunk and. Franji Tudjman that both the Croatian Democratic Community and all those who joined it did not matter any parties that joined the Corps they created Croatia and I must thank our diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91225	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Chuljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91226	Here is my colleague, Mlinarić, in response to this replica, partly responded to the replica I wanted to replicate to him, which was war, which was started on the bloody Easter as he said, and with the death and death of Croatian knights Josip Jović, Frank Visica from Bibinj, 12 monks from Vinkovec and other places that made the unit that went to Borovo village, the dead friends who were in Mirkovci were just a guide and the rest of the Croatian public to realize that the war was approaching and that Croatia would be attacked. That's the part that confuses people. They think the war started the moment the victims fell, but Mr. Djakic said 5.8.'90. Our officers, the directors, went to training centres, trained and then participated in these actions that unfortunately all of us ended and so some of our regular friends lost their lives. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91227	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91228	Thank you, Mr. Culjak. I must point out that Mr. Chuljak did not say that he worked together with the Treasure of Zadar and the Treasure of Zadar had left the police, came and far before the bloody Easter came with his two sons, said the gentlemen war was inevitable and all that... We waited for days and nights behind the fences to come from Borov village, Negoslavci, Trpinje, Bobota, when they would come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They kept talking, and now they're gonna come along. So from the Lipovites people came and sat down, came, said they took all our inhabitants away from us. Some of them killed through the corn. That was before the bloody Easter. What are we talking about? Croatia defended itself in Vukovar, but the whole of Croatia was to be included. I'm saying we had a communist who was in the SDP and said what you drunk HDZs were. After the grenade hit his house or someone got hurt or he got hurt, let's go, let's beat 'em up. Well, gentlemen, I'm asking for a little bit of attention and respect for those people who are. So you know when Stipan Bosnjak when he led 12 officers came in front of Bor's village and the sniper was shot and he still got out, just opened the bus door already fell down, and they only went to get two of our fellow officers who captured their policeman to bring them in. They didn't think, they all knew by bus, five days earlier they knew they were going to bring their colleagues. Unfortunately, then the war began, gentlemen, and let's not fool ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91229	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91230	I replicated my colleagues Mlinarić on the 5th month of '91. that the war in Vukovar began, which is a fact, and that I, in all my discussions, support. But my colleague Mlinarich, neither you nor anyone else, can convince me that we are 15.3.91. We've been sending our boys to JNA for years and we've fought them at the same time. Either someone's crazy here or I'm crazy or our government that did it was crazy. We are 15.3.91. years of sending our boys to JNA and so we couldn't fight our boys at the same time. That's one thing. It's another thing. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Homeland War has lasted since '91. '95. A year. And third thing, I got a message with a name and last name to ask in this House how it is possible that the handbook that came on August 3, '95, ended military term on June 1, '96, and was never on the battlefield could be the Croatian defender. Name and last name Dalibor Jurkovic and telephone number. I'm asking you now, is it possible, because we know that the handcuffs only went as volunteers to the battlefield, and the others who didn't have to, they didn't even want to go. They're all classified as defenders. That's not true and that's not true. So it's nothing black and white, we have a net and mixed, and this thing about the wartime started with Jovic, with a bloody Easter, on the 5th month, with the 7th month... We all know these dates and respect them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I never said it wasn't true. It's just not true that 15.3.91. As we sent our soldiers, our children into the Yugoslav People's Army, that government didn't seem so crazy fighting that same JNA at that time. If that's what I'm doing, I'm taking my hat off.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91231	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91232	Mr. Kurtov, we were pulling our boys out of JNA in the third month, and we didn't send them anymore, and we asked them out, and you know when their mothers asked their children to come back from JNA, and together with their mothers, we protested, and then at the 3rd, 4th, 5th month, we looked for our boys, and we asked them to come on vacation, and then we joined us. So I don't think there's any dilemma that if you were thinking that war was coming, we were sure, you weren't supposed to be sending kids at the 3rd month.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91233	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91234	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister! A fellow Mlinaric tried to bring some facts about the start of the war. But I will also be free as a participant of the Homeland War from the first days and present some facts in favor of what he was saying. We forget in this Croatian Parliament that the balvanies were held in Knin in 17.8.1990. We also forget that the western Slavonia area of the same day came under the balvanies. We forget that in the 9th month of 1990 in the town of Daruvar, she was killed by a diversant group of three of our officers. That two police officers were killed in the Pacrac area doing their duty of honor in traffic. That on the 1st of 3rd of '91, a Chetnik group, along with renegade police officers, took over the city of Pakrac. That there were fierce struggles between our special police force and this Chetnik group. That the town of Pacrac on three sides was surrounded by so-called. The JNA where our sons were. But they brought them here to surround the town of Pacrac to take over the Chetniks. They didn't make it there either. And that's where we beat them. Therefore, they were armed conflicts, but our president was smart enough not to declare war on that basis. The war was declared on the day when armed provocations and the taking over of power and the destruction of the legal authority of the Republic of Croatia could no longer be endured.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91235	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91236	Mr. Representative! I still forgot to tell your folks that they were back in '91 in the 2nd month. In the year in Boro village, the bearded flocks who came from Serbia were already preparing an attack on Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91237	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, after all these replicas, I'll say something. My fellow Mlinaric! It is good that you have repeated everything that has been done for Croatian defenders in this assembly. Today, most of the time, it seems like we're all outvoted when the war started in Croatia? I just want to tell you that my colleague Shirac said it right. It started in the '90s. The year when we all went on vacations, we came back across the logs. There's something else I want to tell you. Yesterday I was present in Clay to mark the 16th anniversary of the attack on the police station in Clay. On June 25th, a sovereign and independent state of Croatia was declared in this assembly. Several hours after that, a 400-member JNA Police Station and rebel Serbs were attacked. 17 guarded officers captured and taken to Knin. One of them died. The first victim in the area. Why am I pointing that out? Because today we are being listened to and watched by Croatian defenders, children of Croatian defenders, parents of Croatian defenders. And you can imagine how these people feel today. They feel and I can think that, we need to be as careful as the president said just because of them here. Because we can't trade dates and the Homeland War. Because they've installed their lives and body parts, I might harshly say, but they're the foundation of everything we have today. And we today instead of praising this fund, instead of praising what we talked about the Croatian defenders, we are trading today with the starting date, and who is the Croatian defender? Are those people from the '90s? Or '91.? All those people who had the courage and who stood first and foremost in defense of this independent and sovereign state. You could see in Clay's parents, mothers and fathers in black yesterday. They're the witnesses. No fellow Mlinarics, but I really appreciate him repeating what was done for the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91239	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mrs. Secretary. I mean, I wanted to replicate the gentleman when he was talking about the beginning of the war. So we forgot it was in May '90. The Yugoslav People's Army agreed to then president of the Communist Party of Croatia who changed the Party of Democratic Change to take weapons from the Croatian people... Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it was a prelude to war. We forgot August 17th, the log. Funny, very funny, yes. And on August 17th, the balvanies were set up that one major part of Croatia could not be passed. And I think it's dates. And one of my humble opinions is that one kind of war is that of '45. It did not stop towards Croatia and individual Croatian citizens.. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91241	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91242	It's a shame, Mr. President, that the debate on the fund always turns into a debate about the Homeland War, and then some kind of emotional and rhetorical war begins among the defenders because everyone has their own memories, their own traumas, their own prides. And it is a pity that Croatian defenders in this House are conflicting and should be jointly prepared to perform as one and as opposed to this fund both to the government and the public. And in this sense, sin is that Chuljak, on one side or Kurt, who in their own way were larger or smaller warriors, Croatian war veterans must in this way pollemize them. I'm going to start this exhibition with a random gesture. Our esteemed President of Parliament has not noticed that counterpart Zlatko Kramaric has raised this plate by asking for the right to his yellow minute. He saw that he raised the black plate and didn't give him his word. The general coercion on the silence of Zlatko Kramarić is an interesting force. So the man who I think stayed in Osijek in 33, 34 years when Osijek was empty, who gave the dimension of a little different war in the Croatian public and the West as a war in which people who sought freedom and personal and civil and urban and national and national and those who questioned the right to every form of freedom can in some way be proud that he did not win the status of Croatian defender. That's not what he stayed for in Osijek. On the other hand, you have Damir Caine who has been part of a group of letters that I practically receive on a daily basis. I heard from a man from Rijeka who testified about his arrival in the Storm on Plitvice, and there he found Damir Caine, where he was preparing a roach for the old solution. He was thinking there with his brother or he was alone, anyway, you can't see from that letter. So Croatian defenders through this Fund must defend their interests because the ideas of the Croatian public about the importance of this Fund are different. First of all, I want to pay my respects to this government that formed the Croatian Defence Fund. It's an idea that's literally 15 years old. I am firsthand familiar with it because Velimir Milaković worked at my election headquarters, which is one of the series of holders of the 1990-1992 idea and it is good that the Croatian Fund, the Croatian Defence Fund, implemented this government. They could've done it before, they didn't. What's more important is that those people who listen to us see what's going on. So in the game you're saying the current market value of this Fund is 3 billion $400 million. That's about half a billion euros. Since there are 500 thousand defenders, that means a thousand Euros of nominal value per head. This means practically that, let's say, Pero Kovacevic, who has probably recognised the entire war with the coefficients attributed to him by Djakić, I probably calculated that he has a total share of around 17 and a half thousand kuna. That's less than his gross salary. So people don't forget that the Croatian Defence Fund wouldn't be the only one, it wouldn't be the only institution that would push the state away from the obligation to take care of the defender in the broadest sense of the word. You have witnessed a fraud in Croatian media against one of the oldest privileges that already appears in the famous speech of Pericles at the grave about the rights of disabled people and warriors to have their children entitled to privileged writings. When this law began to be debated, it was forgotten that it was the right in Croatia only the volunteers of the Homeland War and the disabled, and their children, and they created one fool so that the average man who enrolled in the university had the impression that his enemies were his colleagues who had an accident that their parents were at war. I'm particularly glad the president didn't give Kramarić the word today because today is red fiche day. Today, many and so many years ago in Osijek, the Yugoslav People's Army tank crushed the fiche and symbolically buried Yugoslavia. As for fellow Kurts and these confusing situations, send handbooks to JNA in a war that was schizophrenic. You must know that Kurtov's fellow commander of the aggressor army 14 days after the fall of Vukovar was our current president, Stjepan Mesic. He was commander-in-chief of the aggressor army. He never witnessed a word of it in his book, which is some strange mix between biography and autobiography because he wrote... The journalist Puljiz was written in the front row and the cover reads that he is the author of that book himself, Pugliz. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not a word about Vukovar. There's not a word of war on the other side. That's what was expected of that book. So when it comes to what should be done further, I think the first thing that should be done is that such discussions between defenders in this House of Commons never repeat themselves again. That no one can compare the tragedy of Pera Mlinaric in Serbian concentration camps and the personal act of sacrifice for the country of counterpart Kurtov. Or a colleague of Cully's. Or Eva Banca's colleagues who have fought in their own way in the international community for those rights. As for the mystification of the number, I'll only give you one example. My friend, the grandson of Ivan Meštrovic, named Stjepan Gabriel Meštrovic, left at the time of the Vietnam War at West Point. The stepfather forced him into West Point and by institutional position he still has the status of veterans of the Vietnam War today. Even though West Point left after a year, he couldn't make it there. According to whether a handiwork that was forced into the Croatian military and was struggling to get away with it, he may have been a member of the Serbian ethnic community that is currently in coalition with the HDZ but as far as I can see, they are not involved in the debate on the Croatian Defence Fund, although they may also be seeking recognition status in the perspective, the status of Croatian defenders because they have, in some way, defended the right to their own understanding of Croatia. Croatia as a large Serbia that would be reduced by the famous diagonal around which today the Chetniks in Serbia have gained the status of anti-fascist fighters are heroic. So in that sense I think you should and that I will conclude, the first thing of injustice will always be. A man could have been at war for two days, destroyed 15 tanks. He could have been at war one day and killed 15 old Serbian grandparents and caused the disaster of the Croatian people. It could've been seven years, didn't do anything. He could have let the people who kept him in the war, and there were such deaths, freeze themselves to death, and also have the status of a hero of the Homeland War. It's such a confusing war opportunity, and that's why I'm extremely sorry that the controversy is being waged here in the war, and there's no controversy about the important things. And one of the important things, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you think that a great privilege is not a great privilege to restrict the rights of defenders to trade their stakes. Because it lowers their market value. As it is not good for us to appoint a trust fund management, we have two paradoxical situations. That we have the Board of Directors of the Fund with Snow White and Six, I won't say six prominent defenders, but I don't see anyone from the opposition. It would be good if someone from the opposition were here. And I finally don't feel very comfortable with the Croatian Defence Fund being run by Erste Bank, which has its headquarters on Habsburg Street in Vienna. It was almost a predicate for writing a new drama about all the contradictions of Croatian unfortunate history. In this sense, I hope that in the next debate on the Croatian Defence Fund, it will be debated in economic, stock market, interest categories and not emotionally, and I fully understand this emotional debate because I know that the concepts and memories of each of the people in the war are completely different and that each of them has the right to their own memory and that no one else can compromise that of his or her right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91243	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91244	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Letica where he claimed that there was no need to restrict the availability of shares to Croatian defenders because it is absolutely not true because it is intended to achieve a concrete goal, which is that the Croatian Defence Fund is being filled with other shares in the company that will be transformed. It means that if a man today sold his shares or when he arrived at 4 months 2008 he was no longer a member of the fund and could not exercise his right to the next shares. I therefore believe that you have wrongly concluded at all or that you are wrongly referred to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91245	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91246	Unfortunately, Article 209 was injured. You didn't correct the incorrect assumption because I specifically said that it was a limited right, and that you interpret it so I did let me doctorate economic science and I know a little bit more about stock speculation. Is it more useful to allow a child to learn French at this hour so that he becomes a billionaire in Paris or gets two percent more nominations next year that is a question that cannot be rationally discussed at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91247	Thank you. Well, I don't think the Rules of Procedure in Djakic's opinion has been harmed, and it's hard to discuss it now. Replica esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91248	I'll thank my fellow flightmates immediately. He always does speak in a special way and especially when speaking such a representative is nice to hear and compliments. But here, I'll tell you I'm not mad at the President of the Parliament when he didn't see my replica, but something else. Apparently, and I'm leaving him still in that belief, that he saw the correction of an incorrect quote, not my replica, but what I'm grateful to my fellow Flightman that he mentioned today is red fiche day in Osijek. It's June 27th on then Klein, today's Tropimir Street, what happened. That picture went around the world, and unfortunately, you see, it's our destiny now. This day in Osijek is not marked for the simple reason motives are generally known, because these present ones were not involved in it in any way, and then actually history, there is no history because they are not its participants. And that's our tragedy, that actually the things that went around the world then, CNN took over and somehow threw that new light at aggression and what was happening in Croatia. There's no celebration today, but otherwise they like to drill into the chest and hold this... Stingu. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when it's supposed to be demonstrated like this, then it's a little harder because they can't say anything about it. But I'd like to say the same thing for the sake of the Croatian public because there's only one doubt left because I didn't get the right to speak, for the word. I insist that the defense registry be a public matter, that I, by some unfortunate or fortunate chance, find myself in that case, would be the proudest man in the world because there is indeed no greater pride than to introduce you to a book that says you have defended your country. I, for some reason private, political reasons, did not, although I do feel like a Croatian defender. But I don't see any reason if someone's willing to make public benefits that they're afraid that this book will be revealed. Well, we didn't create a state in an illegal state, and I don't know what that conspiracy is about. All this time conspiracies, then I'm imputed to say that the defenders had... I didn't say that, but I said that it actually comes down to it as if it were a secret society, not the brightest, noblest thing that could happen to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91249	Thank you. That you are not allowed to speak in this House in a replica and probably in a reply to the replica. I wasn't there when Mr. Shakespeare chaired, and let him see it wrong, so now you don't have to mention five times that he's forbidden you to speak. Now, you've had the opportunity to speak in this House, and President Shakespeare certainly has not made it impossible for you to state your opinion. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91250	My position here differs from Mr Kramarić's position on the marking of this vandal, aggressor-crime act. The Croats don't have that type of fixation for a negative history and it's as good as the Dubrovnikers didn't want to remember, they could have kept the debris of the wounded city, so they didn't do it because they're moving forward. The Serbs would make epics, make films, and that one fico would eventually become a thousand pieces. So I have a different mindset and it is an honor for me to have Croatians approach both the past and the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91251	Thank you. Replicated representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Letica said in his presentation, he was talking about mystifications and mystifications when it comes to enrolment in high and university according to the Croatian Defence Act, so I would really refer to the mystification that was being created about it. In fact, it was created through public opinion and information that there was going to be a breakdown of the system both in high school and in colleges, and when you take numbers, it really isn't. So we have that 3068 students were enrolled in high school under that law, which is only 5.77%, and at the colleges 5713 but should be said, there was an impression that they were enrolled without any criteria, that at the time they should only have crossed the score or class threshold that they had the possibility of enrolling. As the Constitutional Court annulled that decision, that part of the law is good that the government has found other opportunities for children of Croatian defenders of missing, imprisoned and all of these and volunteers to be enrolled in both high and high schools, and we should certainly ensure that all other children who are interested are enrolled, especially in colleges because this is our future and our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91253	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91254	Well, my colleague understood well that I am for this privilege, which is practically two and a half millenium and in the election of candidates for new constitutional judges, one of the questions that I will probably ask everyone if they would lift this previous decision that I find against logical and in some way divergent.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91255	Replica, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91256	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. A fellow representative of Letica in his presentation pointed out that we defenders of the Homeland War should not conflict with each other over these discussions. I fully agree with him, and I support him in that regard, but I have to take the next one out. Today, when we discuss here in the Croatian Parliament the report on the work and financial operations of the Croatian Defence Fund, of course, no one can be prohibited from expressing their opinions. And the report was so high-quality, content-quality, a positive business of the Fund. And instead of having a discussion about the promotion of our Fund's activities and activities, we of our individual colleagues have expressed some conflicting opinions on the basis of exactly what led to the formation of this Fund, to the criteria of participation in the Fund, etc. So, I stand at the point that we cannot ban anyone from what they will discuss in this Croatian Assembly. But we other defenders can't impose an opinion, one mind, and some facts that aren't supported by the real state that has passed through the past... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91257	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91258	I didn't want to limit the debate, but I thought it would create a kind of instinct of community interest. So if someone attacks, I don't know Milanka Opačić in some way rude and rude as my colleagues, Zdenka Petricevic, I would expect women to stand on her side, on Milanka Opačić's side. As you would expect here when they are attacked, that is, when a defence fund is being discussed to defend the rights of defenders. Or when it comes to children or disabled people finding interests that are stronger than being captured by party minds. It's hard to do, of course, when it has the mind of the SDP, um, I don't know, HDZ, the mind of DC is just one, so they can't even limit themselves too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91259	In your reply to the replica you mentioned in such an ugly context unobstructed, in this context the distinguished representative Zdenko Babić Petričević. I think that regardless of your opinion, you've hurt a little with it. I'm giving you a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91260	Mr. President, about the replica of my colleague Letica and the statement he made and confirmed in the Croatian Parliament, what I did not say, which I do, because I never concern anyone else's privacy or anyone else's colleague in this House, because I am not interested in anyone's privacy and I have no right to other people's privacy. Therefore, do not read me moral forebears. If we talked about it and put it on the scale of people's moral qualities, then maybe the scale would be on someone else's side.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91261	All right, all right. But where did I hurt that Rules of Procedure and what article? ... And that's why I'm giving you a heads-up because you abused the rules of procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, replica, distinguished representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91262	Thank you very much. So I join my colleague Letica when, at the beginning of the exhibition, he was actually disintegrated by a debate that somehow spread beyond the topic, which refers to the period before the official war in Croatia, so the period since the 1990s. Until '91. When the war started. I'd remind him, he mentioned the red fitch, right, if we were the '90s. years after setting up the balvana formed, and he also participated in, formed the Crisis Headquarters, that is, the Sanity of the Ministry of Health. And just yesterday in Osijek, we marked the 17th anniversary of the Sanitary headquarters of Osijek Hospital. As a result, it is important that the preparations for the war began long ago, and this is certainly where the dream played an important role. And along the way, he would extend his thesis on President Mesic's role in the team by '91. The year and famous book, the autobiographical one, that changed the title three times. It was first called "How I Destroyed Yugoslavia", then after many years it was called "How We Destroyed Yugoslavia", and now several months ago that book bears the title "How They Destroyed Yugoslavia".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91263	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91264	The fourth edition will bear the title "How They brought down Yugoslavia". So, as for Staff of Sanity, my colleague Bacic, I resent you for not inviting me because I initiated that meeting at medical school. And if you don't call me next time, you'll pay for double coffee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91265	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Clem. Replica, Your Honor, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91266	Well, here. My colleague Letica actually told one truth, and I think it's right when he said it wasn't good that when there's a debate on the agenda about something positive happening to defenders, such as the Fund's report, that other debates are being opened, which then leads to some disagreements. There are parliamentary committees, my colleague Kurtov and I are members of the Assembly Committee on War Veterans and such recommendations should, of course, be resolved there. But because of me, I have no right to the truth about the Homeland War, because of the truth about the people who participated in the defense of the homeland and the '90s. and '91. I have no right to remain silent and I have no right to remain silent. I have to protest it, I have to say for the people who lost their lives in that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91267	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91268	You're on the verge of a good idea that such a debate is happening within the board. And I think there should be a colleague, Josipovic, who is studying on this computer by, trying to sue Serbs for genocide, to get war damage, and the income from war damages that we will charge to Serbs and Montenegrins goes to this Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91269	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Bagaric. He's giving up?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91270	If I'm last, my contribution here at 13.30 I quit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91271	Well, thank you. I'm finishing the morning session. Resume at 15.00 hours. It is up to the distinguished representative Šolić. We'll continue with the afternoon session. The word has a distinguished representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91273	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and the members of their families that we are discussing today refers to 2006 and can be immediately found to be very detailed and extensively explained in the report about everything that has been done so far. In December 2004 already, the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund decided on the choice of a management company for the Croatian Defence Fund and on the basis of the decision, Erste Invest d.o.o. Zagreb. In March 2005, a representative account of Croatian defenders was opened at the Central Depositary Agency, and prior to that, the trust account of the Croatian Defence Fund was opened at the Croatian Bank of Split for domestic securities at the Central Depositary Agency. It also opened and established the account of the Croatian Defence Fund in the Depositary Bank, where all cash flows are coming in. When all these conditions were created, open accounts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia made no decision on the transfer of 7% of KT shares on a proposal from the Management Board of the Fund. The transfer of shares was carried out on 12 April 2005 and officially started with the date of the Croatian Defence Fund. In November 2005, 7% of INA shares were transferred to the account of the Croatian Defence Fund. It is important in this report to say that the Croatian Defence Fund received a payment of the HT dividend for 2004. The dividend was paid in 2005, with a total of 128 million 126 thousand 568.95 kuna. On 24 January 2006, the fund received an advance on HT dividend for 2005 worth 56 million 920 thousand 751 kuna. The value of all securities and other assets in the fund's portfolio on 31.12.2006 was 2 billion 945 million 131 thousand 422 kuna which is for sure I would say full hit and adoption of the Law on the Defence Fund because today we also had to hear that the value of the fund is also greater than 3 billion and 400 million kuna. Of course that's given 2005 the increase was more than 39.59%. It is also important to point out that a third of the profits will remain in the fund for reinvestment. The second third will be paid to members of the Croatian Defence Fund, i.e. the defenders and their stakes in the fund, and the third part will be paid to the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their children and Croatian Defence Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families in a ratio of 40% to 60%. The report also stated that on 29 January 2007. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity received and updated the fund register based on which the members of the Fund were relevant for the calculation of the number of shares to recalculate the share and 2.3.2007, i.e. New certificates of ownership of the fund have been sent this year. And my colleagues who discussed it said, "I wouldn't do it again now, so I'm gonna cut it short." Finally, it is important to point out that the Management Board of the Fund and the Croatian Defence Fund works well, that the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund is a good law, that it is well implemented and that I must say that unlike the 2003 law that was not absolute, it was not possible for this law to be brought to life and implemented at all. I am particularly pleased to point out that the audit findings on financial operations are positive, which means that the fund is operating on the well-being and security of all defenders. I fully accept the report of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. It is my duty to finally mention and simply use this time to address some statements from some parliamentary representatives who spoke in their debate and to change our factual state of history, the defence of the history of existence and how it became our Croatia. I don't think any MP is allowed to speak and twist the lies about the Homeland War and when the Homeland War began, who was the aggressor, who was the victim. I think all these MPs should think a little bit about how they're going to get back to their environment where he lived and who was attacked. Not '92. according to one's claims, rather than being attacked long before, immediately after the first parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia, which was when the Yugoslav Army made a decision, but with the blessing of some politicians to confiscate all territorial weapons in the Republic of Croatia, and it was bought with the money of all Croatian citizens. And that weapon was intended to be used and to carry out the aggression against Croatia as well. These are facts that we must not forget, but to pass on to younger generations to know how and how the Croatian State was created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91274	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Almost most of this, the morning debate on this topic, which is now continuing on the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund, was precisely on the subject in essence, not the fund itself, how much of this was the story of when the war in our Croatia started? Yeah, there were a lot more of us this morning. And that's also important to point out, because we're convinced that the defenders now can't look at us or see us, so our care and our grill has gone down. This debate was certainly conducted in such a way that many were defenders of the Croatian defenders, and they could only be defenders. But it seems easier to be a defense attorney than a defense attorney. We all know that. It's sad that it happens, the truth is that it happens after all the wars, but it's sad that it happens after the Homeland War. I would like to make a special note, and it must never be forgotten that until the defenders have considered no rights nor have they set out to defend our country, that privatisation has taken place. That's something I would say on a long deadline traumatized Croatia and we haven't recovered from today. And that is why, and when it comes to the rights of defenders, the laws that we are making, the laws that we are changing to increase their rights, to be very careful, how these rights actually come true first. There are great injustices here today, but maybe there's no point in discussing it now, but that's always something to think about. What our colleague Pancic was saying on behalf of the SDP club, it is an irrefutable fact and the question is, how is it that in peace, and is it true that we have more defenders than there really were? This remains such an eternal dilemma, or question raised primarily by defenders. Not just on paper, but on those who truly defended Croatia. Here we have also heard today the explanation of Ms. Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and her request to express, and in view of this, at the limits of respecting the Law on the right to access information on the one hand and on the protection of public or private data, is this list which also contains a whole series of other data, therefore on each defender from the war route, etc., the public has the right to therefore, does the public have the right to see such a list? No one even doubts that the entire war route and all that matters about the personal matters of the defender himself should be given no insight, but that fact itself because it is honorable to defend the country, because it is a constitutional duty at the end of every citizen's life, and why should it be a secret? But if the inquiry was sent exactly in such a way as to disclose those most personal data other than the naked name and last name, then here with the right many have asked that question. What's the secret? Why? Because every single one of us in the neighborhood knows who the defense attorney was, who he wasn't. And of course the real defense attorney is harassed by the fact that his neighbor or his acquaintance who he knows for a fact that he wasn't a defense attorney has the same right if not greater than he is. And that's what we have to discuss here and we have to discuss. For what? And for this point, so they don't poverty the fund. And we know, so there was even criticism here about the 2003 law, the law that finally establishes or provides a legal framework for the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. So, at the beginning when the fund was formed, based on that 2003 law, that fund was initially destitute. Because the law has made it clear since when it's running, rights have been going down. However, those rights and dividends were only poured in when the fund was established. And the fund could've been founded a little before and a little later. And here I am responsibly saying, and we have been saying this all the time in the SDP, that the Defence Fund is at the start of poverty, not for a very negligible amount. The Minister said it was some kind of money. And the fact is it's money and it's good that it's loaded. But how will it be shared? And in Croatia at all, it was never a problem to share, but it always remains a dilemma about how something is shared. That's exactly what we need to be sensitive to. But if we were to increase here and not be critical and rigorous enough to give someone the status of defender to someone who really is a defender and to eliminate all those who aren't defenders, who aren't here, then I don't know why we would, there wouldn't be some consensus like that. Because exactly all those rights that will be drawn not only out of some declaration of honor, because being a defender is honor and pride, the fact itself, let alone when you draw and out of it a certain right. So here we talk about how something is shared. Did we allow it to be divided into more users than they really belong here? And some days today, they don't have a regulated status as defenders and their torments are huge. I'm asking a question here and... That is, the Croatian government, and we all together with the Government, cannot remain deaf, dumb and blind in addition to the unequivocal fact that we were even proud that even minors, minors and even girls defended Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have no status, no rights. What's up with that? And that's the kind of person it was. And the question is, are they involved in this, too? It is also true that some colleagues pointed out that according to the earlier law, the circle is not a number but a circle of people who could be users or have a share in the Fund is reduced. It's an irrefutable fact. I'm going to point out one example right here of how defense rights are exercised. We have here a list of employees who have come to work for the South Hydropower Plant. So it's a state-owned company that has to strictly respect the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, i.e. Under the same conditions, primates and championships have Croatian defenders. If that is not the case, here is the information, which is usually very interesting how the number of unemployed persons in Croatia is reduced. So since 1.1, since 1.4.2004, so this is the exact data, it's not newspaper until 1.4.2007, but only in that unit has been employed in three years, and this is probably to reduce red tape by 57 people. Only in one unit, and very soon it will come out to see how busy the whole HEP is for new people. And of these you see 57 persons 28 without any competition and are not Croatian defenders. And they had the right to the championship. So here someone took bread from Croatian defenders. That's what we need to talk about here. And I believe and therefore please the Secretary of State check this information or take them into account because there exist because I absolutely believe that Madam Minister, Vice-President of the Government, does not know or can know about this data and that today she also called and a colleague... for some irregularities that occur, specifically in the Ministry itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This does not concern the Ministry, or when it finds out that people are employed in HEP beyond the provision or not respecting the provision of the Law on Croatian Defence, and I repeat where they have primate. Here 27 people from 57 newly admitted in three years are not Croatian defenders. And they were supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91276	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91277	Thank you very much. Here's Mrs. Advocacy, in her debate, said that underage defenders have absolutely no rights. And that, of course, they were in the defense of Croatia. I agree with that. With this second, minors have entered Croatia's defences. It means founding brigades. But it's not true, ma'am, that these underage defenders have no rights today. However, these underage defenders, I think you mean this association that was founded by juvenile defenders in Vukovar and, of course, throughout Croatia have branches, they have all the rights that every defender in Croatia has. They also have all the rights and stem from the law regarding a Croatian military invalid. So they're asking, I'm going to say it now, they're asking that no matter when they get into the brigade, when they step in, of course they're underage, they're volunteering. If they had right at the entrance, at the beginning of that 20% first... Which I don't think we can agree that the campers who were in the camp and underage defenders that we can sort them out for now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]] at this time in the same position. + [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91278	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91279	So here's MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, she said, quote: "It has paralyzed the budget and we haven't recovered from it until today." That's not true at all. The budget isn't paralyzed at all. Although they did have... How could you not? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yes, it is. [[Intruder: No.]] That's exactly what you said. Here's my quote. That's exactly what you said... Well, I'm sorry you said that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The budget was not paralyzed at all and you had the opportunity to see the report Budget for 2006. Now they wouldn't want to hear it. But the fact that it is being realized, that it is transparent, developmental, social with good macroeconomic indicators and that is Agent Anticevic what bothers you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91280	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91281	Well, then probably the colleague didn't say the same thing about taking away bread from Croatian defenders, did she? I think she said bread was taken away. And we know when Croatian defenders began to take away bread. When Mr. Pancic began his famous translation, he took not only their bread but also their prosthetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91282	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91283	Thank you. It's already corrected the quote I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91284	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91285	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Anticevic, it is perfectly understandable that in that number of 500 thousand, there are also 100,000, that 1,000 must be a percentage of those who are under suspicion. It's just like that. Predideal would be if it could be something predideal that fits the real state. As for the increase or reduction of that number, here is the best example of the distinguished colleague Kramaric. I would decree his status as counsel. But seriously. Not to say what I told him why he did it, that status is kind of denied. He deserved that, he deserved that status. The ministry has issued certificates to Croatian defenders on the basis of the defence register and it is easier to check with someone if they have it? He'll run into her eventually if he's guilty or not, but he'll just run into her and... We're gonna look and we're all gonna play with the list and we're gonna look for someone who's not really on that list or what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Besides, if something like that is established, I think the Ministry has the right to withdraw the defense attorney's card.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91286	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91287	Here's a colleague I never mentioned to a colleague of Kramarić's. Here's your opinion, and I wouldn't discuss it, my colleague Kramarić, but I'd concentrate on this part that you saw in my debate. I think it's one of the important questions and it won't just get numb. So among the defenders themselves because they better than those who were not defenders know who were defenders or not. The fact that they are already taken by even one large number in that large number, which you have said as one tolerable number in that Croatian defence corps itself, I do not think it is allowed. It's true that one smaller number and there's no such thing as absolute justice or ideals, it can neither be here nor here, but it's a larger number, only that we can't just absorb. I think even less can be absorbed by defenders because it is a direct delay not only to play that status, but to drag them directly into the pocket of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91288	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91289	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Dear Madam Parliamentarian, I must answer these things you have stated, which are simply not correct. First of all, when it comes to the register of Croatian defenders of the former Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, it was the establishment of a single register of Croatian defenders, and it was therefore not met by former Minister Pancic although it was a legal obligation and I ask why he did not then and why the register had not been made much earlier in the long run. We all know when the war is over. Only this government had the courage to deal with another hot potato and do the job and publicly announce it, and in the past 3 and a half years how long the mandate of this government I assure you that none of this ministry, including the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence, has in the meantime been granted the status of Croatian defenders so that the number of defenders has increased in the last year or the last two, three years absolutely does not stand. As far as underage defenders are concerned, it is not true that they do not have the status of defenders, they have the status of defenders, but it is their specific requirements that comply with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Among other things, one of the requirements of the Association of Juvenile Volunteers is that they receive HRVI status after automation, hence Croatian wartime military disableds. That's one of the demands. The second is that according to automation, they also get volunteer status even though they do not comply with those legal provisions under the applicable law. As regards employment priorities, of course, the ministries, and in particular the vice-president and minister, cannot know about each announced invitation to tender in the state service or in the majority state-owned enterprises, but at each application, the ministry, or vice-president, intervened according to the competent inspections, i.e. the inspectorate, by checking the allegations of what is stated in the application. The fact is that it was justified to report it, but there were also those who were not justified by anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91290	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to begin my presentation with the findings of my dear colleague, Ingrid Antičević, who said that today it is much easier to be a defender than a defender, etc. And in a certain way, she looked at it critically. I would actually commend it and I think it's an excellent finding and I'm assessing it very important, it's very important to be a defense attorney. I, in this form and in this way, actually in this sense support the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is indeed in the right sense a defender of Croatian defenders and it is very important and very important that you, too, are a fellow defender of Croatian defenders and that in this House are probably all of these or for those reasons less or more, but defenders of Croatian defenders. That's our job. Thank you very much. Then, when it comes to me and this one, our report I can show my satisfaction and in fact in a certain way we have one such report that can indeed be of honor to both the government and our representatives. If we have a report that tells us about a fund that started with 2 billion and 150 million kunas, I mean 8 million kunas, and it ended with the present day with about 3 billion and 400 almost 80 million kunas, then it's an appropriate way and a relationship to that fund and a business within that fund and everything that this government and this state are trying to do. This should actually be a model I would say for other funds and other institutions how to act and how to treat property, I don't know money and ultimately end up with the fates of others. So, this is really one suitable material that we can all be satisfied with regardless of some small ones I would say the very small differences that we show here and I think very irrelevant by not getting into this morning, in those I would say really turns out in terms of maybe a lapsus and when it was determined here when the war started, etc. Because it's already a hard thing, and I wouldn't look back on it. What's more, all the clubs here, I listened carefully, all the clubs to one supported this report. So, including Mr. Pancic. So neither he had any objections to this report, he had some suggestions, etc., but he couldn't support this report and until one of the clubs did it. So I think that's also proof that this is the way I'm saying it and that it's actually an appropriate report and actually an example of how it should be done and done. When it comes to the question that's been very politicized this morning, which I don't know who the defense attorney is either, who can be included, I don't know the defenders, etc. So forgive four and a half million people in Croatia, so it would be sad if at least half a million were not defenders. I believe it is true, because eventually those people who were really carrying the gun and were the blade that couldn't bear the greatest burden of course that she couldn't be on her own if she didn't have the support of all those who supported her. At a symbolic level for me, the personal defender is anyone who looked forward to the success of Croatia and the defence of Croatia and anyone who cared for his child, his son, who cared for his husband, I don't even know if he would come back alive, and at the real level of course defined who the defender was and at the end of the day classes were made, and by how much time anyone spent I didn't know in the defense of Croatia and even how much weight he endured. Therefore, a calculation of how much of this will ultimately have some financial assistance as such has been made. When it comes to the future of this fund, I don't doubt the future at all, so the bright future of this fund. He will indeed be at a symbolic level for some people, so for those who won't care if I don't know if I get a few hundred kunas or a thousand kunas because they'll make that profit another way. It won't be that important. However, it will be much more significant because of those people who really need every kuna, and this very fund has been established to take care of the most needed. Of course, there are also everything that comes from the fund itself, i.e. this morning as the Vice-President explained that the assets of the fund are shared, so I don't even know how to finance one fund in terms of the education of Croatian defenders, and the other part refers to the very foundation of Croatian defenders. And most importantly, when it comes to the future of this fund, it is most important that the defenders decide on it primarily. So we see here that we have eight people, seven pardon people including the president of the fund, four of which is the majority of the defenders. So the defenders take responsibility for how they manage the fund, whether I don't know how to sell the shares the next day or whether I don't know how to invest in one way or another. Therefore, there is no need to worry about this future because it is really about the people who are responsible and who, of course, are constantly doing business in the best possible way in the future. Finally, someone mentioned here and some pre-election rhetoric. So my people, the pre-election rhetoric begins on election day. So, the moment someone wins the election, that pre-election rhetoric begins and, of course, it lasts until the next election. This government is real, I think it's really in the right sense of the word and it's in pre-election rhetoric. Why? If we look at the total separation for the defenders I think at a level of about 5 billion and something, 5 billion and 200 I think millions just since this government took over this country's leadership has increased, it's an increase in the amount of two billion kunas of isolation for the defenders. Therefore, this is most said in favour of real focus and real choice of priorities and relations with Croatian defenders. This morning we heard that over a hundred defense cooperatives were founded here, which unfortunately were not until this government came to run the state. So there wasn't even this fund. Now we can do as much as we want and think about whether it can be better, can it be like this, can it be like that, but it wasn't until there was a decision that was made, and that's why I say hello to her, and that's why I'm showing my satisfaction here again because that's how it is. Of course he's looking forward to it, and I don't even know it is practically a thousand apartments right now which in construction, in a certain way, is, at the end, what is planned to be done for the most needed, for those who are actually within that defensive population, the hardest they've been through because of the disease, which is because of the wounding. All these people certainly deserve total respect and I'd say solidarity. All shown here in a certain way solidarity, and even compassion for these people is very important. However, it is to stick to a people’s proverb that says “more is worth no more than a thousand compassions. ” This government is doing exactly that, and I welcome this report as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91292	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91293	So here's the conclusion of what a colleague said and it might actually ask one question, which is what we're going to do here if we take the data seriously to break the rights of the defender, and to get over it, then I think something's wrong. Therefore, we must show real concern here for violations of the rights of defenders. And when I pointed out how many people are employed, not only past the competition, but beyond the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, then I think that we must express not only serious concerns, but see that things get better, not just because they come from the opposition side. If we really care and if we really mean what we're saying. It is a minor problem to install certain rights in a particular law. It is becoming a problem in enforcement, and I am warning here that the rights of Croatian defenders are being violated and that it should be checked how people are being employed. I specifically cited the example in HEP in a particular production area, as HEP calls it. I'm asking a question here what are we all going to do together? What the secretary, the vice president will do. Here's Mr. Secretary of State he's been answering all of us here about certain things, even doubtful but this is ignored. Therefore, how we can be assured that everything will be respected, that it is indeed individual rights under certain laws, and even from the fund itself, that it will be respected. So far, we haven't had any objections to this report, and it's okay that you talked about it, but just here's the story and we're drawing attention to some of the things that are happening today. And it's been a long time. I don't think that's supposed to happen anymore, that it's in no one's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91294	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, it is known that many of us still live in mentality, with the mentality of past times when we leave if someone is not a member of our party from the time you were not a member of a particular party, you didn't have a passage here and there and of course you have these clues today. Unfortunately, where those who I would say heritage rule, that mentality is even more pronounced and it is for all of us to actually correct these deviations and do better. However, this was not at all today, not today, but at this time was not the subject of the talks, and in particular this does not apply to the Croatian Defence Fund, which really has nothing to do with it. There they're all the same and they're all the same and they're actually deciding for themselves that I don't know about, at all, the future of the fund and my own money in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91296	Thank you. Five minutes of debate on behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91297	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So my motive to answer for these five minutes is not usual, but I did not get an answer to the specific questions asked in the debate on behalf of the club. Of course, I am saddened by today’s debate, a part of today’s debate especially of those colleagues who, from whose discussion could be read, were not very well-intentioned, but were looking for black and where it was not. There was talk of everything and everything, so here's a colleague of Kramarić's about red fictitious and mentioned. Coli Kramarić, I will say this only because of the phonogram, my colleague Kramarić was in charge of the city for 15 years and he could have wanted to mark the red fitch and the day as a memorial. Of course, he didn't do it, but today he honors my President, Mr. Djapic, today's mayor. And the reason is very simple, there are obstacles in Osijek, as well as some other cities that that day should be mentioned. Well, just enough to let you know how everything and everything was going on here, and pretty little about the Fund itself. And I asked a specific question. Two members of the Fund's Management Board, I am sorry that there is not a single member of the Fund's Management Board here right now, and there is still a item on the agenda, Mr Vice-President, the agenda item is the Report of the Management Board of the Fund. I'm sorry my state secretary's colleague is able to answer that question when I didn't get him in the morning debate. As announced here by the Ministry of Finance, I see I have no one to ask, so I hope I won't be forced to ask a parliamentary question specifically because I couldn't get it in the debate. Two members of the Defence Fund Management Board shall be members of the INA and HT Supervisory Committees. I'm starting to really wonder if it's allowed on this pay phone in this building to even mention it, or if it's taboo topic, INA, MOL and HT. The assets of the Fund consist of shares of INA and HT, assets of the Fund. And from the Management Board of the Fund, two members should be there. I asked if they were there, whether they were working, doing their duty, receiving compensation to report to the Fund's Management Board, on how they protect the interests of the Fund in INA and HT. The logical thing is that this is the most important, most direct question, we are talking about the Fund and its value, and the report is not mentioned, and that is why I want to be answered directly. Because if they don't work there and they don't protect their interests, then what are we talking about? About the future of the Fund? I am also convinced that he is optimistic about the future of the Fund because the very fact that, by law, the minister at the head of the Management Board is for me, that's what I said when we passed the law the greatest guarantee that what happened to some other funds would not happen. However, the representatives of the defenders to whom everyone here is invited on the Fund's Management Board, four of them, are defenders, but they were not elected by defenders who took part in the Fund. And that is why I have a proposal to organise, and this should be done by the Fund Management Board, next spring of the election of Croatian defenders who are participants in the Fund, elections for 4 representatives to decide on their behalf. They are undeniable defenders, both Lovric and Boyk and Posilovic and Mercep, but we were not elected defenders but were chosen in some other way, chosen by so-called. The coordination, and now we see it divided into two, one smaller, one bigger. As for the participants of Croatian defenders, these 400 new thousands have no legitimacy, and they would have to have it in order to represent the interests of those who are the owners of the Fund's stake. And it is no problem to organise elections, it is known how many defenders are on the list, there is a Registrar, it is known how many points there are and nothing simpler than in the spirit of democracy to organise elections for representatives of Croatian defenders, participants in the Fund in the Management Board of the Fund. For those four who decide, to whom we are all calling and who should be a guarantee of the future of the Fund and representing the interests of Croatian defenders in the Management Board of the Fund. I'm asking the secretary of state if it's possible to get an answer with Mercep, which is with the boy and their position in INA and HT. Or it's a taboo topic so the government can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91298	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91299	We're going to the vote. First. Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2006. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2006 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Cheers. I'm asking for a result. With 95 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91300	We're moving on to the next point. - Annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) for 2006 – Proposer HBOR In accordance with Article 22. The law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, provided the above report. You received the report by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and by the Bora for Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Representative, President of the HBOR Administration. Here you go, Antun Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91301	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to point out that this Annual Financial Reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006 were confirmed by an independent Deloite auditor and found that these financial reports realistically and objectively show the financial position of HBOR on 31.12.2006 as well as the results of business, cash flows and other indicators in accordance with international financial standards. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to have the presentation of these indicators on the screen. So HBOR has a rating, i.e. a credit rating from Moody's A1, of Standard & Poors 3B and the basic financial indicator in 2006 were that we had a total asset of 14 billion and 930 million kuna, total income of 803 million, total expenditures of 623 million and profits of 180 million. If we can do so, we can compare these data to the total banking sector, or other banks that are different, because the business banks compared to HBOR, but therefore according to the total activity, HBOR was 7th place in 2006. By profit also at 7th place, the capital of 5 billion and 300 million was in third place, and at the capital ratio of HBOR was first among all banks in the Republic of Croatia. The new programmes adopted in 2006 were therefore included in the programme of research financing, the programme of lending of pigmeat production, the financing of refurbishment and modernisation of the fishing fleet and the programme of crediting the preparation of renewable energy projects. A new HBOR Act has been adopted, and I am taking the opportunity to thank all respected MPs and MPs for their support because the adoption of the new HBOR Act confirmed their successful performance, but new demanding tasks have also been put in place, which I hope will succeed. Then last year we also coordinated lending programmes and special export insurance operations with the legal property of the European Union and in the framework of our approach programme to end-users, special craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs we opened a regional office for the coast and Gorski Kotar in Rijeka. Just a quick word about the new programs. So the programme of funding for the inventions has been established, believing that there is no significant increase in the progress of the Croatian economy, and in particular the increase in exports unless a number of new Croatian products are created or we will not enter new technical achievements and improve existing products. In the context of this credit, i.e. the search incentive programme, we have the possibility of both lending and investment in core capital. So it's the only program where we go and risk to the end and invest in core capital. As part of the programme of lending of pigmeat production, therefore, the objective is to credit the construction and equipment of new farms or the restoration of existing farms. Within the framework of the recovery and modernisation programme of the fishing fleet, therefore by quality financing in which, in addition to HABOR credit funds, up to 30% of the total investment is involved, the introduction of new technologies by building larger and more modern fishers enable our fishermen not only to fish in the internal, but also in the external fishing sea, so also in the international seas, not only the Adriatic, but also the Mediterranean, Mediterranean. As regards the programme of crediting the preparation of renewable energy projects, we want to encourage the environment for investment in renewable energy projects, and this programme has already revived and started work. In 2006, therefore, we had 23 credit programmes intended to support exports of small and medium-sized enterprises, a large economy and infrastructure, especially the municipal infrastructure, in which it is possible to obtain loans ranging from 6% to 2% at annual level. So, interest from 6% to 2% on the annual level. If we're looking at credit activity, I'm just going to brief a few details of our total credit activity since the '92 draft. by the end of 2006, so over 15 years of business, we have credited about 23 thousand projects totalling about 30 billion kuna, and if we add to this guarantee and mandate activity, we have all participated in some 34 thousand projects with 54 billion kuna. I must point out that if we look at the last data we have on May 31st, 2007, it's already 57 billion kuna. If we look at only 2006, then the reporting year has been granted a loan of about 3 billion and 700 million kuna in total. The total activity was at the level of 6 billion and 400 million kuna. I must stress, therefore, that the overall activities of HABOR in 2006 was about 12% of our total activity over all 15 years, so we are significantly increasing our activity as we move forward. And you can see two significant indicators here on the screen. So a significant increase in export credit from 39% to 55% in 2006 and also 5% in loans for small and medium-sized enterprises compared to the average of these 15 years. Here on this next page we have a demonstration of what we had to do in previous reports, there have been questions and objections from the distinguished MPs that we do not have a view by county. So here we put the share of HABOR's loans in each county's gross social product in 2006. So if we take it to be an average of 2 somewhere then we see that above average loans were granted in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Istria, Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek-Baranja, Zadar, Brod-Posavia, Ličko-Senjska, Koprivnica-Cryzevac, Sisak-Moslavina and Krapina-Zagorska County. So, with our primary task to encourage the Croatian economy, it is our second basic task to worry about the more uniform development of all Croatian areas and I think we can agree that this particular county that I have listed is the one that needs to be better and more developed, so the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County is a large majority of over two-thirds of the total Croatian economy is practically significantly below average. If we are looking at support for Croatian exporters, then I must stress that at this point we have all the products and services that export banks and export-credit agencies provide to their customers in the Member States of the European Union. So we follow and support Croatian exporters at all stages of exports, from public competition, the conclusion of an export contract, the very export of goods and services and payments. During 2006, we signed three more agreements with exporting banks to the export-credit agencies of Norway, the Czech Republic, Korea. So, in the context of export support, we have so far approved 11 billion and 700 million kuna loans, over the last year 2 billion and 100 million. We have also issued a series of indicative offers for international, i.e. Croatian exporters' appearances in international public competitions, and I can say that this year since we've been following exporters, because the good part of these indicative offers we made for international public competitions has succeeded and Croatian companies have received jobs in these markets, so Ukraine, Russia, Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. Through export insurance last year, we approved a new 661 credit limit. This is an increase of 44% compared to the previous year in 2005, and in the overall secured traffic was a billion and 520 million 54% more than in the previous year. During the year, 14 compensations amounting to about 4 and a half million kuna were paid. We point that out as credibility. So, we don't think that's bad because there are sometimes problems with payment in all markets. We want to highlight the compensation payments to say that our insurance policies are not only a dead letter on paper, but it is essential, therefore, when there is a problem with the payment to the Croatian exporter, to determine that it is not a fraud. As soon as we see it's not a fraud, we pay up to 80 or 90 percent of how export business is secured. And then we fight to charge our final customer of Croatian products as much as we can. A total of 7% of Croatian exports were covered through HBOR's lending and export insurance programmes in 2006, which is particularly important if we look back from previous years. That's what you can see from this insurance diagram. In support of Croatian exporters we also issue bank guarantees and they are approved in total of about a billion and 40 million in 2006. Now, if we look at the financial business, so basic indicators, the net balance sheet amount at the end of 2006 was almost 15 billion kuna and its growth was about 9% compared to the previous year. Gross credit growth was 10% and was at the end of 2006. 15 billion and about 800 million kuna. The increase in total liabilities was 9%, where we had a new debt of 220m euros, 150m euros of bond issued and 70m of synthetic credit. So the profit is as I've already highlighted 180 million kuna. We are not a winning or profit-oriented bank, but we are trying and so far we have always managed to settle inflation, so, to keep the real value of our trusted capital. As you can see in the active 94% view, HBOR loans and loans to banks of about 7 billion and 900 million kuna and loans to other users are therefore directly approved loans of around 6 billion and 200 million kuna. We can move on. Of the total liabilities, 36% refers to our total capital and 53% are in the amount of liabilities per loan and issued long-term securities, so the bonds are 7 billion and about 900 million kuna. And the total capital at the end of 2006 was around 5 billion and 300 million kuna. We can move on. Looking at the profit and loss of interest revenue was 770 million, interest expenditure 323, net income of 22 million and it increased by 26% compared to the previous year. So the total revenue was 803 million, total expenditure 623 and profit 180 million. So in 2007, we continue very briefly to strengthen Croatia's export opportunities and implement a policy of equal development of all parts of Croatia, financing small and medium entrepreneurship micro-credit and a new credit programme with a certain debt, then implementing projects related to the protection of the environment and energy therefore, energy efficiency, financing of infrastructure and more efficient use of pre-accession and hopefully almost structural funds of the European Union. So by May 2007, HABOR became a shareholder of the European Investment Fund as the first legal person. So we bought five shares... We have joined the global compact, the UN's Global Agreement on Responsible Business, and we have become a beneficiary of loans and donations from the Government of the Republic of Germany with the purpose of financing projects to foster energy efficiency of renewable energy sources, another UBAF cooperation agreement has been signed, therefore, a French bank operating in the Arab world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, a few days ago, we signed a new agreement with the Japanese export bank. And we've started preparing for the implementation of a specific debt lending programme. It is a programme intended for successful small entrepreneurs who do not have enough real estate to make a deposit for the insurance of loans. And then we take, therefore, the possibility within this programme, starts up to 8 years, until the user or entrepreneur pays off his commitment to the business bank. Here, in the end, just one brief summary of this 15-year-old business. We're in 15 years from the Bank of Reconstruction as we were founded in '92. year, we really became a partner to Croatian entrepreneurs and we grew up to be a developmental and export bank with an international reputation. So we've welcomed the fifteenth year of business with 15 billion kunas active. That's a 45-fold increase compared to the first one in '92. A year. So over the past period, the bank has granted 54 billion kuna and we have encouraged farmers, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to large economic operators. The provision of the new law not only increases the significant capital of the HBOR but gives a more quality legal framework for the bank's future work and gives it the possibility to boost Croatia's economy and to prepare the economy more quality to join the European Union. Here, this was finally our sign of the 15th anniversary of the bank. The message of this sign is that there is practically no place, no island or corner of Croatia where there is not at least some project that HBOR encouraged and supported. Here, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91302	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. For economy, development and reconstruction? President-in-Office Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91303	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the bank, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly at the 60th session held on 13 June 2007 discussed the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006, which was in accordance with the provisions of Article 11(1) of the Croatian Parliament. The law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was submitted by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development by the Act of 28 May 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the above reports as a parent working body. In her opening presentation, she noted that on 12 June 2007, the 15th anniversary of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was marked. HBOR has 14 billion and 927 million kuna as a total of 9% on 31 December 2006. According to this balance sheet, HABOR is in partnership with the business banks of the 7th Bank in the Republic of Croatia. In the period from 1992 to 2006, a total loan of 30 billion, 11 million 177 thousand kuna and a guarantee of 17 billion 176 million 928 thousand kuna was granted, with 95% of that guarantee granted in shipbuilding. Export insurance and other mandated jobs were granted in the amount of 7 billion 47 million 479 thousand kuna so that 54 billion 335 million 854 thousand kuna were granted in that period. Of the above, 39% were approved for exports, 36% for the economy, 11% for infrastructure, 12% for small and medium enterprises and 2% for housing. Following the opening statement, representatives from the Committee's congratulations on the 15th anniversary of the draft HBOR, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the following decision: annual financial reports by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006 are confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91304	Thank you. There is a power surge in Zagreb, and soon it will be, it will be resolved quickly By the State's Attorney's Office, yes. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The Tourism Committee. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club respected representative Mato Churchvenac. He's gone. The club loses its word. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91305	We'll do this real quick, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other institutions, distinguished gentlemen representatives. This HBOR was founded in 1992. HBOR is a copy of some such German banks and we can say more or less that it justifies its business. The main directions of activity here are to give on page 5. So in 1992 they were providing funds for reconstruction. In 1993, it was strengthening, lending to rebuild large infrastructure, economy, apartments and commercial buildings, and so on in the war-torn area. In 1994, the lending of refurbishment of businesses and agricultural infrastructures continues. Then some tycoons are created. In 1995 we see the bank already starts to deal with exports, development of small and medium-sized private entrepreneurship. In 1996 they also enter the tourist sector. So it's slowly that quiet year. It's going into shipbuilding financing. In 1997 in local self-government, preparation of the tourist season and so on and so on. In one word today, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is becoming a serious bank. From 1992 to 1996 when it comes to loans, guarantees,... In their name and account, they issued 54.3 billion kunas of various loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's about 7 billion euros from 1992 to today. What's even more important, what's the most loaning right now these past years is de facto going to finance exports. Even 39% on these plates. For the economy, 36%, for the infrastructure, 11%. And what's he saying? That one of the biggest Croatian tragedies is the modern sale of the Croatian banking sector. In fact, the failed banks clearly needed to be privatized, but not remedied at all. Here is a reminder that leading Croatian banks have been sold for 4 billion 935 million kuna, and according to DAB data, 11.5 billion kuna has been spent in their recovery. Some speak and mention billions and billions of dollars. The question is, how credible are these data now? Some come up to EUR 13 billion, but it is probably an exaggeration because, for example, the 1995 budget was with these pension health funds of the circus about 30 billion kuna, so I doubt that such money could be invested in the recovery of the banking system, which by the year is de facto only in one year will get as much as it has invested around 2000 funds to take over these 8 leading Croatian banks. That's the point. What's even worse is that maybe those banks will push us the next day I dare say debt slavery. Croatia's external debt today is EUR 29 billion. We'll talk about it later. In 5 years, it will be somewhere between EUR 40 billion and EUR 45 billion. But what's far worse or equally bad is that over the next five years, we're going to have to pay around EUR 30 billion to lend to our creditors. Now the question is, are we gonna take it? Probably, but here we come to HBOR. There is no higher priority than the clear promotion of the economy and within the economy of those sectors dealing with exports. On 31.12.2006, there were 2.9 billion kuna loans for exports to use. During 2006, we read under these tables 175 loans amounting to one billion 390 million kuna and that is already a respectable amount. That's about six and a half million kuna per loan. It's really like a country to export or what I know to die. Croatia imports about $20.5 billion, exports about $10.5 billion. The deficit is somewhere around $10 billion if not bigger, and the question is, how much is it going to be in five years and how much is it going to be? A little earlier in the last rows, we had a controversy as to why Istria may have received a little more funding from HBOR than the institutions in that area in which the citizens of the Istrian peninsula are likely to participate significantly more on average than the rest of the country, because Istria has incomparably more exports than any other region in the Republic of Croatia. Exports to Croatia are about two and a half thousand dollars per capita. So ten billion dollars per four and a half million inhabitants. There is no tourism in Istria about five and a half thousand dollars and it is not as someone thinks Istria alone and the only tourist destination regardless of what profits in Istria is, the tourist sector is seven times larger than the profits in all the remaining Croatian tourism, but in the first place when we talk about Istria is a classic industry that participates in total income with some 33 to 34%. Second place is shop 29%, third place is tourism with 10%, fourth place is construction and for the first time it will happen that construction is likely to exceed the revenues of tourism in its total. But it doesn't matter now, but it is good that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is present in that area, because indirectly, the whole country is benefiting from it. And finally, this is about loans for somewhat more favourable conditions that the borrowers understandably have to repay. It is also good that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has become involved in these banking guarantees. This is extremely important again for exporters, and as far as financial operations are concerned, it might be interesting to watch the institution's business until 2000 when it was certainly not as neat as after that period. It might also be interesting to see who was receiving these loans at the time and how much later these loans were protested, even during a recent discussion of the budget calculation for the first six months of this year, if I am not mistaken last Friday. As far as the audit report is concerned, it is positive and it is clear that we have no reason to doubt it and so understandably that we accept the annual and financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006 in the belief that it will be equally present in all the areas of the Republic of Croatia and that, of course, its activities will go precisely to finance these export activities of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91306	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91307	Dear Mr. President, the president of the bank's administration, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development has continued for many years to credit the Croatian economy development programme by encouraging exports, development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as well as financing infrastructure. In the last 15 years, she has supported a circulatory of 35,000 different projects, amounting to a circus of 54 billion kuna. For the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it can be said that it is almost the only bank that does not lend consumption and which makes it significantly different from the rest of the banking sector in the country. It is known that Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development is mainly placing its resources through business banks. However, credits are collected significantly for entrepreneurs, and in addition, the procedure for granting credit is significantly extended to the detriment of normal entrepreneurs. Due to the lack of the economic strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the economy is developing exclusively thanks to its toughness, and the potential of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been partially exploited. We believe that the synergy of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the HAMAG, especially in the guarantee potential, gives one new possibility and new potential in the development of the economy. However, without a clearly developed economic development strategy in the Republic of Croatia, this potential is untapped, and it is clear to all of us in the economy that, with HBOR, Croatia needs another strong state bank. All the preconditions for this are made by the Croatian Post Bank, however, there is simply no decision to move in that direction. By reading the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006. In particular, points 12, 13 and 14 of the financial report are interesting. In any case, something the HBOR management could not influence, but should be mentioned. Point 12 speaks of assets held to maturity, which in 2005 was 110 million kuna, in 2006. 76 million kuna, which refers to the bonds of the Republic of Croatia in the HBOR portfolio, and shows how long the liabilities resulting from the resolution of banks after the bank crisis in the 1990s were not held, and at least the Croatian National Bank which was in charge of prudential supervision of the business. Just a reminder. On 31 December 2005, in exchange for a claim for the collapse of Dubrovacka Banka, this amounted to 15 thousand euros and in 2006. Ten thousand and 247 euros. Point 13. talks about the property available for sale, which in 2005 was 235 million kuna, I speak in round figures, round millions and 2006. 225 million kuna. This point provides a clear explanation of why the assets are available for sale and what is the reason for this. Point 14. Investment in extended societies. It is particularly interesting because HBOR claims are due to the inability to charge transferred to the company's core capital of €35.7 million in 2005 and €28.25 million in 2006. It may be noted or observed that the HBOR has not been implemented in the court register for certain companies or the court register has not updated its data. There is talk of participation in the core capital of certain companies. Of those companies only the shares of HBOR were recorded in the court register all in three companies that I do not mention them in particular now, are mentioned in the report and the question is why there was such a high write-off of claims amounting to nearly 64 million kuna if it is known that placements are normally released through business banks which are at the time carrying the risk of placements, not HBOR. It is then noted from the business of those companies that these are manufacturing companies from war-torn areas other than one real estate company which was certainly not necessary for unpaid claims to be converted into shares in a commercial company and there is no record of that in a commercial court. This is about the Commercial Court in Split. Otherwise, the supervisory boards of these companies should be representatives of the HBOR because it is a very valuable asset, but other than the representatives of one company, it is not clear whether another representative of the HBOR is in the supervisory boards of those companies. From everything comes the suspicions that these placements were politically motivated as well as their write-offs are more so that they are all companies with very dubious credit and insolvency. Finally, the financial report shows that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has significantly increased its positive role in financing core entities in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91308	Thank you. HDZ Club, the respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91309	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, president of the HBOR administration, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the HBOR for the past year, not 15 years. Although we congratulate HABOR for 15 years and in those 15 years we could already say in the introduction that it can be divided into two stages. In the first phase, which was the point of restoration, and now follows this second phase in which the point of development, exports and everything else means changing the structures and changes and goals that HBOR achieves. This report has already been quantified by the president of the administration through the data, so I will not repeat it, there is no need, but to point out once again the objectives and reasons for which the HDZ Club supports this report, and this was the reason that the Finance Committee also unanimously accepts this report. Here, through this changed structure as far as possible, the annual HBOR sets its objectives in line with the government's macroeconomic objectives for each year, both in the previous year and in line with these updated objectives in the previous year, we can say in total that the HBOR has performed its function. The basic function or tasks of this time in the past year and in this period is therefore a fundamental function is development, and this means promoting the economy in all segments of the large, small, medium, craftsmanship and all those parts that make up the economy together. The change is also the goal of this year that the promotion of agricultural production is complemented. In addition, there has been a change in the objectives of the promotion of exports, i.e. the insurance of exports and the risks associated with such transactions in... The same way through the structure can be seen that through exports it is particularly encouraged, and in the guarantee sector, especially the shipbuilding, and given its importance and the extent it has, the exports of agricultural products in the part in which production is also encouraged in those structures. [[You don't understand.]] Similarly, the HBOR carried out that internal task, or internal, which means evenly developing the state through this data that has been presented before the counties, and according to its participation in the gross social product in these regions. It is seen that this function of Croatia's fundamental even and regional development has also been carried out in this year. It is also continued with the design and implementation of infrastructure projects which can also be seen as an element of equal, regional development of the state, as it is closely monitored through these projects. Through other activities, we see that it has been completed, other jobs have been completed to help exporters, and here I am primarily thinking about this part of the conclusion of new business arrangements that the HBOR is leading with foreign banks and part of it can be said to explore the market for exporters and to monitor all other activities that are then followed by insurance, payment and all other things in such exporters. With bank guarantees, I have already said, guarantees that she has performed her post. Now a brief correlation between that introduction and this can be asked a question, a quiet remark from some banking circles that the HBOR gradually takes over and moves into the system and into the function of the bank. I wish that he could achieve it, especially in these times before we enter the European Union because that would have been complemented and achieved by those other development goals, and not just the profits of banks, as is the case in most cases in this second sector now which, the banking sector. Therefore, the HBOR has achieved its function and justification for its existence, each year proving it. This year it's coming true. In the financial outcome, I would just like to point out that we also support and accept this financial result. And that slightly reduced profit they showed this year is clearly indicated why it was achieved, because part of which was transferred to the reservation, and earlier we accepted the task of obtaining, subsidized and part of the interest. Therefore, in every sense, the HBOR has satisfied and brought its policy into line with the country's macroeconomic policy over the past year, thus fulfilling all the tasks it was due to carry out in the past year. Once again, the HDZ club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91310	Thank you. An individual debate. Dear Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91311	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development delivered the 2006 Report. I fully support this report for that period. I also congratulate the 15th anniversary of the work of the Croatian Bank for renovation and development. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was founded on June 12th 1992 during the biggest attack on the Republic of Croatia. It is designed to help maintain existing production and promote even economic development in line with the interests and opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has succeeded in this task put before it at the moment of its establishment. During its establishment, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been developing to help fund all those who needed their help in rebuilding and developing the economy, rebuilding infrastructure, developing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, protecting the environment and now the latest financing of exports of goods and services. As this is the last interest of society as a whole, it is necessary to continue to be a special task of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The report mentions the implementation of new programmes and this is the Programme for the financing of inventions, the programme for crediting the development of pigmeat production, the model for refurbishment and modernisation of the fishing fleet and the programme for crediting the preparation of projects of renewable energy sources. I particularly welcome this last one because investment in all forms of energy sources guarantees a future even and smooth development of overall development in the country. According to the report, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development successfully co-operates with foreign banks, the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and has successful cooperation with leading foreign export banks and export credit agencies. It is particularly important to note that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is actively working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in the field of bilateral and multilateral economic cooperation of the Republic of Croatia. The workers of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development are also involved in the work of working groups to prepare the chapters of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. According to the 2006 Report, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has continued to realise its strategic objectives, which are contained in promoting economic and social development. The credit and guarantee activity in 2006 focused on lending for reconstruction and development programmes, economic activities of 964 million kuna. The financing of exports with 2 billion 52 million, a programme of reconstruction and development of infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia of 70 million 273 thousand, a programme of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of 623 thousand 359 kuna. The HBOR also granted guarantees for a total amount of €38 million over that period and for the mandated jobs it granted a billion €617 million. According to the above, it is apparent that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development continued to credit programmes aimed at restoring and developing the Croatian economy, promoting exports, developing small and medium-sized enterprises and financing infrastructure. The 2006 Business Audit was renewed by an audit company that positively assessed the financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It also concluded that the above reports were shown objectively and the results of the business and cash flows were in line with international standards of financial reports. I believe that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the coming period should focus on the education of its clients and business partners other than all the above mentioned activities in the work cycle. I believe that this is possible given the authority of the house and the possibility to provide quality external experts, means their associates. Finally, I think it is nice to hear that there are such institutions in the Republic of Croatia whose work serves as an example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91312	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Honorable representative Vladimir Plesha. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91313	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the congratulations for 15 years of successful work by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development I would like to say that the Annual Financial Report for 2006 is made quality and together with the independent auditor's report gives all the necessary information about the activities of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development carried out its tasks in 2006 in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the financial report was drawn up in accordance with international reporting standards. It should be pointed out that the Bank also adopted all new amended standards and interpretations by the International Accounting Standards Committee and the International Financial Reporting Committee which are relevant for their business and are in force for accounting periods which began on 1 January 2006. The adoption of new amended standards and interpretations has led to a change in the bank's accounting policies in the areas and this investment... the value through the profit and loss account and as well as the area of the financial guarantee contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, it is an independent auditor's opinion that the reports show objectively in all the material meanings of the bank's financial position on 31.12.2006, as well as business results and cash during 2006. What would particularly point out and commend the opening of the HBOR area offices in all major cities in Croatia, making it easier and faster to access information on HBOR credit programmes and providing advisory assistance to entrepreneurs throughout the Republic of Croatia. I also find it extremely important to establish full cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on the training of workers of the county chambers to provide information and advice on HBOR programmes. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was actively involved in the Croatian export offensive of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Government in the part relating to the lending and issuing of bank guarantees, insurance of exports. And therefore, HBOR invested in export financing of 2 billion and 52 million kuna in 2006. For export insurance of a billion and 524 million kuna, or more for 532 million kuna compared to 2005. And the structure of HBOR's credit activity shows this because in the structure exports are represented by 55%, economy 26%, infrastructure 2%, small and medium enterprises 17%. I would also like to praise that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is following the needs of Croatian citizens of entrepreneurs, so here they are, we have new programmes and this is the financing of inventions where the aim is to promote the competitiveness of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs through the financing of business plans. Then we have the lending and development of pork production, the financing of the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet, the programme of crediting the preparation of renewable energy projects. And what I would also point out and that is, I am glad that the HBOR has also completed preparations for inclusion in the operational programme for the development of vegetables of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose monitoring is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. The financial resources therefore provide HBOR for the lending of projects and additional support in the form of insurance to credit users Croatian Small Economy Agency. The operational programme will encourage technological development, modernisation of production, help increase production per unit... independent and continuous production of vegetables for the Croatian market and exports with special emphasis on the production of vegetables in protected areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will certainly reflect the increase in employment and the exploitation of high potentials in agriculture, which I am particularly pleased with. This applies, therefore, likely to be a great potential for exploitation in Slavonia and Baranja from where it comes from. Based on all of this, the continuation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the realisation of all strategic objectives of economic and social development, I propose the adoption of the annual report of the HBOR for 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91314	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91315	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. HBOR! Here, allow me a few sentences on this report and a little bit to supplement this debate. I support this report, but I think that the work of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development itself should have been more focused precisely on the strategic objective or strategic objectives that the Croatian Bank itself has set for reconstruction and development. It states in these materials what the strategic objectives of the HBOR are, that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, within its powers and competences, promotes systematic and sustainable and even economic and social development in accordance with the general strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this potential of HBOR in this regard was underused and that the HBOR had to take care of it, or that in the future it had to take more care to take care of the sustainable and even economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is not and cannot be the main objective of either the HBOR itself, that primarily that role must be played by the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately we don't have the Regional Development Act until today, do we? So it's the development of our regions we could say that it's not planical, it's versed. Often in some regions we invest money in some projects that the region does not need, and some projects that would be very much projects... will therefore not be realised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the beginning of this year he was placed on our public material by the World Bank. It does not say anywhere that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is familiar with either that or that it may have participated in its creation. It is therefore about the discussion of poverty in the Republic of Croatia and its reduction strategy from 2007 to 2017, and this material was made by the World Bank, issued on 14 February 2007 under the auspices of the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic with the cooperation of the Government institutions, etc. So, for our public as it has been pointed out, an important assessment of the World Bank is that poverty in Croatia is at least among all the countries of clients and organisations in Europe and Central Asia, but there are still major problems, and one of the most pronounced problems is precisely unbalanced regional development, so in these materials, for example. notes that the eastern and central parts of Croatia are the most underdeveloped region of the state with a poverty rate higher than 20% in central Croatia and about 17% in eastern Croatia. These regional differences will need to be addressed by the National Regional Development Strategy, which unfortunately Croatia does not yet have through the programmes and projects designed in an appropriate way to benefit from local comparative advantages and make the best use of local knowledge and initiatives. So these materials, in the script that we got, there's no record of how the funds, guarantees, guarantees and so on are shared in the counties. We saw it on these slides, but here, we don't have them here, so we can't compare it, but from what I've seen, there's a disproportionate investment, investment in certain counties. And we think, therefore, that HBOR should certainly play a major role in the coordinated regional development of the Republic of Croatia because the data from this laboratory, from this study, tells us that these differences are large so that according to these data, they are data for the past few years. In the study, therefore, World Bank experts divided Croatia into 5 regions. So here was the debate on three statistical, statistical regions. So they've proposed and these and statistical regions are 5. To keep these regions in line with some of their essential characteristics. Which is interesting, for example, in the table. Tables on robust regional rankings based on different indicators of development. We see great almost dramatic differences between certain regions, and what is particularly interesting and worrying that the two regions, eastern and central Croatia, are actually at the very bottom of some qualitative variables. Well, as far as income per capita is concerned from those five regions, the central region of the last, the eastern region is the last. Spending on the head of the population. The consumption is the smallest in the central region. The last place belongs to the Eastern region. The poverty rate, therefore, by these criteria the highest poverty rate is in the central region, the pre-latest place is the eastern region. Gross social product per capita. The eastern region is not the last place, the southern Adriatic is the last, and third is the central region. Average monthly income. The central region is the last place in 2806 kuna, the eastern region of the last 2826 kuna. More and higher education Eastern region is in the last place, the central region is in the last place. That's the information that warns us that all together, of course, and primarily the state itself, the government itself that must have... The basic law on equal regional development, but we also think the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development must therefore play a stronger role than it has so far to achieve that goal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I hope you have the same document, which is publicly presented and that it will also serve in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91316	Thank you. The president of the administration doesn't intend to give a final review. I'm closing the debate. Second. Annual reports, financial reports by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the HBOR for 2006. I am voting to confirm the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2006. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first report by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. As you know, we are in charge of overseeing the non-bank financial sector, which at this point with about 100 billion makes up about 40% of gross domestic product. We're monitoring about 220 subjects. We are also counting on the supervision of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Central Depositary Agency and Regos. At the end of last year, we had 97 employees. He's 110 employees now. We work within 5 sectors and 6 departments. The key event that took place last year was the initial public offering of Pliva, the initial public offering of "INA" and the takeover of Pliva. The capital market for supervision, we did 111 direct direct controls. We've taken four criminal charges, 71 requests to initiate a misdemeanor procedure. We also organised a capital market exam for an investment advisor, i.e. for brokers, 460 participants. As regards investment funds and pension funds, there were no major deviations in business. That property is now moving about 45 billion kuna. As far as insurance is concerned, about 20 billion is property, 25 companies, 2 resecuritisations. We have paid special attention to the supervision of companies that provide, apply the basic premium system to auto responsibility. We've taken appropriate measures. As far as lysing is concerned, it's an absolutely new law in application. Since December 21st last year, we have performed surveillance under the very Act on the Agency. When it comes to factoring, there's no special law. There are 8 companies with assets 1.7 billion and we co-operate with the Croatian National Bank. We have a special protocol on cooperation with other institutions such as the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS. We are also taking part in negotiations and in the part of screening with the European Union. We have 3 chapters also in which we participate, freedom of movement of capital, right of companies, financial services. In part of the financial report, you could see that the agency was exclusively financed from the compensation and income of the control entities and that we did not use the State budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91320	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91321	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleges. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been overseeing the non-bank financial sector since 1 January 2005. Independent and legal person with public authority and responsible Croatian Parliament. The core objectives of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency are to promote and preserve the stability of the financial system and to monitor the legality of the business of control entities. In achieving its objectives, the agencies should be guided by the principles of transparency and in particular by building trust among financial market participants and consumer reporting. The trends in the world's movements in recent years have been very clear. Increase the movement towards developing markets by developed and undeveloped markets. With the developed domestic fund industry, Croatia currently has a strong potential for further economic development based on financial industry and exports, i.e. imports of knowledge and capital. The opportunities for withdrawing foreign capital are numerous and depend solely on understanding the investor's needs, and they are not large, clear and transparent business and investor protection. The potential for economic development through the use of other people's capital through this way is exceptional. Large liquidity on the world market allows capital to be exploited, which requires opportunities for investment. Croatia must know how to attract such capital and engage it in development projects. In addition, considering the high possibilities of different investments, the domestic economy must be able to retain existing capital. The domestic financial industry is the most developed of the former Yugoslavia's states, with the exception of normal Slovenia, while Serbia has just passed the Investment Funds Act. Since the global and financial industries are moving capital towards developing markets, it is not logical to limit domestic industry from developed markets. The opportunities for profits that allow the developing market are far above those that offer saturated developed markets. Instead of trying to compete with global capital in developed markets, a more logical continuation of the development of domestic industry is through greater liberalisation of investments in local and regional markets and the possibility of better risk management in these markets compared to global competitors. Better knowledge of the opportunity of the market itself is the main advantage of domestic participants. From this aspect and the domestic industry can take a leading role in this region by encouraging Croatia's economic growth as well. In this direction, the aim of encouraging the capital market is also to enable domestics to have more eligible capital for development projects. This opens the possibility of developing domestic companies that would later achieve a surplus in the balance of payments through increased exports and generate stronger economic growth. All of this contributes to the development of the domestic financial industry, which creates added value through a high profile of education and thus promotes further growth of the economy. Given the degree of development and developed education of the domestic financial market, it is logical for the financial industry to be one of the main export products of the domestic economy and leaders among the markets of Southeast Europe. We're at the moment when it's necessary to recognize the opportunity and take advantage of it. The possibility of taking over a leading role in industry such as finance, an opportunity the domestic market should seek in neighbouring markets. Instead of investing in non-profit industries that have no comparative advantages of a small country such as Croatia should take advantage of the knowledge-based industry's potential. Only such an export product can enable long-term economic growth. The development of qualified institutional investors is encouraged by the creation of a new value in the economy. Given the rise in asset prices in Central and Eastern European countries, the strategy of these funds is no longer based on the purchase itself and the later expensive sale. The key item today is to add a new value to investment leading to greater participation of this investment in overall economic development. And generally, in this context, the role of the Financial Market Control Agency is extremely significant. We believe that HANFA is not working on one of its most basic tasks, and this is the development of the capital market, starting with the development of a legislative framework for the capital market to education that should focus on the adoption of specialist knowledge, but also on raising the general level of knowledge in the capital market. HANFA should warn of all unacceptable public appearances, in particular, HANFA should warn of all unacceptable public appearances especially on inappropriate statements by individual politicians in situations where this can have a significant impact on the capital market. All we can remember is a statement by responsible state officials on the viability of the purchase of INA shares. The only positive statement also for citizens is the encouraging process of interest in the purchase of shares INA, according to Varazdin Mayor Radimir Cacic, public enrolment. Furthermore, in the financial branch of HANFA, it is seen as a rigid state body that has focused on restrictions and punishment, the public non-critical calling of a participant of the capital market for alleged punishable actions has become a common practice in communicating HANFA with the public. A number of such examples, but let us only remember the example of Pliva and its director, Covic, who was publicly named by HANFA by the full name and last name for alleged illegal actions. Such and similar acts in which public interest is allegedly trampled and disregarded the principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty in an appropriate procedure, HANFA loses credibility and poses itself to an institution above the law. Such public information on trade and market participants who are insinuated by some kind of criminal treatment or conduct of opposite morality and good practice before all facts are established is offended by the right to a good name and a good voice as a right of personality and the jurisdiction and purpose of the existence of HANFA is exceeded. All of this contributes to investor skeptics and additional investor caution. The Croatian People's Party club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91322	Thank you. HDZ Club, the respected representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91323	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the first Annual Report of this institution that points to the fundamental goals of why it has been formed and what it has achieved in these only one year. And this nervousness, which is gradually expressed in some, clearly points to another reason why the HANFA should preferably have been formed before. The reasons why, I'll remind you briefly because on behalf of the HDZ Club, it seems to me that I was giving me the HANFA Act when we explained it, and here is today a brief correlation between this report that we have. I would like to remind you that we have then warned that it is necessary to urgently pass this law so that this institution is put into effect as soon as possible and can act on a particularly sensitive and new capital market that is in expansion in Croatian society. This is a newspaper, but since the ratio of the capital that the CNB controlled or controlled is approximately 60 percent of the capital, 40 percent of the capital was left without control or by way of control. That's exactly why HANFA covers these 40 percent. And how the capital market in Croatia is located in an expansion without experience from before, of course, that all speculative and other actions that can then happen in such an unregulated capital market are possible. HANFA has just put its point on the control and it is very broad of this 40 percent capital of a wide area of action and it was a capital market in particular in the previous year, the stock market as one detail, one segment of that market and last year one of the main reasons for increased capital imports with all positive ones, and we will see later and through the CNB's report and the negative impacts on the domestic market, the monetary market and in this sense this control was necessary and we believe that HANFA has achieved its goal because, among other things, the anxiety in the sales phase of Plive shares seemed to me, I will publicly say it because it was publicly and was made a complaint, and... he also objected to the Committee on Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Later, however, it appeared that the objection was only for anxiety and complaint. This is also the reason I repeat that HANFA is right in this space because it has started to control the area more intensively, warning these participants who have been uncontrollably earlier that this control is gradually introducing order and will gradually produce results, of course. It was also very lively and dynamic activity about the sale of INA shares and probably also this is about the anxiety of possible participants in the process and if, and HANFA has done its part of the task then there are reactions about it because they probably couldn't achieve certain objectives within that. Also important changes, broad control of investment funds, pension funds, the insurance market, we remember only lying when banks were to play domestic Croatian regulations during that period, because the control of capital imports was through all those elements of capital market control when banks resorted to the Leasing instrument and even at the end of the Leasing of apartments at sea and other things that were unacceptable, and just here HANFA established control and gradually took over the situation in its own hands. We believe that this report warns this and that, especially in the capital market, HANFA had a basic task of controlling the market and protecting investors or investors because they have been largely left to the market so far, not to mention the free speculative games that took place on the market, and it is known that in regulated markets and in much stronger controls and with much longer experience, there are speculative stock games and other games. E is precisely the role of HANFA to try to prevent, of course, we heard that they are related to the correlation with other security services, or supervisory services in the state, not to work for themselves but then in the overall supervision of these financial movements on the Croatian market to exercise control of this significant segment of capital in society. That is why the HANFA in this initial year gives good results, we see through the number of reports suspected of having been possible speculative and other abuses in the capital market, and other services will determine whether or not they have been realized and all the measures that carry the repressive measures that follow. So to HANFA and this report in the first year, we support its first year of work, we want to strengthen it, to fully stand alone what it is now and is also to fulfil that fundamental task of controlling the non-banking financial market and therefore we support this report and we believe that we have created a good foundation to continue to develop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91324	Thank you. An individual debate, a respected representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Would you like some? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Annual report for 2006 of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. I am giving the vote the conclusion that the abovementioned report is accepted. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 5 abstentions, 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91327	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. We can say that the basic law laid down the tasks of the Croatian National Bank in 2006. Therefore, price growth, we are talking about prices as a basic task has slowed down and in that year it slowed by 1.6 percentage points, from 3.6% at the end of 2005 to 2% at the end of 2006. The creation of a suitable environment for the maintenance of this low inflation has favoured the stability of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro, which has stabilised inflation expectations and also import prices from the euro zone, and also a rather strong appreciation of the euro compared to the dollar, and thus the kunas relative to the dollar which has in some ways contained, i.e. the rise in the price of oil and other raw materials on the world market. Basic inflation was also reduced from 3% at the end of 2005 to 2.3% in December 2006. At the same time, economic growth accelerated from 4.3% in 2005 to 4.8% in 2006. The dynamicisation of economic activity during the year is primarily the result of strengthening investment activity, but also the recovery of final consumption. The fixed capital investment significantly accelerated in that year, almost 11%, while the growth of the year before that was 4.8% and their contribution to the total growth of the gross domestic product was as much as 3.2 percentage points. In other words, more than two-thirds of the growth dynamic of economic activity should be attributed to the growth of investments. Personal consumption has also increased by 3 and a half percent in line with the growth of its sources, in line with the growth of around 2% in wages, in line with employment growth 3.3%, and in line with the growth of the population transfer, I will mention and mention the first two payments to pensioners. The contribution of personal consumption to the growth of gross domestic product made in percentage points was 2.1 percentage points. The country's consumption has also increased by 2.2% and this is the strongest increase in the last few years so that its contribution has also been positive, it has been 0.4 points. In a negative direction, however, changes in net foreign demand for more than one percentage point have worked. In all, the gross domestic product last year was nominal, reaching 251 billion kuna. Looking at this economic growth according to the production method, gross domestic value also increased by 4.8% by 4.1% in 2005 and in all categories and in industrial production, which has really increased by 4.7%, construction has once again strongly accelerated growth in 2006. He carried out 8.2%, not only because of road construction and similar projects, but especially because of the resuscitation and the strong momentum in works on buildings. Trade increased by 3.4%, catering 5.2%, transport, connection 8.5%. The acceleration of economic growth was also reflected in the labour market. At the end of 2006, 4.8% of the unemployed were registered. It was 293,000 people from the end of 2005. The average unemployment rate has been reduced to 16.6% and survey data from the international methodology, the International Labour Organisation, thus data that are internationally comparable show the same trends and show that the unemployment rate in the second half of 2006 fell to 10.5%. It is also important to note that 3.3% more than a year earlier was employed in 2006, which has actually been the strongest employment growth since 1998. However, with this number of positive movements from gross domestic product and employment, in reducing inflation to about 2%. In addition to further fiscal adjustment and a reduction in the budget deficit, a further reduction in unemployment last year still marked the continuation of some negative trends, and this extended some unsustainable trends over the longer term. First of all, I think of an increase in the deficit in the current balance of payments generated amongst others by the acceleration of growth, in any case the high growth of loans to banks in non-banking sectors, as well as the link to this credit growth and further, although the slowdown of foreign debt indicators. Such movement basically shows that the capital in Croatia is not used effectively enough. The negative impact of this inefficientness and capital use on inflation has lagged since it is a small open economy with high competition in trade, and surpluses and demand are offset through an increased minus in the current account. But it also says that equal growth can be achieved at a much lower rate of foreign borrowing and at a much lower rate of plasma growth. Or if we turn around and we can say that even with this rate of credit growth, we should expect a significantly higher growth rate of the economy. At the end of 2006, foreign debt amounted to 29 billion euros. In that year, therefore, it increased by three and a half billion euros or 13.7% and the share of debt in the gross domestic product increased further by three percentage points and reached 84.8% of gross domestic product. The ratio of debt and value of goods and services exports also deteriorated from 167% to 171%). The payment ratio of capital and interest in goods and services exports also increased from 24.1% to 34.1%. At the same time, the current balance of payments deficit increased to 2.6 billion euros, which accounts for 7.6% of gross domestic product. A year earlier, the minus was 6.3% of gross domestic product and with dynamic exports rising at a steady rate of very high 17.3% of the stock deficit increased to 8.4 billion euros. Such movements were only minorly covered by a surplus on services of 5.7 billion euros, primarily with profits from tourism estimated to have been 6.3 billion euros in the past year. The current payment deficit was therefore covered by foreign investment. The financial transactions of the capital account were plus 5.6 billion euros, and with the current account deficit there was further growth and this significant growth in the country's foreign reserves. As measures on the balance sheet are being taken, the growth amounted to 1.4 billion euros. During 2006, strong capital inflows exposed the kuna to strong appreciation pressures, and the Croatian National Bank facilitated such pressures with a number of foreign exchange interventions on the foreign exchange market and net purchases of one billion and 200 million euros from business banks. The foreign exchange reserves thus reached 8 billion and 700m euros at the end of the year, representing an increase of over 17%. To address the negative trends in balance of payments and foreign debt, further reduction of the fiscal deficit is needed, but further structural changes and reforms in the economy are particularly needed in order to make the economy more efficient and more competitive. The Croatian National Bank is under further circumstances because monetary policy in action on these mentioned negative movements is limitedly effective. In the given circumstances, it acted on those instruments it had in its possession and on the sector within its scope, which is the banking system. Among the key ones should be mentioned in the instruments mandatory reserve, border reserve and minimum foreign exchange liquidity. Also during 2006 several prudential regulations were amended and amended. At the beginning of 2006, the minimum reserve rate was reduced from 18% to 17% in order to provide banks with money, imobilised funds that would allow moderate plasma growth without the need of banks for additional borrowing abroad. At the same time, the rate of mandatory, borderary reserve from 40 to 55% was increased, which was assessed in the given conditions as a rate that would reduce interest differences and detimise additional borrowing. The prudential measures of the National Bank also focused on the function of such tightening and, in this area, the first and most important newspapers concerned the introduction of currency-induced credit risk. The banks are therefore now obliged to monitor and assess the foreign exchange coordination of their debtors and their ability to gossip about exchange rate changes and to amend certain provisions on capital adequacy. Banks, of course, are required from banks to have higher capital, higher capital adequacy in cases where they are exposed to debtors themselves exposed to currency risk. The obligation to reserve for identified losses on a common basis has also been introduced and the conditions for the establishment of reserves for general bank risks have been changed. Some other measures have been taken as well as a series of guidelines for risk assessment and risk management. Despite these monetary and... tightening the high amount of recapitalisation in banks and the high amount of retained profits and the growth of domestic sources were sufficient to continue the strong credit expansion of the banking system. The annual plasma growth rate rose from 17.2% to 22.9%, with companies growing more rapidly than 24% and 22% in the population. The rates of monetary aggregates also corresponded to such developments in bank assets, bank balances, so that the primary money increased by 15%, M1 or monetary mass by 25%, deposit money, i.e. the funds of the population and the companies on the giro and current accounts by 27%, cash in circulation of 20% and M4 so on. the widest monetary aggregate that includes previously mentioned and limited stakes saved by 18%. As far as the banking system is concerned, the end of the year ended with 33 banks, active in the system, of which 6 largest cover 80% of the markets measured by the size of their assets. 4 mean 12% of total activity, and 23 small with only 8% of total activity. In the last three years, the number of large and medium-sized banks has stabilized, and the number of small banks has decreased from 27 to 23. Based on ownership, the share of the total bank assets owned by domestic shareholders was only 5%, owned by 4.2% and by 90.8%. During 2006, there was a significant increase in bank capital of 34% and nearly 8 billion kuna respectively. Capital adequateness continued, however, to fall slightly and at the end of 2006, was 13.2%, which is still significantly more than the legal minimum of 10%. The quality indicators of the active banks are still very high, although the interpretation of these indicators should be cautious and make sure that they are in some way clouded by the very rapid increase in bank balances and therefore by a large proportion of new credits in the balance sheet which are, by definition, non-problematic or less problematic. The liquidity indicators were also very high. The banking system was liquid, the banks had no difficulty undermining their commitments. Bank gains at the end of 2006 were 4.3 billion kuna and increased by 5.5% but it can be seen that the growth rate is increasing from year to year, so let's say in 2004, the profit increased by 21% and 2005. 11%. No bank at the end of 2006 showed any loss. Finally, we mention the successful completion of the stand by the IMF programme last year, in mid-November, where the greatest progress has been made in the area of public finances. Smaller progress in the area of some structural procedures. And that is why we finally point out again precisely with fiscal and monetary tightenings and roles, especially the importance of structural changes in the economy that would increase the growth rate of the economy, increase the efficiency of investment and break or significantly mitigate negative trends in foreign debt and balance of payments, which would put our growth on a long-term sustainable basis. Finally, you can see in detail the real developments and monetary policies, the situation in the banking system, payments and other central bank functions in the annual report the financial reports of the Croatian National Bank which show a high growth of interest and related incomes that amounted to a billion and 712 million kuna compared to, say, a year earlier, a billion and 193 billion kuna. However, due to very high calculated unrealised negative exchange rate differences which, by law and accounting standards, reduce excess income over expenditure. This surplus expenditure revenue amounted to 270 million of which 165 million were allocated to general reserves, and 105 million in the state budget as an exceptional revenue of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91328	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative of the Mato Church. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Cuba IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91329	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the Croatian National Bank, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! When a man reads this report from the Croatian National Bank, he always asks himself who we are, what we are and where we are going? It's clear, you don't need to panic, you don't need to be dramatic, but it always does. Here, the gross social product we heard is growing in the first few months of 2007 at a rate of 6%, industrial production is rising at 7.9%, trade 7.6%, construction is growing at 6.5%, tourism is 7.2%, but exports are only 2.1% while imports are growing at an 8% rate on the other side. Recently, Mr. Rohatinski thought it was this gathering in Opatija about what he said. If we don't change the whole of economic policy, our beautiful one won't be ours anymore. To be clear, I am not afraid of relevant investments, especially in industry, although too few Croatia has. You should encourage them. I'm not afraid of investment in tourism. See only how many new hotels have been built in the last 15 years on the Adriatic Sea. We have 6 thousand 200km of coast, and I claim that in those 15 years, five new hotels have not been built on the entire Adriatic coast, provided they have more than 150 beds. Finally, where does it lead? The entire tourism or a good part of tourism in bankruptcy, so the protested state guarantees that must serve the state budget also refers to Opatija or Liburni and hotels in Crikvenica and Živogost and Podgora and Omislje and Medena and Solta or Pica and hotels new and Huma, is not that near Buzet. And Topusko and Plata, and so on. Here, it also speaks of Croatian tourism among other things. I say it is not normal for Istrian tourism to earn seven times the profit of all Croatian tourism together. But for me, when I mention the governor of Mr. Rohatinski's Croatian National Bank, however, was one of his statements in an interview he gave to Globus, for example two, three weeks ago, actually crucial. He literally says, I quote: "This year, it reaches 7.2 billion euros in charge of the principal and 580m euros in interest on these loans, which is the equivalent of more than 20% of gross domestic product. Hence, it is also clear what consequences for the national economy could have any problems in the area of refinancing of the principal or growth of interest rates, etc. He concludes that this does not mean "debt slavery" yet, but the fact that a country with such obligations is very sensitive to the action of external facts or what it says is a factor." It's a done quote. Here, I'll do it again. This 2007 is due back 7.8 billion euros. That's 57 billion kuna. That's 20% of gross social product and that's terrible. We comfort ourselves that we are not over-indebted. Just until we're too in charge? Ino's debt reached 29.6 billion euros in March. By the end of 2007, again, the governor's figure will be 32 billion euros, which is over $40 billion. True, it grows slower than in 2006. It grows at 11.5% not as in 2006. 13.5%. But if it's impossible to stop the growth of the inland debt below 10% a year, and it's impossible if we want current standards, then the same standards will mean in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 at least 45 to 50 billion euros. The truth is, it's going to be a gross social product, 6%, 7%. This is realistic if they start to arrive at relevant investments. Finally, if for three, four years in a row Istria has growth of gross products at 11%, then 6%, 7% in Croatia, is reality. But what's the point? This year, Croatia will once again say it must return 7.8 billion euros. In the next five years, Croatia will, because we will have to pay additionally, and we do it annually, and we do it, the sea, so Croatia will, in five or five years of that period, also have to return, which I am 100% convinced of, close to 30 billion euros. 30 billion euros. So in five years, Croatia's external debt will reach 45 maybe 50 billion euros, and in that period we will return 30 billion euros. And there's a clear solution to that. But I need you to put your heads together. You need to start working. First, you need to clean up corruption and I assure you that the biggest Croatian problem in five years will be labour, as is the case today in Istria, Zagreb and Dalmatia as a whole. In Istria today we have more jobs than in the '90s, less unemployment than in the '90s, but what's most important is exports are four times bigger than those pre-war '90s. the year and the coverage of exports clearly without tourism is 90% to 95%. That's the point. But it should work. And what I've said before, it's not, once again, just one sentence about Istria, I won't talk about it anymore, Istria is just a tourist destination, regardless of what 40% of Croatian tourism is and no matter what it achieves seven times the profit of all Croatian tourism combined. First in Istria, industry is 33. 34%, second in trade. Tourism is only 10% and then construction comes which will for the first time exceed the revenues from tourism this year 2007 and then no wonder why those who defend to alienate national property under cars are also set up by bombs. And that gang that does that is either in the fund or somewhere else needs to be eliminated. Why am I saying that? Not because Istra is supposed to be a pattern, but because our stock deficit is $10 billion. And what we are going to face is the fact that Croatia is going to be in trouble with how to secure foreign exchanges. That's the point. Today it's still going. Croatia exports $10 billion. Croatia is in debt for 5 billion euros annually. Croatia sells assets a billion, two billion euros a year. Croatian foreign exchange records from our workers are a billion euros. Croatia makes $7 billion out of tourism, which I personally do not believe. Croatia since transport, etc., is making another billion euros. Direct investment is what banks leave 2.9 billion euros a year. And that's where we get about 25 billion euros in foreign exchanges. On the other hand, Croatia imports 21 billion dollars. Croatia is paying off loans of EUR 7.8 billion. We're still coordinating that, but we have a problem. The external debt in 2003 was 75.5% of gross social product. In 2006, 84.7% of gross social product. In 2007, it'll be over 87 percent, maybe 88% of gross social product. So for the third time, let's put our heads together. And let's start working. I'm not saying we need to extort the country, but let's start working. Or the government debt is €6.48 billion until March this year, and it amounts to 21.9% in total. We refute Shuker that he reduced him by 3.1% this year. The bank's debt is EUR 10.26 billion. It's down to 37.1%, from 37.1% to 34.7%. Let's face it, Rohatinski. The economy rose from 28.3% to 33.6% and amounts to €9.96 billion. In the first three months of 2007, the debt was increased by EUR 635 million and the debt to businesses reached some EUR 619 million. Maybe it's someone's gonna say good if it's about goods for export. If it's the equipment. But on the other hand, Croatian banks' loans have exceeded, and that should be said to 200 billion kuna, from which 101.9 billion kuna is mainly for apartments, is not bad. So it's not the classic consumption, it's the development, and they're, and they're growing by 31.8% year-on-year while loans to businesses reach 83.2 billion kuna and are 41.6% in that amount and they grow by 23.9% in 2006 or 0.8% faster than citizens' loans. Why am I talking about that inner debt? For two reasons. First, why are our citizens unhappy? Well, they're all in charge of the core. EUR 3000, let's say someone per capita if we look at how much it is without external debt. Maybe it's not much, but it's, it's certainly one-third of a gross social product. They know that these citizens no longer have, our neighbours of social housing, and if for a 50 square-square apartment you have to cost 75 thousand euros to the bank in 10 years or 15 you'll have to give up that much then it comes to 150 thousand euros, he'll have his own apartment in 15 years, but in 15 years he'll have to give up everything. And the second question, the second issue of Croatian disaster, is the sale of banks. These 8 mean that they were resold for 4 billion 935 million kuna or not full EUR 700 million. And they were rescheduled according to DAB with $11.5 billion. According to some even a lot, much more is set aside for those purposes. But the point is, no more uncertainty, good for savings. Their activity on the other hand is 300 billion kuna. They collect 14 billion kunas each year from interest. They received 4.2 billion kunas or for a one-year profit of 7 years after privatisation they harvested as much as they paid there in 2000. And about the property of, I don't know, Istria tourists and other tourist companies and so on, I'm not gonna waste any more words. Croatia is a strange country. Often comical. We are defending an Italian to buy 500 square meters of land, and we left 50% of the money market to the Italians through Zagreb and Privredna banka. So let's say from nine members of the supervisory board in Zagrebačka banka, only Mr. Vlahovic from the TDR or the Adria Group of Croatian Nationalities. And if Prka had not been Minister of Finance for himself, he would probably not have been the head of that institution of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the tragedy. But that comedy is coming to an end. And now to paraphrasise Rohatin's "Beautiful" won't be ours. But not because of those 500 square meters of land in Istria or Dalmatia, but because of the policy I'm describing now, and if tomorrow after selling banks, HT, INA, Dukat and so on we sell and HEP then I don't know what's actually going to happen? According to the Croatian National Bank, direct investment in Croatia with retained profits is €14.2 billion or €100 billion from 1993 to 2007. At the same time, Croatia invested EUR 880 million abroad. Of those 14 billion kuna on Greenfield investment, it's about 20% off, and now I'm not saying it's who it is. We know, do you know where the most, as many as EUR 914 million is invested in this Croatian export of money by Croatian companies? In the manufacture of chemical products. And another detail. There are 150 Slovenian companies in Croatia. In Slovenia 80 Croatian companies should also be smart about Piran Bay. Foreigners also hold 33.2% of the securities or Circ. 127.7 billion kuna of the total Croatian market value of 384.7 billion kuna. And finally let no one think about devaluation because the fall of kuna by 10% and some parties have started to say it would increase the debt of citizens by 33 billion kuna or 12% of gross social product, which would turn many citizens into black. But to be honest, I also want to believe that as soon as possible we will enter the European Union, as soon as possible in the EURO zone, and that perhaps that way we will get rid of this failure of that external debt. And to end the liquidity or blockade of 23 thousand 146 legal persons whose debt reaches 12.7 billion kuna, 50% of which falls to the one without workers and annually, and that's growing by 12%. That's what I'm saying in the context of events in the fund. So for the end once again, we don't need to give up clearly, but it's getting better, everything needs a little bit better to look at this and especially when it comes to external debt because I really don't know if it's really comforting that we can realize that in 5 years, Croatia's external debt will be 45 to 50 billion euros and that we will have to pay back 30 billion euros of external debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91330	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91331	Well, here's what I have to do to correct one incorrect quote from my colleagues, and that's that all those who are raising housing loans are actually going to have to give up everything that's absolutely not true for years. I know hundreds of young experts who have very high wages, who can pay off debts without a problem, whose loans are very, very favourable. And to remember for a little while in the '80s, inflation and shortages could only be credited to politically elected people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91332	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91333	Dear Mr. Vice President, representative of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and fellow MPs. The real financial sector should be the face and face of the economy. For coherent development, monetary authority plays a key role, and with us is the Croatian National Bank. Our exchange rate policy and the domestic parity of the kuna compared to the euro or dollar for our foreign trading partners is not important at all. They count all transactions in euros or dollars, not kunas. Kuna's parity is therefore exclusively an instrument of internal policy and redistribution in Croatia in which importers and those who pay large loans and those who lose exporters and the total economy and all others for years have not had a desirable economic policy framework, development of entrepreneurship and greater employment of the workforce and other resources. Thus, due to years of practice, much larger imports than exports of debt to abroad have been artificially interpreted, thus disrupting the natural nature of the supply and demand of domestic and foreign currencies. In an artificial way, the situation has arisen that all products are the smartest to be imported into us and that we do not need industry and agriculture. Thus, its own production is dimming and neglecting that it cannot be compensated by the marketing campaigns of the type “let’s buy Croatian” but by a balanced exchange rate of kuna compared to the euro or dollar. When it comes to expansion, narrowing down international loans is the central bank's duty to prevent excesses. Commercial banks seek to maximise their profits, especially those owned by foreign governments within existing regulations very successfully, and so far the practice and experience gives us the right to doubt that they are also involved in creating regulations or for them favourable decisions. One fresh example is the decision by the Croatian National Bank to limit the growth of banks at 12% annual level, "National Journal" 142/2006. Foreign-owned banks, first foreign-owned banks, which is the majority of Croatian banks more than 90% of the assets of the entire banking system, will continue to finance their clients by bypassing this decision in a way that the assessment of clients and processing of requests in Croatia will then be directed to their central bank abroad for the technical realization of the loan. This means that the funds will come from a foreign central directly at the client's expense and that the clients will be financed by foreign banks. Thus, such conditionally stated domestic banks will not formally cross the approved threshold for an increase in credit activity, but I will therefore generate an increase in foreign debt by increasing the debt of the economy abroad. Secondly, profits and taxes from the lending of domestic companies will go abroad and the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be left without these revenues. The state allows foreign financial institutions not to pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia with this measure of the Croatian National Bank. Thirdly, no less important good clients will be donated to the portfolio of foreign banks, their headquarters abroad, while weaker and weaker clients will remain in Croatian banks. This is a strategic bad for the Croatian banking sector because the best corporate clients become clients of foreign banks. Fourth. The domestic foreign-owned banks will continue to finance citizens who are the main generator of excessive imports, and thus also the foreign payment deficit of the Republic of Croatia. Fifth. The growth of active domestic banks owned by foreign banks in 2006 is such that ultimately and this restriction and will not have an impact on the possibility of placements unlike all owned by domestic banks, and above all one of our largest and that is the Post Bank. The restrictions on credit growth have affected small, domestic, local banks that are mainly funded by small businesses and craftsmen and local entrepreneurs, who are not too interested in large banks. Small entrepreneurs will find it much more difficult to obtain loans which will further increase the deficit and make it impossible for entrepreneurship to develop. Domestic banks are generally financed from domestic sources of depositors and do not participate in generating problems in debt and deficits while the main generators of debt are large banks that finance their activities through their owners. This measure punishes domestic banks while large foreign banks, which are also the cause of the problem, can go back to business as normal. And lastly, all the administrative linear measures introduced so far have not been effective because banks always find ways to circumvent these measures that will be done through us this time, and by an easily understandable logic these last measures are in the continuity of the very bad measures that the Croatian National Bank introduces because the most affected by small and medium, small, medium and large Croatian banks and subsequent entrepreneurship, and will not result in a reduction in the ino of debt. We believe that the Croatian National Bank should adopt measures that restrict or collect funding for consumption, imports and the like. This can be done to tighten the criteria for this type of funding, to increase the necessary reserves on this type of credit, and also to bring monetary policy into line with fiscal policy, and to influence common measures on debt reduction and to promote structural reforms. Croatia, with a Circular debt of 30 billion euros or a recalculated $37 billion, was a re-indebted country and this was to be written in this annual report, with a proposal for measures to stop further exacerbation of external debt. The problem is, of course, internal debt. The Croatian National Bank should be a competent, independent institution that, with the legislative, executive and judicial authority responsible for monetary policy, promotes the prosperity and development of the Republic of Croatia. Instead, in 2006, it was the main objective of having the stability of the kuna and protecting it with all available means, completely forgetting the fundamental reason for its monetary authority's existence that its main reason was not the protection of the kuna but the economic prosperity of the community and its well-being. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91334	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91335	Mr. Vice-President, Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this report. And we'll see why they'll back him up. This report is very comprehensive and it can be summarised in two parts. In the first part of the report on the macroeconomic environment within the state and from it can be read a lot, a lot of the goals that have been achieved and how they have been achieved, which I will try to briefly illustrate. In the second part, it can be summarised in those monetary instruments that the Croatian National Bank has performed that monetary function for which it is in charge of what we have previously commented, with the HANFA part of the control, through control of capital imports, price stability, inflation stability, etc. This part should therefore also be warned through certain indicators so that it can be seen that in this year, the Croatian National Bank has achieved fundamental objectives in such a macroeconomic environment that has followed us. Another thing is macroeconomic theorists whether the model should be another, under then different reports and achievements that would be achieved. Fortunately, there is no Istrian National Bank here, and then colleagues from Kajin would not be able to comment on the part of the comment which had previously been made through the continuous repetition of the Report on the State of the Economy and the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank. It is therefore necessary to consider it accordingly, and thus to pollemise one another and to present these different assessments and attitudes about that achievement. Here, to facilitate the monitoring of these indicators that we will now see in this second part, i.e. in the first part, in a state of macroeconomic environment. I want to highlight several of the fundamental strategic objectives that have been set earlier and which should have been changed gradually every year and during this year, there can be seen any changes that we have experienced in these macroeconomic objectives through this instrument and macroeconomic policy. But also the controls we have had and the points of contact that are driven by fiscal and monetary power and that still needs to be improved and improved. So let me just point out some of these goals. One of the strategic goals was fiscal consolidation. So through the current deficit achieved through these indicators, it is clear that stability has been achieved and that all the tendencies are that there will be a further reduction of deficits, which means there is no risk of those who are formerly colleagues of instructions from possible instability within the sector. Similarly, it is necessary to allocate generators, developmentists in which the state used to be a public sector infrastructure consumer, the main vehicle of development and participation in the structure of the gross social product, allocate to the private sector, which is clearly seen now that over 60% of gross social product and development is a private sector. Similarly, we can observe that this function has also been performed and that through this system of further control we will also see through the system of expansion of banks and bank loans to citizens earlier that happened now in the previous year. Similarly, the macroeconomic environment and the strategic objective of seeing this expenditure are that by reducing investment in the state public sector, we are reducing both consumption and allocating it to other areas, i.e. liberating part of the funds used to encourage the economy, and we already see that 60% of the structure has gone to the private sector that then carries with it and employment in this sector, but also increasing the revenues of the same sector, as well as redistributing the funds of the same sector in order to each year, we have these days on the board, we will have new laws that point to the need to finance new contracts that we have with different countries, and especially pre-accession funds in which it is necessary to free funds to finance and monitor these projects every year. Therefore, this part of the cost of state spending in this second sector is allotted, thus achieving stability in this sector as well. Furthermore, in the case of external debt, I will then comment on how much time it allows, but only now notice that one of the basic functions of the CNB has and control would say that external debt or vulnerability in that sector of debt. And the fact that we had previously found the condition that the main one was, firstly, the biggest debtor was the state. There were banks in second place, and third place was the rest. Now right now, through this report, we see that the structure has changed. So the goal was also achieved in this area in a way that now in the first place, so the biggest debtor, the ino debtor, remained so-called. so defined others, and these are mainly companies, companies. And now I want to point out exactly because the comment was completely wrong before. He says the CNB didn't perform this function. So the CNB can't control the economic sector's duties right here, and they're in the first place today, so the biggest debtors in the ino. So the National Bank can't control that sector. The possible control of citizens or we have heard the story, or an attempt to explain the risks of the external sector, that the population cannot be in charge of the home, so the population is now fleeing outside. Well, on the contrary, we pulled the state out of debt outside, but we moved her to be in debt at home. And the population as an individual, as a citizen, will be difficult or in no way in these conditions and now carry out their duties outside. It's mostly business. Especially large systems that are, and it's good to be able to borrow themselves out, so opportunities and mostly without state guarantees and everything else, which means that through that, and the story of that is that through mortgages, real estate and the rest, of course, domestic banks, and banks are more than 90% foreign-owned. And so this property is in debt or mortgages with these banks. Therefore, there is no risk, I repeat from specific external risks in order to create instability in the monetary or this part of the macroeconomic situation within the state. In that sense, this vulnerability through the change of structure and through the change of positions reduces the risk for the general state and already warns that the state has reduced its eye debt seems to me to be about 28%, which means that the state is very well-managed with this part and that in the first place it crosses this private sector and takes the initiative that we have advocated, that the private sector is the generator of the development of society, that it is the bearer, the key bearer of this increase in the gross social product, which means one stability when it takes over the full or most of the actual structure in that. Here, within that macroeconomic environment through that data I point only. Or, here, I'll use, part-timed and debated only one quote or one introduction from this report that says that macro, and confirms in fact, the macroeconomic developments in 2006 marked on one side high economic growth, low inflation, a stable rate, an item of deficit reduction that I commented on upstairs, but of course, with a note that the external deficit is increasing on the balance sheet and I'm going to comment on how much we get. The real sector points to an increase in the social product by half of the index point and points out now the latest reports are very acceptable and above not only European but above global growth, and if such a rate would be maintained, there is once more indication of stability and there is no risk and danger that we have already heard of. The main contribution or contribution to such a stable increase in gross social product I repeat was the private sector, investment in capital. They were also, I index have no time or need to list, there was also personal consumption. Here's the first time personal consumption is conditioned by a rise, a real increase in net wages. Something bigger gross real, but for the first time or growing and this part of real net pay. So transfers to the population as well as through that pension fund tax and the defense fund, but the funds used as a refund and through that social welfare community and this part make up the largest part of the actual expenditure in the state register. The aim of this is therefore also to lead social policy and to lead this part of the debt recovery policy to pensioners, defenders and others, as it clearly points out through this consumption, a significant contribution continues to give consumers credits, banks are scramblingly fighting for clients and leading expansionist policies, and we see later through retained profits and other instruments that they are actually trying to play their own interesting, rather than developmental, desired developmental state policy. But that's when and at that point you can say that we lost some of the national monetary sovereignty when those banks were transferred to that property. But today the structure and condition is what it is, so we can just track what's actually going on. Also, the increase in domestic consumption through, by consumption or potential the possibility of domestic consumption conditioned both imports of goods and precisely this rebalancing largest on imports of goods. On the one hand, the imports of goods we saw car imports, and they are all externally and credited with external capital, are just increasing that position that imports of goods come first. The biggest rebalancing, we will see briefly through exchange rate policy, that it is not only the result of wishes but also certain conditional movements within it and that, through such an increase in domestic demand, we are also affecting the increase in capital, imports of capital and imports of goods. Fortunately, I repeat, both imports of goods, i.e. machinery and equipment in that part of which is used in the industry or in the import of enterprises because it will create jobs, but this is a clean consumption that gives a negative contribution to the gross increase of the social product. In this time as a result of this stable economic growth, we have for the first time a decline, a significant drop in unemployment or growth, employment growth and a decline in unemployment. Either by world methodology or by any other, it points to the stabilisation of the sector and indicates that during the year the employment rate is growing in all months rather than as a seasonal impact on it. Through prices and exchange rates, the attempt to talk about what the CNB might be, we confirm from the HDZ Club that it has achieved its role through exchange rate stability, through price stability and through a certain monetary policy, and also through foreign policy instruments through the debt of banks and transfer of capital beyond direct investment, because this transfer of capital is still desirable and we have one part of the capital to avoid, which, as a result of such monetary measures, are primarily bank holders, slightly withdrawn through the recapitalisation system and re-entered the Croatian market and then fertilise that part of the capital. Therefore, there is always a model, regardless of the objections that come from these circles. Here through inflation I said in the introduction that it is very stable and that it is even lower than European inflation, therefore no wonder can occur that a disturbance could occur and that then the result could be the threat of the population or the state or anyone in that part, at least according to these indicators. In the monetary sphere of last year, the characteristic of high kuna liquidity, although we have heard different stories, is therefore high Kunska. A further highlighted expansion of banks. In the case of imports very briefly listed, but all the monetary policy measures are steamed as much as possible through this system of banks and the most objections coming from banks as the result, as well as the reserves of the CNB seem to me to be 8.7 billion euros, as they said they grew mostly because they then immobilized some of the capital from banks, and then it also makes a multiplicated external debt. It's all true, but it's also true that they couldn't be placed on the domestic market because it would create uncontrollable demand, and that's where they'd come in at the exchange rate between the kuna and between the euro or between the dollar and the total then after a disorder that could no longer be spiraled into inflation could no longer be controlled. And it's not political decisions or political decisions, because inflation then ultimately nobody would have if they could just make a political decision and control it that way. So, in short for exports, ships, oil, oil derivatives, machinery and equipment, I said in import that domestic demand, credit expansion, oil imports, oil derivatives, iron and steel and cars are the most affected. These are the main groups that make us rebalance on goods imports, and there's no philosophy that now it's who knows the unknown or any other imports from which the instability of the market comes. But through this structure, I don't think we can give up anything but act on harmonisation, and that's why I advocate and advocate, that it is necessary to act on the harmonisation and synchronisation of fiscal and monetary policy measures, and then those so synchronised can give a synergistic effect, and through that way we can achieve full stability. In the end, the profit of the 170 million kuna CNB is shown for the first time, therefore the loss which it was in last year is no longer shown, so I see no reason why this report should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91336	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91337	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice Governor. In the past year, the Croatian National Bank has focused its business on achieving the primary objectives set by the Law on the Croatian National Bank of 2001 and, of course, all these additions until last year. In my court, the Croatian National Bank carried out its basic tasks. The positive characteristics of macroeconomic developments in 2006 are high economic growth, low inflation, a stable exchange rate and a continued reduction in the budget deficit. At the same time, a significant increase in the balance of payments deficits by 7.6% of GDP due to the high growth of bank credit ratings and an increase in foreign debt are movements which are seriously worrying and are not sustainable in the long term. These movements show that the inflow of capital in our country was not effectively used in the development of the economy but was aimed at personal consumption. I think that's actually our biggest problem. In order to maintain price stability, the CNB continued to implement measures to limit external imbalances in 2006 so that monetary policy instruments further dimmed the new debt of business banks abroad. The rules in the prudential regulation bank were forced to increase recapitalisation and, in addition to these measures, the growth of bank placements increased in 2006 so that the National Bank, in addition to the measures used to collect foreign credit obligations, introduced additional ones. Of the key instruments the CNB used in 2006 I would point out the following. She introduced a mandatory reserve that dropped from 18.6 to 17% in early 2006 counting that our banks will have enough capital and that their credit ratings will not exceed 12% compared to the last year of course. Of course, the banks didn't stick to it, so then the National Bank, our central bank, introduced a border reserve that it changed three times during 2006, and to increase those reserves to 65% for that overrun over 12%. It also introduced minimal foreign currency liquidity, which is the usual measure in the business of banks. However, the banks did not stick to this either, and then it still had to introduce a special mandatory 55% reserve on the bank's obligations as the basis of the debt securities obligation, as it also started to trade nicely on the financial market whether and thus the money came in nicely. In order to avoid the measures of the National Bank under our commercial banks, they provided additional funds for the financing of their customers on the market and from increased savings, but also from the restructuring of liabilities, because they replaced their foreign exchange obligations with kuna and then the National Bank returned to them in September 2006 and included in the total foreign exchange liabilities with the currency clause. So, according to my assessment, this is a very complex monetary situation where the National Bank, by protecting the declared policy, had to take such measures and, by my assessment, had to be even more stringent. Despite the tightened measures, high amounts of capitalisation and growth of domestic savings enabled banks to continue their credit ratings, so the plasma growth rate increased from 17% in 2005 to 24.7% in 2006 and if the course was excluded at the end of 2006. In December 2006, the Croatian National Bank responded to these activities by means of further measures, with cash registers from the Croatian National Bank. The basis for enrolment is above 12%, and the rate of mandatory registration of cash registers is 50% and as far as I know the National Bank and now continues to apply these measures. For this reason, banks have directed their economic clients to foreign borrowing with their owners. Although this is a very good situation for our companies to be directly in debt abroad, but think about it, instead of giving credit to our businesses, they've nicely directed these companies to raise money abroad and to owe themselves and, of course, the state that way. Thanks to the measures of the National Bank, business banks have increased their placements to companies for the first time in 10 years. These plasmas have grown more than the population. It should be noted that during 2006, consumer price growth has slowed by 1.6 percentage points. All of this has created favourable conditions for maintaining a stable exchange rate towards the euro and for increasing the US dollar course. Basic inflation decreased from 3% in 2005 to 2.3% in December 2006. During 2006, the Kuna course was constantly exposed to appreciation pressures due to the inflow of capital from abroad. At foreign exchange auctions, the Central Bank purchased 995m euros and an additional 208.2m euros for the purpose of taking over the Plive d.d. Due to measures taken by the Central Bank that have collected foreign sources of financing and increased kuna... accelerate the growth of monetary aggregates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As Mr. Vice Governor here pointed out the primary money increased by 14.7% during 2006, in addition to foreign interventions and transactions, the creation and withdrawal of primary money took place on a regular weekly reverse... Money mass M1 increased in 2006 by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the total liquidity funds... increased by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must stress that our country's external trade trade was negative in 2006. Imports are higher than exports, and the payment deficit is increased by 7.6% of gross domestic product. Foreign debt has also increased, amounting to 29.1 billion, but in the structure of this debt, the state has reduced its debt and has fallen to 6.6%. The National Bank also dealt neatly with international reserves, one of the basic tasks and international reserves at the end of the year was 8.7 billion. And it would have ended with the fact that our central bank had managed the payment turnover of banks neatly, that she had managed the vault business properly, that she had achieved in her business a surplus of income over expenditure and that, in accordance with the law, she had allocated one part of the funds to the state budget and the other part to the reserves. According to my assessment, the Croatian National Bank has done its tasks neatly set up by law. And, Mr. Vice President, I will certainly support the National Bank report here, which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91338	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91339	Thank you very much. The first sentence of the 2006 Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank reads: High Economic Growth, Low Inflation, a stable course and a continuation of the budget deficit are the key positive features of the macroeconomic economic movements in 2006. Economic growth cannot, unfortunately, be seen as high or sufficient but completely insufficient for a serious economic step. All new members of the European Union note significantly greater economic growth. Neighbouring Slovenia 5.6, Romania 7.7, or Estonia's record economic growth of nearly 12, actually 11.9%. ... the course has its own price which does not correspond to our economy because it chokes serious export growth and balance of payments with abroad, while at the same time stimulating imports of goods and services from abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The continuation of the budget deficit may be correct but it is completely unrealistic because its long-term reduction is possible only by increasing the volume of newly created values. The role of the Croatian National Bank over the past period was more than sad and bad, because for the lack or no control of the business of the financial sector for which the Croatian National Bank was in charge, there was not a single resignation for moral reasons, but the responsible persons became vice governors of the Croatian National Bank and many of them are still in responsible positions in the Croatian National Bank and this should be spoken of. The total recovery of the banking sector was $5.5 billion, and the banks were... only 3.9 billion and 3.9 billion, all on a completely unrealistic assumption that we are unable to manage or take risks from the financial sector's operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that foreign banks are scattered and over 20% per year, housing loans are about 39%, mainly in the population and the Croatian National Bank is fighting a small war with business banks trying to keep the administrative measures in the frames of 12% of annual growth. The mission is absolutely impossible, foreign banks are threatening a constitutional lawsuit for formal legal reasons, and the main thing is to offer foreign goods with a wave from countries where foreign banks, which are also understandable, encourage the purchase of their goods in the Republic of Croatia, in particular through cards, there were credit, refurbishment and payments through the war offered by banks to both credit and non-bonding clients and thus provide an unlimited possibility of debt. The total population's debt has passed over nearly 100 billion kuna and is estimated to be about 50 billion in debt per bank card. It's never too late to learn something from a failure. If perhaps the situation of things cannot return to the beginning when 5.5 billion invested in then largely state-owned companies and banks would retain many jobs and ownership of the bar over most of the banking sector. The results of the business of the Croatian National Bank in 2006, as can be seen from the reports, were within the limits of possible and the fact that more than 93% of banks are owned by foreign banks and that the influence of the Croatian National Bank cannot be greater than it is now respecting existing relations. However, what the Croatian National Bank can do for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia according to the law but does not do enough in order to monitor compliance with the legality of the banking sector, citizens are left entirely to seek the protection of their rights which have been violated in the bank which has caused them in court. Namely, the Bank Act of the Croatian National Bank is authorised under its supervisory authority over banks to verify whether the Bank generally adheres to good business practices, published general terms and conditions of business and contracts it has concluded with its clients, but is not obliged to address individual customer advertising. There is the obligation of the Croatian National Bank to ensure that the lawfulness of the bank's business is respected by their clients, not by engaging in individual cases but by looking at the whole, but there is no information in this report that is specifically done on this plan. The problems of the relationship between business banks and their clients are limited and, as we heard in this assembly in the debate on the new Consumer Protection Act, the tasks of an independent regulator who would be in charge of monitoring market phenomena and taking measures that would prevent the self-will of the banking sector, no one is doing because to monitor the business between banks and their clients that things are now not even competent, so in cases of infringement of client rights, only the court as an institution remains, and there is no need to point out the problem for the average citizen who lacks knowledge and money to conduct the dispute. It's terrible that all the above-mentioned banks know, so they're not afraid of bigger problems because clients are having a hard time deciding to argue with the bank anyway. Banks also understandably have a primary objective and task to ensure as much profit as possible, and in the conditions of high demand by customers that the unwarranted and justified are not in their priority. Therefore, the role of the Croatian National Bank in preventing or outside the right of the citizens of the bank is immeasurable and is expected to do everything in order to appoint an independent regulator that, whether within or outside the Croatian National Bank, is similar to that of the HANFA for financial services involving securities, insurance and funds, since its impact on banks in predominantly foreign ownership is not in line with the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91340	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91341	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Vice-Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian National Bank can greatly influence economic developments, economic development and the general consolidation of the state through monetary policy instruments. Therefore, in the Croatian National Bank report, macro-economic movements and the degree of economic and overall social activity are shown in the introductory section because they can assess the effectiveness of the measures taken and the instruments of monetary policy. The monetary policy, however independent of various political influences, must also be in the role of realising the objectives outlined by the overall economic and social development strategy. If constant economic growth, low inflation, a stable exchange rate and a continuation of the budget deficit are the main features of macroeconomic developments in 2006 then the Croatian National Bank in its section in last year's work. And that's the instruments of monetary policy. How in 2006 the Croatian National Bank, while maintaining low inflation and a stable exchange rate, also focused on slowing the growth of foreign debt through monetary policy instruments, has directly detimised the new borrowing of business banks abroad. Thus, the Croatian National Bank continued to apply the border reserve, with an additional increase from 40 per cent to 55 per cent and an extension of the scope. In addition, a number of regulations in the field of prudential regulation, special reserve obligations introduced and registration of mandatory Croatian National Bank cash registers were amended and amended during 2006. As economic indicators of the development achieved, such as the growth of gross domestic product, industrial production, employment and other already commented on previous exhibitions and in the Croatian report, as well as in the report of representatives of the Croatian National Bank, I would not repeat them in my presentation, but thanks to the actions of the Croatian National Bank, there has been a change in the structure of the active banks. However, I think it is important to mention an increase in the participation of deposits with the Croatian National Bank, vault and cash registers and securities while loans to other users in absolute terms continue to account for more than 50% of the assets. Speaking of loans, I must point out that unlike earlier years in 2006, the growth of credit to businesses has intensified and for the first time in the last 10 years their growth rate has exceeded 26.1%) the rate of credit growth of the approved population. Credits to companies in 2006 increased by 16.2 billion kuna, which is more than their cumulative increase in the last three years. At the end of the year, loans granted to businesses exceeded 78 billion kuna, and if used wisely, they can become initiators of future economic growth. If the use of the credit enables it to be returned and to achieve some additional value, then credits are bearers and drivers of development. In this respect, it is certainly important, and this is also a fundamental element of the activities of the Croatian National Bank to slow down borrowing abroad and encourages lending from domestic capital sources. It is certain that some, and some already say that it does not matter where we are in debt, whether abroad or on the domestic money market? That it's a debt. And here I would not agree with such a finding because the domestic market is under the control of the Croatian National Bank. We can influence it through the measures of our domestic monetary policy, regardless of what most of the banking capital is owned by foreign governments because they operate under conditions and within our legal frameworks. With the conclusion that the objectives set before the Croatian National Bank have therefore reached a stable exchange rate, an acceptable level of inflation has been maintained and a stable interest on loans can be fully accepted by the proposed Croatian National Bank report. However, here I would refer to the results of the survey on consumer confidence, expectations and moods that the Croatian National Bank is working on according to the European Commission methodology. It is a characteristic trend of trust growth since 2005 and in 2006, citizens' trust when the survey is conducted every month and in terms of the overall economic situation in Croatia as well as in respondents personally and in their household. There is an increase in optimism, confidence and the mood of citizens, which is another proof that our government is leading Croatia in a good direction, towards stable economic development and a general personal improvement of citizens on their way to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91342	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91343	Annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2006. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. The Annual Report of the CNB for 2006 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for and 2 abstentions and 6 against the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91344	We're moving on to the next one. It is: - Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2006 — Proposer Hamag In accordance with Article 15. The Small Economy Encouragement Act The Croatian Small Economy Agency submitted that report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was held by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Tomislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91345	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, by virtue of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, it is my duty to submit a report to this esteemed institution and I am pleased to say that our personal business is the issue of guarantees for entrepreneurial loans in 2006 compared to the year before has grown almost double. Thus, during this period, the agency issued 174 guarantees of more than 145 million kuna, allowing direct investments in the Croatian economy of more than 374 million kuna. The most guarantee has been issued in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County, which is particularly satisfying because these are the counties covered by the war. The largest number of guarantees are issued under the agriculture programme, which is certainly due to the operational programmes that the Croatian Government has adopted, and this is about the operational programme for livestock production, for the operational programme of permanent crops, for the production of Slavonian cuisine and other operational programmes. In addition to this agency in the past year, it signed agreements with the three largest banks in the Republic of Croatia which, having one broader meaning, has been taken into account that in the past few years, the agency has had reduced activity in 2002, 2003 and 2004, and in that period the banks and entrepreneurs may say canceled, cancelled the Agency's cooperation by signing an agreement with these three large banks and a total of 21 banks in Croatia means a lot to us because it means that we have managed to restore trust, trust in the work of this institution and both banks and entrepreneurs. With guarantees issued by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship last year, we were entrusted with the implementation of two projects of grants support. These are projects of the student cooperative and the student company and the project of encouraging civilian groups, which is consistent with the government's intensities of the Republic of Croatia that all support will eventually go from one place to another. So we gave four and a half million kunas to Croatian entrepreneurs per these two grants. I would further point out that we have expanded our network of consultants so that at this point we have 58 consultants. They are, it is important to point out that this network is still expanding, especially for areas that are not yet economically attractive enough to ensure that entrepreneurs have full entrepreneurship infrastructure in these areas as well. So, if such activity is to be done by a business adviser, or a consultant that does not have to go further or not to leave his county. In addition, we held a series of workshops, a series of seminars because our basic activity is, as I said, along with the issue of guarantees and the development of entrepreneurial infrastructure, so that these good results can be praised, here they can also show how graphic growth in business over the past few years is certainly not only the merit of the new administration that has been appointed, but also the merits of the Croatian Government programme, i.e. the infrastructure and economic policy that the Croatian government has set up towards entrepreneurship. I'd like to talk about my report so much. I'm at your disposal for questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91346	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91347	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kovacevic, Secretary of State. Well, I think we've heard a lot of data here. I'll say some more things. Namely, the Croatian Small Entrepreneurship Agency came from the Croatian Guarantee Agency, and the Croatian Guarantee Agency was founded there at the end of the mandate of the previous Government with the aim of giving guarantees to economic operators who cannot guarantee the loans themselves. That would be very convenient if they were good conditions. However, the conditions were such that none of the businessmen could almost get a guarantee. Clearly, guarantees were extremely necessary. I remember a series of examples. Let's just say people made a hall, they got in charge, and they didn't have any more money for machines. Normally, they needed a guarantee to go the same way as those who bought the land and didn't have any knowledge of agricultural machinery and the like. HAMAG is a qualitative leap in relation to the guarantee agency, especially because of the simplification of conditions and expansion of activity. However, it is 2006. It should be noted that there were twice as many demands as in 2005. Therefore, the momentum of entrepreneurship and entry into the world of entrepreneurship and those who alone could not, as well as credit to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which promotes and promotes entrepreneurship, co-finances the communal equipment of economic zones and generally creates positive conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. It is interesting that the most accepted requirements this time refer to a programme of agriculture for family farms which is not surprising to me, because in time, the agriculture ministries sent young agronoms that were on the stock market. We gave them space in municipalities and cities, we equipped them with an office, and it worked very well. People are used to going there for advice and no wonder that's exactly what that number is. It seems that the problems of trade capital are significantly smaller, because I know in my time that all the craftsmen were saying that they had no capital because only two demands were for that purpose. I have to admit, that's a positive surprise for me. The estimated 500 million kunas are now covering demands. Payment guarantee normally that I pay the guarantee had to be because all entrepreneurs couldn't repay the loan. However, some from 2005 and 2006 are seen in these dozens of requests. For now, it's a small asset. This year, here's a million-and-a-half kuna. By expanding the activities of HAMAG has surpassed the guarantee agency and new projects should be particularly highlighted. For example, a project of grants to target groups. Let us remember the great interest of these groups especially for women entrepreneurs, for beginner entrepreneurs, young people, persons with disabilities, education project and development of a network of consultants for a small economy. Without consultants, we really had entrepreneurs coming to our door, asking. We've been sending them as far as we can, but with the development of this network of consultants, I think a series of things have been simplified. The consultants have become necessary by helping businesses to develop elaborates, demands, information, about the possibility of obtaining credit and guarantees, which is well accepted. HAMAG has quality agreements with banks and good international co-operation. That's what we saw from the report. We should point out normal and good cooperation with entrepreneurship centres because people at least look at us often address the entrepreneurship center and that age of necessary information. In addition to all of this, it should be pointed out that HAMAG’s growth in business has been recorded for the second year in a row. We also see that the Ministry of Economy, Labour, entrepreneurship, finance, agriculture, forestry, water economy, sea, tourism, transport and development. A lot of words, and only four ministries, is that they supported this report and the same report will be supported by the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91348	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative, Dorotea Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report from the HAMAG which we can say came in time, unlike those of the previous two, and together with other reports from other financial institutions dealing with, of course, support and financing small and medium-sized enterprises. The criticisms we have referred to in previous reports have been partially and partially respected, and as seen in a certain way in the changed strategy and direction both in the Agency's activities and in the drawing up of the report itself. It is clear that the existence of an agency under this name has progressed slowly since 2003, but the fact remains that it can be faster and better because there are problems in our economy, of course, and problems need to be solved quickly and efficiently. The question arises whether enough on the side of the agency has been made to unblock 25,000 companies with a debt of 12 and a half billion kuna, and those, as we know, have at least one employee. So, at that point, 25,000 of them don't get paid. I'm also wondering what the agency is doing in tracking how much trade or businesses open or close each year, how many of them are blocked, how much money it is, and what's most important is what's causing it all. Which seems to be developing female entrepreneurship, since women are mostly unemployed and also paid for the same job compared to men. Here we see the report on page 28 of funding or requests submitted by certain target groups, women, beginners, young people with disabilities, but it seems to me to be too little of 3 and a half million kuna for all these target groups. The same question is whether HAMAG is monitoring the number of unemployed in Croatia. Because if he does, then he knows that according to the Employment Service, the average number of unemployed in 2006 was 291 thousand 616 unemployed. Of which 175 thousand and 97 women. And that's why I'm saying, since it only got 210 women's support here that it's a very small number compared to these unemployed. And 116 thousand 519 men. Do you, as a state institution, have answers to who, when and how will create the conditions for the large number of unemployed to be employed? These are actually crucial issues that need to be tackled. Although you might say you're just a financial institution I don't think you can isolate yourself from these problems we have. We in the IDS have always advocated decentralisation and even regional development, and points out in a way and criticism to HAMAG for abolishing the Split branch. It seems to me that they were to be founded, or formed in other counties, and not this one was to be abolished. The excuse to work well with regional development agencies is not good for me, as in that logic, HAMAG should then be abolished because there is a Regional Development Fund that could do the same job. But that's not the case, so all of our regions, we know for ourselves that they are different and should have every programme of development and funding. And this is evident from the fact that there was not enough account being taken of the unemployed on the one hand and the needs of the economy for labour on the other hand, by structure, school preparation, age. But most importantly, all of it, but by county, because these data can certainly be used as a guideline to support programs, where guarantees and money will be directed. On the other hand, I would like to know whether user feedback is being monitored to determine how much work has increased directly, how much production has increased or how much services have increased, or how much overall business performance has increased. I also want to know how much HAMAG has prepared for the issue of guarantees of micro-regional character projects and how much HAMAG will be able to monitor these projects until regional instruments are able to fit and stalk. There are still some segments that should be important and should be worked on. First of all, an even better education because the activities and educations that HAMAG representatives have depends on how much these create a business climate, because we need a lot more energy and energy for such a thing. Secondly, as I said before about decentralisation and regionalisation, a network of offices should be created that would be in constant contact with other institutions and much greater promotional activity. Thirdly, there needs to be greater and better cooperation with other financial institutions, so not only with HABOR, it means with all other banks, and it needs to create conditions so that not everyone is guided and engaged in their own policies, but that they all have one policy towards entrepreneurship. Fourthly, it should be included in the process of adopting every regulation concerning the economy, and I also propose that HAMAG be involved in the development of the Regional Development Strategy. Here, given that this report is much better than the previous two, I hope you will take these remarks as well as well-intentioned and that you will respect them and apply them, which is certainly in the interest of all present and future businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91350	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative of Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91351	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, Director. I will begin with something he wrote, that is, what Minister Kalmeta signed on behalf of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. I'll quote it. He wrote: "By looking at the report in question, it could be generally said that it was also written quite self-affirmatively.". I think he's saying enough about everything, no matter what happens after that, Mr. Calmeta and the government have supported this report as a whole. It seems to me that we're still saying that everything is fine, that everything is great than it really is. It seems to me that when we talked about the previous two reports that the problem is that we set ourselves up quite a low base, quite a low scale, and then these indices that we're talking about here are extremely high. So obviously we can't say that we have too many demands for a guarantee. We're here to boast that 58% higher guarantee requirements compared to the previous year. That can't be satisfactory. Both personally and on behalf of the SDP club, I must say that this cannot be enough in such an economic and economic situation and with this number of unemployed persons held by the Republic of Croatia. The same thing that the Agency itself is not to blame is the imbalance of the number of guarantees allocated per county. This, unfortunately, shows that the development of certain counties is also seriously delayed, serious helmets and that the network of consultants should be expanded rather than stalled. And regardless of what my predecessors said, regardless of cooperation with regional and other agencies dealing with the development of the economy, it is certain that the network of consular services should continue to be provided by the HAMAG itself because even then there will be a significant growth and quality of the economy. Likewise, when we look at and there is imbalance in the structure of legal persons, or according to legal registration, we can say that we are satisfied if we invest a lot in agriculture. And that is one of the objectives of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. But I personally also worry about us at the SDP club that there are insufficient numbers and those companies, first of all, and crafts, because then, because for them too, there should be a lot more guarantees that mean that we have new trades and new economic operators that will improve our picture of unemployment. Another thing I want to point out, and when we look at it, these are some concrete economic projects, or projects that are being discussed in this report. The fact is that when we look at the guarantee programme for areas of special national interest, only 16 guarantees are granted. By the way, I'm asking you a question on the right-hand side of me, which is with the law, with the new law that this government has subsequently announced, the Law on Areas of Special State Interest, unfortunately nothing has changed yet and we have, we can say we have a bright picture in Vukovar-Srijem County that has sent a large number of requests and received a large number of guarantees. However, as with other areas of special state concern, it certainly cannot be a blame and do not take this as any guilt but as a wish for HAMAG to be far stronger and more active in areas of special state concern, because then it will be a guarantee that people there will not move away from one side, that we will not have a weak agriculture, a poor economy because there are certainly people in these areas who want to engage in dangerous waters of entrepreneurship. I would like to hear what are the reasons that there is a network of consultants smaller, and the requirements and the need for employment is far greater than, for example, in the counties of northwestern Croatia. For example, in Varazdin County where I come from, there are two development agencies dealing with consulting services. There is no reason to mean that HAMAG as an institution does not help to establish a network of consulting institutions and outside means specifically I think of eastern Croatia and I especially think of the Lika-Senj County in which they certainly do not have enough quality economy and are calling for jobs. Someone said before me that we have great demands, that the great interest of the government is for new entrepreneurs. But when we look at it with guarantees, it makes it seem like it's not following that idyllic image. If only 33 guarantees are issued, then something says that there are too few new entrepreneurs and that this should go far faster. A special story regardless of those steps that quality contracts have been concluded with some business banks, but a special picture I would refer to seems to me that over 60% of the guarantees have been issued by HAMAG to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This justifies the existence of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but the question of what business banks do and the very essence of their business that should go towards entrepreneurs is very little. I wish the director would tell us what problems these are in business with banks, no matter what we have big banks that signed contracts with HAMAG, why there are no more contracts with them. Because apparently they're not transferring their payload to entrepreneurs but to us as citizens, because it's probably easier to charge, and there's bigger profits. There's less danger of losing his money. These are just some of the suggestions, so it should be fixed in the next period compared to last year when there were also a lot of problems. But I stress, in this country, if we want more new employees, if we want even more entrepreneurs, if we want to have a better economy, a bigger economic growth, then we need to put that scale quite definitely more because these indices can be encouraged and they are not disputed that these indices are growing in the business of HAMAG, you know that when you have something 100% bigger, 60% higher, it sounds pompous, but the start is too low. We therefore expect that in this year's report these results, these data will be far better than they are now. I'd like to look back at the principal if he told us the same thing, and it seems to me that I've read that only two requests were for trade capital. What's the reason, and we know that our craftsmen, our little entrepreneurs are crying out for trade capital. It may be a problem of criteria that are too high in this segment, but there is now a possibility that the state and government if they want to help small entrepreneurship go with, that maybe a little loose these criteria that we have a better picture and that we have a lot more jobs through this then. Given the improvements that have come and the SDP club will support this report, however, I am stressing and ending this. So let's set a scale even more and even better, then the results will be far better and then we'll have the satisfaction of having more new jobs based on the guarantees issued by HAMAG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91352	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear members of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2006, which shows that the guarantee potential of the agency was 500 million kuna, which is being renewed in a way that gives rise to the relative repayment of credit, the committed assets are being released and become part of the entire guarantee potential again. The State Small Economy Agency, a state institution aimed at fostering the development of an economy that includes the establishment and promotion of small economy entities, the promotion of investments, the issuing of guarantees, the approval of... support, monitoring and analysis and other professional activities including all forms of cooperation with domestic and foreign institutions that encourage entrepreneurship. A large presence on the ground was provided by the agency through very good co-operation with regional development agencies and regional centres throughout the Republic of Croatia. During 2006, the agency signed business co-operation agreements with the largest banks in the Republic of Croatia. In 2006, a 201 guarantee application was received which was 58% higher than last year, and the amount of the loan requested for the guarantee was 311 million kuna, which is twice as much compared to last year. This is all about one living thing right here in this part of the economy. The most accepted requirements relate to the agricultural guarantee programme, 106 requests, which is 53% of the total number of applications received, providing 173 million kuna of credit funds. In particular, I would refer to an area of special state interest from which only 20 requests were received, or 10% for the total amount of credit of only 23 million kuna. I think it is really one problem that has been mentioned earlier and my colleagues and that both HAMAG and HABOR and other state institutions have had to engage more in this area, I will say exactly one area in my county, meaning the Okucani municipality in which people from 132 parishes from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who live in houses where Serbs, who can't buy these houses, have no property, have both entrepreneurship, ideas and spirit, but really have nothing to bet or invest to start an economy. I think that the government should consider that, I will now by heart say from this potential of HAMAG that it is targeted to go to such areas with at least 35 to 40% of the total potential, so if there is not enough demand from such areas then it is going to go to other areas of the Republic of Croatia, because in this way our areas in Slavonia will never reach the rest of Croatia because it is evident that such areas are lagging on average behind more and more and more developed parts of Croatia. For these reasons, I find it justified to go and give much more support, but also with some guarantees and 100%, not 50 or 55, or I don't know how much more, how much is it now. If we look at the structure of the creditor requirements received, we will easily see that over half of the request is sent from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with over 60 per cent share of the total amount of credit and planned investment. The average amount of individual credit in 2006 was EUR 550 000, with an average interest rate of 4,76% minus the subsidy granted by the Community. The average approved guarantee in 2006 amounted to 830 thousand kuna, i.e. 54% of the principal loan. From the review of the structure of approved guarantees to creditors 109 guarantees were granted for loans via the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development amounting to 181 million kuna. During 2006, creditors sent 10 claims to the agency for the payment of guarantees from which the agency made 7 decisions to pay up to a million 450 thousand kuna. From the review of the applications received for payment of a total of 10 applications received, 3 applications were submitted for guarantees for which credit assets were invested in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, as well as Sibenik-Knin and Sisak-Moslavina by two payment requests. The requirements for payment of guarantees received in 2006 in the Agency are mainly due to the fact that the creditor for different health, material and other reasons was not able to pay off liabilities by credit or to repay funds paid by the guarantees issued. Based on the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 16 March 2006, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has been designated as the holder of the project entrepreneurship of target groups as an integral part of the operational plan for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises for 2006, and the implementation of the project itself is entrusted to the Croatian small economy agency. The aim of this project is to increase the involvement of target groups, youth, women, beginners, disabled and others, and in entrepreneurship through the grant of grants for the use of education and professional assistance to consultants for the activities of certain criteria of the project itself. It is very commendable that in 2006 HAMAG participated in the creation and addition of the European Charter for Small Economy and the participation of HAMAG in the project team together with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the development of projects for the use of the pre-accession fund. Finally, it should be said that for the second year of the second year, the Croatian Agency for Small Economy has consistently recorded business growth and that with such HAMAG we will be easier to enter into the period of accelerated adaptation of the conditions of business of the European economy. This report should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91354	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91355	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable representative of the government, the esteemed chairman of the administration, Mr. Kovacevic. Any progress in the Croatian small economy agency is welcome and should be supported as such, but also preferably improved. Small-scale operators account for 99% of the total number of economic operators. They are the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. In the small economy, about 55% of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy are employed, which means they make a significant share of the gross domestic product. However, the rate of regional unemployment remains very high and is around 16%, not to mention large differences in the county from 6% to 7% unemployed in Istria County up to 20% in as many as 11 counties, and up to one county unemployment is growing to a sad 30.6% and this is the biggest early economy in the Republic of Croatia that requires not only a recovery, but also a turning towards new ideas and programmes, a copy of good in Europe and in the world of well-known projects to projects from the Istrian County that can be transferred to other counties in Croatia. I'll just say a few examples. The Istrian County has established, among other things, an Istrian Development Agency for IDA which, for its existence, does not use any kuna from the budget, either from municipal, urban or county budgets, and so far over 550 entrepreneurial projects have been implemented through the Istrian Development Agency with around 650 million kuna loans to entrepreneurs. The Istrian County developed a regional operational plan, developed a programme of entrepreneurial zones, a master plan for tourism development, which is the cornerstone of the development of tourism for the future of Istria. The Istrian County has launched a consortium for Istra 21 guarantees, which is an excellent help for new entrepreneurs who have good projects and programmes, but do not have enough guarantees of their own that have come across great support. Among other things, these are just some of the projects that have raised the Istrian County to the very top of its rural development in the Republic of Croatia with the lowest unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia, so the same or similar programmes should be passed on to all of Croatia. However, when we talk about this report by HAMAG, which is ahead of us, I repeat any progress to encourage the development of a small economy is welcome. But here I would like to say that I support the position of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which assesses the useful participation of representatives of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the work of the Management Board of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. Since it is a state bank which is also the most significant partner of HAMAG. In 2006, HBOR loans were followed by HAMAG guarantee, with over 60% in the total amount of loans and planned investments. Therefore, on the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, I proposed that a representative of the HBOR enter the Management Board of the HAMG which was not accepted for the reason it was said among other things because there are 11 members already in the Management Board, and it is not necessary to increase it. I personally did not mention or think that there was an increase in the number of board members but the question of the purpose of similarity is to appoint as many as 4 members from the same state body in this case of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. I know those four members remained in the early formation of three ministries, but now the ministry is united and there is no need for four members, but it would certainly be worth having HBOR have one member. That's what we're saying here, we've opened the controversy Mr. Assistant Minister and I on the Committee on the Economy. Because I'm saying, HBOR's experience in the problem of lending to small-scale entrepreneurs and projects and their projects would certainly contribute to better designing the HAMAG's accompanying programmes. Someone's gonna say there might be a conflict of interest here. However, when we know that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is founded precisely for such projects and that the economy is raised in the Republic of Croatia to the level that Croatia deserves, then I must say that there should be no question of conflict of interest here. I am pleased that the results of the business of the Croatian small economy agency achieved twice as much as the previous year, which means in 2006, 174 guarantees amounting to more than 145 million kuna were issued, allowing about 375 million kuna investment in the Croatian economy, which is good. However, I personally think that any progress in promoting the development of the small economy is welcome and as such should be supported and possibly improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91356	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, at this late hour, I had no intention of taking my word for it, however, I was offered some debate here about the work of HAMAG, so here I am, saying a few sentences about it. First of all, there's a whole objective I'd say life's true report which, by the way, is affirmative, why not. And when it's on duty, I'm the director who runs that agency, so it's just affirmative. I'd take that as a compliment, not a flaw. So why wouldn't this report be affirmative among other things? And there's a lot of reasons for that. We just heard some of the reasons here. It particularly bothers me when we're trying to hurt something that's worth it, which is good and we've seen it work in reality. I had the opportunity as deputy mayor back in 1997 after "The Storm," and then I led the firm to see what it means when on the ground there is no way of resolving credits for those who do not have enough guarantees for it. And that is why we have waged heavy wars in areas of special state care, wars under quotes with a guarantee agency that was rigid, which did not understand the situation in these areas and which simply kept in their positions more rigid than the business banks themselves. And so it's unusually important what's been done over these two years, which is that the trust of the entrepreneurs in HAMAG is restored. HAMAG now acts and works as a stopper, not as a brake. And look at the wonders, Hamag also has grants. So we got a new dimension of HAMAG, which we definitely appreciate very much from the field of special state care. Why does HAMAG cooperate most with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? It makes sense to me and I'm happy about it. I am happy that, first of all, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has the least interest, the best conditions of lending, and it is normal that the HAMAG, which is also the Government Agency, is working with the HBOR in order to address those problems that will not be solved by business banks, business banks. You know how hard it is to come to a business bank today if your project had any suspicious grounds, the bank won't have anything to do with it. And so it's not good, it's not fair to talk about that HAMAG should force and in some way try to encourage business banks to work with it. Hamag doesn't have those tools. He can't do that. The business bank is a story to itself. That's what we were just listening to in the agenda point in front of this, when we said that 94% of the banks were in foreign private hands. So the business banks have their logic and that's why HBOR and HAMAG were founded so that their business logic would try to disrupt us in some way. And that's why I'm gonna be done. I will not only support this report but also congratulate the director on the success he has achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91358	Thank you. In conclusion, Tomislav Kovacevic, president of the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91359	Thank you very much. Here, my closing word, I'm going to say that this affirmatively which is so mentioned, I'm going to have to apply it here and now in the closing word. He'd just look back at a few comments. Namely, both criticism and praise, I also see it as affirmative and therefore thank the distinguished MPs in their words. And I'll just look back at some data. That you can do better and that you can move faster I know you can, and I know how you can. However, I was met by a very bad start. Just before I showed that chart that shows, says that in 2003 2 million and 700 thousand kuna were issued, last year 145 million kuna guarantees were issued. So we won't talk about percentages. That it's affirmative and what we signed with the banks I've already said in my real work, so I won't say it again. But here's some details. Croatia Thank God develops its economy evenly and the best indicator for this is... A index that says for the past year that every 12 entrepreneurs are sorry for every 12 residents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A year earlier, three years earlier, there were every 45 entrepreneurs, every 45 citizens a single entrepreneur, and unfortunately there were every 100 citizens in Slavonia. Today, too, Slavonia is 12, 12 citizens, one entrepreneur. So let's not be ashamed of the affirmative speech. That he can do better, but I think he can aphimaticly encourage us even more. As far as trade capital is concerned, it's a good part if it's not through our guarantees it's well solved through the Ministry of Economy project. It's a local development project... These were loans that you knew and they went through business banks where up to 50% of the funds could be used for permanent crafts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also know it, and it's fresh news back in the 20 days that he started a microcredit project. It means that the Ministry of Economy at local levels with counties will create a project where microcredit will be issued locally, within a very short time. It has also not been pointed out that in the last 3 years I would say, 3 and a half or 4 years that 70,000 jobs have been opened, and this year by the end of the year only in entrepreneurship areas will be about 40,000 jobs. I don't need to mention that, and entrepreneurship zones are the project of the Ministry of Economy which it encourages so that I simply want to say that it is surrounded by one whole just like the circled total what the esteemed representative said why HAMAG gave the most guarantee for, for the loans of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development? So because the government has just implemented its operational programmes through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and means it has hit. It means it hit the core. It hit the goal that there was a lot of interest there, and since, according to the agriculture programme, it was mostly logical that these rural areas there were and needed the most guarantees. So I believe that these results that have been achieved, which we can talk about is 100% small because there is 200% and 300%, but I said I know you can do more and I know how much more. Here, too, for the end, only Mr. Representative Poropat would refer to their local, local development agency, which we work well with. But here I think that one, one had a gap, and that agency also uses budget funds as well because the Ministry of Economy has a programme that has entrusted us this year, given that we are strategically related to, for the development of, therefore, these local agencies. So this project is being implemented by local agencies and entrepreneurship centres this year and I will also believe that "IDA" has good programmes, and I think we will also support this year, by some means, the development of that agency. So much for me. I would ask this esteemed House to support the report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency for 2006 because it will be another affirmation for us to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91360	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing today's session. Tomorrow it will continue at 9:30 with a 6th agenda – a proposal to launch a trust issue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-27-0.u91361	Report on the business of the Croatian small economy agency for 2006. I am voting on the next conclusion of the 2006 Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency (HAMAG). Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 8 abstentions and 4 against accepted proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the session and debate on - The proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole - Proposer of 33 MPs The proposal to launch trust was submitted by 33 MPs. You've received the proposal in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered a statement. Proposer representatives want to take the floor. On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
