ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here is the final proposal of the Health Safety Quality Act after the first reading. I want to thank this moment all those who supported this Law in their first reading. Here are 3 abstentions and 102 votes for. Thank you very much. This means that we are on a really good path, a path where we want to actually improve our health system's quality and, of course, equalize ourselves with those highest European standards. Continuingly so I will not say for the last decades, I will say for a very, very long time in Croatia, actually from the period of Andrija Printar we say that the health system must be directed towards the patient, that the patient must be at the centre of attention, that patients have the right to co-determination, but also have the right to the visibility of health data. That is why a legislative framework is needed, a framework that will in some way regulate all these needs, a framework that would in principle equalise itself with the legislative framework that exists today in 16 European Union countries. Let me give them a bit of a tax on purely for the sake of illustration to actually see which countries have such a law on the quality of health care. Great Britain since, we can now say, in 1990, Finland, Spain, the Czech Republic, Poland, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, Ireland, Germany, Bulgaria, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Lithuania and here, since 2006, Austria, the country with which we have also started working together on this Law. There may also be an opportunity here, so in our Croatian Parliament, to thank the former Minister Maria Raukalat, who is also our origin with whom we have actually made two laws together, both in Austria and in Croatia. The legislative framework for promoting and improving the quality of healthcare will allow the assessment of the results of the treatment to be taken into account in the effectiveness of the health system on each of its segments. It will also make it possible to establish an even more professional quality system. What does that really mean? This means that we have clearly defined goals that we want to achieve, which are efficiency, availability, safety, full patient orientation, objective measurement and visibility. And all of what I've actually said may be best illustrated on some concrete examples that are here to make it easy to understand everyone and those who will actually study in detail or who have already studied this Law, but also those to whom it actually applies, which is practically 4 and a half million citizens in Croatia who will eventually request health care. Take, for example, the operation of gallstones. It is today a routine operation that is practically done in all our acute hospitals. But the fact is that right now we don't have any visible data on how long, for example, the post-operative course after one such operation today can say banal surgery takes place in different hospitals. Today, we do not have data on how many days an individual is on average after a certain operation, in this case bile bladder surgery, or bile stones. How many percent of us have infections after I repeat the so-called. banal surgery, unless any surgery is banal and every operation carries a certain risk. The percentage of repeated and unplanned procedures and ultimately how many, for example, the percentage of patients with certain complications after release from the hospital are returned to the hospital. This is actually just some of the so-called. Indicators. These indicators are extremely significant, they are here today, as I have said, being followed principally in 16 countries of the European Union and soon as ours, so our parts of the health system begin to follow these indicators we will first be able to compare ourselves with each other, but also with others. Then we will actually see really how much we are worth to the countries of the European Union towards these 16 countries, but also to countries outside Europe, which are Canada, the United States or Australia. And I'll tell you that here's some preliminary, and of course we did some simulations before we put this law and here in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure, they show that we will be pleasantly surprised especially with our centres of excellence, because definitely what we are doing in Croatia today is largely at an enviable level, which ultimately shows better epidemiological data that we all witness in Croatia. When we talk about quality indicators, of course they actually have to be, to meet a few basic criteria. What does that mean? That means they're available, they're measurable, they're acceptable, of course they're adaptable. Why? So because standards are constantly changing, they're getting bigger and bigger and these parameters have to be such that they'll naturally adapt to what we want, and that's always better. When we have one day, and that will be very soon, because at the end of the work we are therefore a complete project related to these parameters that will be monitored, then we will be able to talk about something that has been discussed in a culturally long time, and that is standardisation, for example. our hospitals. What does that really mean? This means that one procedure, one procedure, one method, one way of treatment will be standardised practically in all our hospitals. This is something we want to insist on today, it is something that will ultimately make us internationally acceptable, and what is very important is I persistently believe that Croatian health care can become even more competitive even though it is currently on the list of competitiveness at the very top in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this competitiveness will mark something else, which is that as today, as our dentists on the Adriatic coast attract actually foreign guests, tourists, offers them a certain service, it is not excluded that our hospitals not only along the Adriatic coast but also throughout Croatia for recognition, because of standardisation and quality system today-to-morrow will attract people who will be treated in Croatia. Of course this is primarily for our own sake, for the sake of the citizens of Croatia and for us, ultimately, who are here. There was a lot of talk about something called categorization. You see those who, of course, do not know the system, who have not entered its core, have persistent belief that categorization of hospitals can be carried out by an administrative act. I've had this opportunity to talk to people who, in the early 1980s, had created a rule on the categorization of hospitals in the former state, I believe there aren't really a lot of people who know about this data and who have therefore read that rule, a rule that was administratively trying to categorize hospitals. That rule never came back to life. Why? Well, it's impossible to evaluate something administrative and say you have to be like that, and you have to be like that. It's impossible to do. You must have objective indicators based on which you will perform categorization of the hospital and what is called a prerequisite for categorization, which is accreditation. So if you're doing something within some of the defined standards, you become recognized. When you have multiple parts that are recognized, then you actually get something that can be valorized, and that valorization is called categorization. And that's why this law has to live and function in order to get to what we're talking about here again, I'm going to say cool, because of course there wasn't really a shift, and that's categorization of hospitals. In the end, it's just a word or two. So the point is to introduce a comprehensive system of control, to introduce a comprehensive standardisation of all our parts of health care that is being provided today and, above all, our institutions, to work continuously and to improve this quality, to introduce accreditation standards that will naturally be very demanding, but which will mark the international visibility of Croatia and Croatian health care and, of course, to actually open a really new chapter for Croatian medicine and a new chapter for health care in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95207	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95208	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed this final draft of the law and, in addition to the amendments that we are about to read now, agreed to go into today's debate and to accept it as such. We have nine amendments. The first amendment states in Article 9 that the word "clinically" is deleted for the reason that it practically extends to all rather than just clinical institutions. Amendment 2 in Article 10(2), following the words "institutions and companies" is replaced by the words "institutions, companies and private health workers". Therefore, the provision of the article is in line with the definition of the health operator referred to in Article 3(3) of the final proposal of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Quality Insurance Committee is replaced by the words "Internal Affairs Committee" that is because we, under the Health Protection Act, already have organized internal supervision in health institutions, and only now we give it additional powers. Amendment 4 refers to the establishment of a committee in a medical institution with up to 400 sick beds. The commission shall consist of 5 members of which at least one member of a medium professional or more prepares and one representative of a patient association. The members of the commission other than the members of the representatives of the patient associations must be health workers. Exceptionally referred to in Article 1 of this Article, in a health institution over 400 beds on each of the second 200 beds, the commission has another member. Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Director for 4 years, and the President of the Commission shall be the Assistant Director for the Quality of Health Care. Amendment 5. in Article 14(1), the following words: "other healthcare professionals" are deleted because we propose an amendment to subparagraph 4 below: "participating in external quality checking" is deleted: "other healthcare professionals" because of the current stimulation of subparagraph 4 is the entirely unclear intention of the applicant. Amendment 6 in Article 19(2), the words "decease or confiscation" shall be added to the words "decrease or confiscation". In this way, the obligation to notify, deny, withdraw accreditation at the expiry of the time limit given. Amendment 7 in Article 24(1), the new subparagraph 4, which reads as follows: "Proposes the Minister of Quality of Health Care Standards at the level of primary health care". The current sub-paragraph 7 that becomes sub-paragraph 8. adds a new subparagraph 9 which reads as follows: "supervises health insurance standards". Amendment 8 speaks of the composition of members of the Board of Directors where the Committee proposes that the administrative board have 7 members, of which one of the representatives of the Ministry, one of the representatives of the Croatian Medical Chamber, one of the representatives of the Chamber of Health, one of the representatives of the Associations of Patients, one of the primary health care representatives, one of the representatives of hospital health care and one of the representatives of specialists in the field of public health. In paragraph 2, a new paragraph 3 is added, which reads "that the President of the Governing Council is a representative of the Ministry". Amendment 9 is also about the regulation in the penalty, in Article 39, in the amount of 10 thousand to 15 thousand kuna is replaced by the words "in the amount of 5 to 10 thousand kuna". Therefore, there has been a reduction in these criminal provisions, along with these amendments, which I have proposed on behalf of the Committee, the Committee proposes that this final proposal for a health care quality law be adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95209	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95210	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a health care quality law, one of the fundamental laws that regulates health care, and which comes to us, I would now say after all the previous laws and sublegal acts that were a prerequisite for the adoption of such a law. We like to say that many and critically, that this Law should have been passed earlier, I think this is exactly the right moment because we have matured all the conditions, namely, the consolidated financial spirit of health care, that is, that is, brought into order all the laws and sublegal acts, we have good cooperation of the Ministry with chambers, good cooperation with the unions in health, we have a very good quality education in health, undergraduate, postgraduate, we already have developed internal control in our institutions, and it was right now that this law regulates so-called. an external control that guarantees our insurance in the future a much higher level of quality of service to be obtained in our healthcare institutions and offices. The quality of healthcare is I would say in medicine and healthcare already a historical category because since the introduction of health services is supervised their quality. Clearly throughout history it has been regulated differently, today we have a situation that most countries have regulated it by specific laws, that especially there are quality strategies, the quality itself is shared, it is now a professional part of the exposure, to the internal and external. It is the internal one that organizes the institutions themselves and is regulated by our existing health care law, but it should certainly be encouraged by this opportunity and even more closely supervised by the ministry and tomorrow by the Agency which is established by this law, because internal control is set up but not fully operational. It involves clinical analyses on each patient, monitoring indicators on the treatment and diagnosis of individual groups of diseases and patients, it requires comparison of pathological findings with clinical diagnosis. It requires the adoption of algorithms for diagnostics and therapy. If they brought the algorithms, then the health care price would decrease by 30% and the quality would increase by 50%. Just to mention one data in the first 6 months of this year, Croatian hospitals increased the cost of medicines by 25%, generally by 20 and health indicators in hospitals that were practically the same. Therefore, rationalisation is one important part of the contribution to the quality of health care and we still have a lot to work on. External quality control has two basic directions one is the quality of the structure and functioning of the non-medical part of the institution, it is achieved with ISO standards and is already a good part of our institutions and our construction units headed this way, we have a whole series of institutions that have these standards. The second part is the one that is passed by this Law that is the control of the quality and structure of the agency that will create accreditation and later categorization of institutions. Why is it time to introduce quality control like this? Because I think although many will not agree that we have solved not everything in our health but many basic problems. This is what the World Health Organization and other international institutions are pointing to, as the Minister of Competitiveness said at the very top, and at the availability of the so-called so-called "The World Health Organization". A group or the best group of states in the world. Also, polls among patients give very high quality, positive assessments, the other thing is with street polls, so potential patients, and polls are always negative from Switzerland to Croatia, unlike those hospital ones who are far more objective because they are people who have experienced a health care service and those polls are always very positive and the reviews they give to both organisations and health professionals are satisfactory, of course they can always be better and should strive for better. What's even more good about us is the profession itself, the medical profession by which we can measure ourselves with all the countries in the world, and I like to say every or at least a vast majority of medical graduates and other health professions can immediately enter a competition anywhere in the world and start working in any health system of any country in the world. The negative things that are ahead of us and which need to be addressed are primarily the unfavourable capacity ratio of health institutions according to the needs, which is of course the consequence of the financial situation, but there are great investments in progress and what is particularly concerned is the number of healthcare professionals, especially the number of doctors in the number of inhabitants, which is why we are among the last in Europe. We have before us the entry into the European Union. We have before us an equalization of the value of a diploma. We have a large exodus of Croatian doctors in other countries. This is what happened in the transition countries that have just entered the European Union, that is what is waiting for us and I warn that this will have a great negative impact on the quality of healthcare unless we take steps in time, and now is the last time to keep doctors in Croatia. Otherwise, we will have to import a medical workforce that is not sufficiently educated because it does not follow world trends in education especially medical staff and other healthcare staff. In this sense, it should be said that the organisation of diagnostics and therapy in Croatia is at a truly envious level. That part of the health care that we need to encourage, and this is exactly what this government has started, and especially this is what the Ministry has given strong incentives to prevent health care. For her, however, much more money needs to be allocated because preventive healthcare is not just an organization, it is not just a profession. It's also funding. It is the best money invested because early diagnosis saves life and naturally releases money that would be spent on late treatment and late diagnosis on other patients. With health indicators, we can be satisfied and I think it is precisely the moment to introduce external, external quality control because health indicators are the ones that say that we have solved the underlying problems anyway. As you know in recent years, health indicators have progressed with the exception of, of course, that period of the Homeland War and shortly after the war when there was a major increase in malignant and cardiovascular diseases. But if we look at the last four years, then we see significantly better indicators, so let's say for a year and a half, the expected life expectancy is 74 and a half to 76 years. So infant mortality was first brought down below 6 to 1,000, from 6.3 to 5.2. So the category of circulatory organ disease that measured the quality of life is generally not just health, reduced from 499 deaths to 100,000 people to 417. Malignant diseases from 214 to 210 died at 100,000, which is a small shift but given the postwar period and the stress that the population has suffered, we are still going towards better indicators. And finally, a great effort to reduce mortality from acute heart disease from 186 to 160 dead to 100,000, shows that the ministry's measures in an acute heart attack have already yielded the first results and, of course, they will only be seen after a few years. Under these circumstances, this law, which is above this whole complex system, gives one drop of safety to patients. It gives the possibility to participate in quality control of all relevant factors and what is most important after certain discussions and amendments to these quality caps, this supreme supervision of the quality of healthcare covers all participants. And primary health care and secondary and tertiary. And public health services. And what is particularly important is covering and therefore overseeing health insurance. This last one is especially important because major changes occur in health insurance. You know that the new HZZO Act is separate from the direct interference of the state administration and is committed to insurance. The reorganisation is ongoing, a complex task but has begun. You know that new amendments to laws or new laws will need to encourage an increase in the number of voluntary insurances. So more and more insurance companies will also be responsible for the quality of health care and it is therefore good that they are covered by this law and placed under a cap that guarantees the safety of our insurance companies. The law itself is very simple. Easily conductive. Sublegal acts are clearly indicated. And the amendments the Committee adopted this morning are such that the HDZ Representatives' Club certainly supports them. We believe this is a significant step in guaranteeing our insurance companies and especially those who are already ill. That in our health institutions they will have more and more quality health care in order to support both this law and the amendments attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95211	Thank you. It's an HSS rep club. Honorable representative Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95212	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Health Care and the Law on the Rights of Patients are a legal basis for quality treatment and respect for the right of patients to a dignified procedure. At the beginning of this term, our health minister promised to conduct categorisation and accreditation in health care as measures to improve quality. Three years later, he said accreditation starts in early 2007. However, it was only in July that the proposal for a quality law was sent to the Assembly by emergency procedure. The professional chambers pointed to a series of failures and did not give a positive opinion on the original text of this proposed law. The reasons were next, and I'm just reminding myself. The law primarily provides for a solution to the establishment of the Agency for the Quality of Accreditation only of the hospital sector, leaving out primary protection, public health, polyclinical, specialist, emergency medical care service, medical work, home treatment and him, which automatically excluded one of the basic principles of quality health care, continuity of treatment from family medicine through hospital to rehabilitation. Today, we have an improved text of the law with partially accepted amendments proposed by professional chambers, and the current text of the Quality Act should cover all parts of the health system. The quality of healthcare is most important for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia precisely because of unwanted events and events in healthcare in recent years, I remind myself of the procedures for compensation for failure to treat 30 million kuna. This Law was to be passed at the beginning of the term of office of this Government. With the question of why this important law is late for three years and remains a further open fundamental issue of how and when this Law will be implemented. It follows from the text of the law that the implementing rules will only follow. Therefore, there are no norms, quality and quality criteria and it is completely unclear on the basis of which this Law will be implemented, and in the system, especially hospitally there are significant differences in infrastructure, equipment, human potential between certain parts of Croatia in the health system. What was it really meant to do to improve quality in health care? We consider, first of all, to agree professional views on standards, quality health care standards in Croatia. Second, to mobilise professional societies and chambers in creating general and special standards for individual areas, to define clinical guidelines for the most frequent procedures. Third, carry out extensive training of experts on the quality improvement programme. Fourth, agree to the order of gradual introduction of the quality standard. Fifth, educate experts to conduct a certain quality assessment. Why is all the above mentioned necessary? First, because of the patients themselves and their safety that in every disease they will be treated equally well no matter where they are located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, professional medical staff gets through clearly defined professional guidelines and safety standards that they have taken all to ensure quality treatment. Third, health institutions have a professional and legal basis to avoid baseless lawsuits and damage claims. Fourthly, in the case of individual errors that are always possible, there is a protocol to resolve the resulting damage. Fifthly, health insurance gets the safety that they paid for quality and professionally justified treatment. The law therefore needs to be passed and the HSS club will support its adoption, but we want to warn at the same time that it is being brought with delay. Similarly, we would not want this Law to happen to the same thing as the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, which was adopted several years ago, but in practice it is clearly not implemented without anyone asking the question of responsibility for it. So this Law can actually be at this point a more promotional action although everyone is aware that it is impossible to implement it in practice over the next two years. This should not have happened because over the past four years there has been enough time to prepare everything necessary for one quality legislative, complete environment to ensure quality health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95213	Thank you. For the SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95214	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The first thesis that we would like to say, in fact, is about the fact that this Final Bill proposal is something better, something more quality than we had in our first reading. However, in our view he still lacks the purpose and purpose of this law that is to be achieved, and in this respect we believe that it should not be passed after this debate, but should be used to make a whole new law. Thirdly, what we would like to say is that within the law there are certain questions that can lead to doubt, even false interpretations, in their interpretations. And fourthly, there are several things that suggest that there can be an interesting connection contrary to the goal that the law wants to achieve, which is the quality of health care for patients. So allow a few examples, for example, of the possibility of a different interpretation. If you take the provision of Article 1 of the Law, it is then said that this Law lays down the principles and system of measures to achieve and improve the comprehensive quality of health care, for quality and accreditation in health, etc., and now, in parallel, at the end of the sentence says everything for insurance and risk reduction in the lives and health of patients. When insurance and reduction are said, so two things cumulatively the first question to be asked is if it is insurance, is it an insurance against the adverse consequences that will result from a risky situation, and if it is why this has not been worked out in the law to see how and how it is provided and who pays the adverse result. Number two, if there is a risk reduction, then the question is what are the additional instruments other than those mentioned here in the law. It is obvious that the planned solution is cumulative and insurance and risk reduction. Even when it comes to measures, it seems that a reduction is achieved, but a risk insurance issue remains. It is not only medically necessary to ensure, but also legal and economic, etc. Another question we would like to note is that when speaking, for example, about the director of the agency, we suddenly come up with a lot of interesting solutions that don't even go away from prescribing to the director of the agency the conditions of a law that must, for example, be laid down by a person who works in the administration so that she can be elected as an advisor to the administration. Namely, the Director is simply said to be named on the basis of a public tender. It is an even more interesting situation regarding the implementation of Article 10(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is said that, very clearly, if in health institutions, or activities in, all healthcare providers who have more than 40 employees, they should have a certain body that needs to ensure the quality of health care, i.e. they should do whether they have a special training unit. But for those who do not have up to 40 employees, which may be, you know, 40 employees is not a small number, under the conditions of modern clinical equipment then medical equipment then specialization etc., they should have a responsible person for quality health care. It's mentioned here and nowhere else. There is no longer any record of what a responsible person can do or what its powers are in relation to the supervision and compliance with the quality of protection or the question which professional and other conditions it must fulfil. Furthermore, we would like to point out in particular, it is a matter of this possible interesting connection. Look, we have a situation that's very interesting. First of all, you have a situation where the board of directors determines the level of costs, with the agreement of the minister, of course, regarding the accreditation procedure. Second. These medical institutions and all other service providers do not have to seek accreditation. They're like voluntary in that approach. But now you have a catch, you would say, in Article 22, in this respect, Article 20, and I'm not counting on volunteering in Article 17 regarding these percentages where it says at 22 that those who get accreditation can get stimulative funds from the office. Or in other words, if you don't take this one, you won't get this one. So it's... volunteering, but that volunteering is legally conditional or if you want these institutions are valued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they don't get it, the difference between money and money won't get it. It's totally inadmissible legally. It is totally inadmissible legally, that on this basis it is prescribed and that the law contains the blackmail of an individual entity, especially from the aspect of its right to volunteer. Second. It is completely wrong from the aspect of the objective that the law aims to achieve, that it is said here that the Croatian Institute of Obligation Health Insurance can stimulate healthcare providers who have raised to a higher level the quality of our patients' health care, which has identified, for example, this commission, etc., or the agency itself, then I would have a completely different view there. But when it's said here it's a condition to get that money if you have accreditation, then it's very serious. It's formal, not content conditions. It has and can have a completely different connotation, even just interpretation. Further, we would like to point out that since we are increasingly introducing these agencies that are practically required to carry out professional work, supervisory work, etc. In place of the authorities of the state administration, they need to make more and more solutions and apply the administrative procedure. Here's the question, you know, it's not just the formal content of a possible dispute, it's the actual content. What happens if no protection is achieved in the appeal procedure based on these administrative procedures in the second instance, and administrative disputes are initiated? Are we even aware that our Administrative Court is essentially for material legal preparation and law enforcement is not... And in such a situation, a very serious question arises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will also have it in the next Company Act where, for example, the agency for the takeover of companies leads according to the administrative procedure of all proceedings. At the same time, of course, if that doesn't work out, there's a question of administrative dispute. And the question is, have we trained the courts for that part? And will we again burden the courts not only with new affairs but also lead to a relatively difficult situation with the judiciary regarding the possible implementation of the reform, in particular for their preparation, education and specialisation in the trial of certain segments that arise as new forms of litigation before that court, not in front of others, such as the Court of Commerce. In particular, it should be pointed out that the additional interest rate appears in the fact that, among other things, it is the source of the Agency’s income and the Administrative Council’s remuneration. Now. If you have the following situation that the administrative board determines the price of the agency's height, whether, determines the price of the cost with the agreement of the minister, that at the same time these institutions may voluntarily report in the process, but if they do not report no compensation. And third, that one of the sources of the agency's income is this fee. And then the members of the board of directors are also determined a special fee for work, and then the question is actually, can they be stimulated to make that price bigger? To the truth of the will as some kind of protection of interest or general interest would appear a minister who would give that consent or not better would be constantly nailed in fact between, and crucified between the interests of the agency and institutions, given that the agency would certainly be interested in making as much compensation as possible because it is a higher income on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the institution or healthcare providers for a minor compensation because this should also provide such a difficult situation, the financial situation in our healthcare institutions and other healthcare providers are, in fact, even more difficult. Furthermore, what we would like to note is that Article 29 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can resolve a member of the Governing Council before the expiry of the time it is appointed in the following cases. And now we'd like to comment on some of those cases that we think aren't really specific, because the law has not given the elements enough. For example, it is said that if the law and other regulations are to be violated by their work more than once. Now, what is considered a serious injury? Come on, it's even more of a violation of regulations, it could be some kind of quantitative, but qualitative decision, no decision. A second question, for example, if it causes damage to the agency by its work. How much and what kind? Nowhere in the law is prescribed. It is further said, in other cases established by law and statute. Now the question is asked, and what, for example, is thought to be under these other cases? Then we have a very interesting situation that the founding rights for this agency, which was founded by this law, are actually carried out by the Government, and then consent to the statute would be given by the Government, and other general acts would have to be given by the Minister under Article 30. I think there's too much actually shared jurisdiction opening up. Of course, in Article 31, it is a particular issue, which we are pleased to have the director of the agency elected or appointed on the basis of a public tender, which is why the public tender is actually held by a permanent choice rather than a appointment, and after the commission has chosen then proposes who to appoint to the Government. Therefore, the electoral commission should have further elaborated. However, there remains a question of what conditions the Agency's director must have. Of course, it is said that the Statute will resolve matters, however, the question is whether the Statute can resolve these issues, given that they are carrying out administrative proceedings and, given that they are properly subject to the Administration Act as well. Further in Article 33, we have again about the Administrative Council when it is able to resolve the Director before the end of time, says again if it causes greater damage to the Agency by its unconscious and irregular work. Again, nothing is said what is more harmful and so on and so forth. Of course, the same is true if he often neglects and unwittingly performs his duties, which results in difficulties in carrying out the activities of the agencies. Now that's quite interesting and over-expanded interpretation. It should therefore be specified. In Article 35, the supervision of the legality of the Agency shall be carried out by the Ministry. It's very interesting that we have indirect and direct surveillance in one segment. I think there should actually be the Ministry's authority here to monitor law enforcement. There's no need just to control the legality of work. There is a questionable situation. A representative of the Ministry shall enter the Administrative Board of the Agency. Now, if he's in charge of the Agency, then he's in charge of himself. And it's again that conflict of interest in which it's quite difficult, which can happen and which is quite difficult then to interpret and bring into harmony. And in Article 42, our last remark is a little more serious, it is said that within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint the President and members of the Administrative Council of the Agency and shall be bound by the Administrative Council of the Agency to adopt the Statute of the Agency no later than, until the day of the Agency's work. Now we've closed the circle to the end. The Statute does not stipulate the conditions for the appointment of the Director or the Administrative Board, for members of the Governing Council, except where they are counted from which the institutions come. And at the same time, it's said that one part of it should work out the statutes with the fact that the statutes don't exist. We'll only bring him in after the administrative council is appointed. Now what we've done is, in fact, by what criteria other than the criteria of volunteerism, we're going to name this administrative council and the director of the agency. It'll be according to how we like it. Then it's no longer a question of competition. It is then a matter of similarity, and in this respect we believe that this law is still unarranged although it is better compared to the first reading and we believe that it should not be brought into this situation, and if it insists on its vote we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95215	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95216	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, today we have before us a law that has a bomb name means the final bill on the quality of health care. The title could immediately interpret how this law seeks to address all the problems that affect Croatian citizens about the quality of health care. Normally, every law needs to be simulated to see if it will ultimately achieve those objectives and effects that are as planned if one law is passed. So I'm going to read one of the countless letters from Croatian citizens that are just talking about this part of the quality of healthcare, Mr. Domagoj Novak, who says: "There were four patients in my room who were treated for stroke, diabetes and angina pectoris. The government was principled as well. These 4 patients do not have a pension of more than two thousand kuna, but to live they must buy medicines and now specify medicines for diabetes 165 kuna, for the heart of 175 kuna plus VAT. For heart and pressure 85 kuna plus VAT. For blood vessels circulation 99.71 kuna plus VAT. For pain relief 20 kuna plus VAT. For heart function 30 kuna plus VAT and monthly appointments for medicines 30 kuna plus VAT. I had a chance to watch and listen to a 70-year-old man cry. He says, "Here's when I pay the directorship and when I buy the medicines mentioned, I'm not able to buy a liter of milk and a kilo of bread." If you don't believe this confession of mine, try to conduct a survey of the patients mentioned in these diseases and you'll get the real truth about people's troubles. If Dr. Andrija Stamper heard this, he'd probably be dead in his grave. Here's that part of the countless letters we get where people point to the quality of health care that they face with all the problems. And I believe that for us here representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the most important thing is to see the Minister's answer whether this law with this kind of bomb name gives answers that we will have quality health care and that we will solve these problems and solve them. By reading this law, I unfortunately did not find answers to these questions by Mr. Domagoj Novak and the second in the letters. However...... It's a big deal, though. It's a big deal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In fact, I think that Mr. Letica also gave a psychologically well-respected speech to an esteemed colleague, Andrija Hebrang, who said, "Andrija, you spoke well, but I can see that you don't believe what you were saying." So we have a phenomenon in Croatia if there are certain problems in any area, then the government always reacts equally. Either agencies are set up or various committees are set up and then a fake is given. It is a false impression: "Here we have solved these problems." And it seems to me that this law has, it belongs to this very group that, under quotes, we solve the problem, but in fact we haven't solved anything because we can't answer Mr. Domagoj Novak and most of those who, probably you at the Club of the Croatian Party of Rights, like us in the Croatian Party Club of Rights, you get letters from Croatian citizens who are just talking about this part of the quality of health, health care. Look, it's all set up nicely. The concepts are well-defined, but there's no idea. Which is worth a good term of the health care provider so the quality of health care is here when we have a letter from Mr. Novak where there is no answer in this law to this very thing, to this part of the quality of health care. So I think that this part of the regulation for the sake of regulations or for the purpose of giving a false impression that we are going to solve something unfortunately does not serve us either, and that we should not do such things. We also know that the problem with both primary and secondary health care is best known by doctors, and that is also the position of our Health Committee and is contained in the program as well as in how to solve the problems. We know what the situation with the homes of health is, that they are no longer what they were, that people have to travel through, say, the problem of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, the Koprivnica-Kristevnica, have to travel to the centre of the Grubišna polje, from Chazma, from any part of it, and so in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. Or the situation is that when patients show up at the hospital they're medically abandoned and can only react to surgery. So there's no such prevention, and then he has to resort to all these sad things. But to what I'm saying, which is also the position of our committee, as Mr. Domagoj Novak writes, unfortunately there is no answer in this law. I would like Mr. Ministers to reassure me and Mr. Domagoj Novak and all Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament that you have the answer to these questions, so perhaps we can change our decision to support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95217	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95218	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs, who quoted the incorrect quote of fellow Letica as saying that I spoke well but that I do not believe it myself. Not only do I believe what I've been saying, I've also supported it with numbers. Well, then I ask that you also believe in convincing speech and convincing numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95219	Representative Ivan Bagarić, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95220	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems that the HSP expert team of all the letters she gets most often reads by the one she writes herself. So, first, first of all, what you are, or interpreting the wrong letters. No, no, I understand that you could get that letter. However, the health care system in Croatia is far the most solidarity, among the most solidarity in the world and has nothing to do with the quality of health care. The quality of health care is completely different. Pero, it's not my fault you didn't understand, but it's not a good thing to attack the law and here the present minister for ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95221	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95222	Here is the Honorable President, it is evident that a colleague has injured Articles 209 and 214 that you should have responded to. There's the original letter, so it's easy for us to have these kind of advocates telling stories for little kids. You solve Mr. Domagoy Novak's case, so I'll trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95223	It was not me, nor Agent Bagaric who injured the Rules of Procedure, but you who hurt him because you were correcting the correction of the incorrect assumption. Respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95224	Let's read the Rules of Procedure out loud and see what article is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95225	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So we have to be honest and say that this bill is a good intention. But I still think it's just a good intention. And we know that the path to hell leads to good intentions. A year ago, we were discussing a package of health laws. We can say it was then presented as a mini health reform. And what about improving health care in Croatia after a year? I was also talking about this and the IDS position, and it was about laws being passed just to implement rationalisation and savings and to transfer as much financial burden as possible to patients themselves. You convinced me and all of us that it wasn't like that, but I'm still the same convinced that in those years nothing has changed. We also had that and now we see in the very rebalancing of the budget when the most money is given to cover debts, i.e. to transfer right to health care. These laws, passed last year, did not increase health care, nor cheaped the service, but only generated losses. In my opinion, quality and growing dissatisfaction were both patients and doctors themselves and other medical staff. In the Republic of Croatia we have quite an old population that needs to be treated, and knew that money and good staff is the only guarantee of improving the quality of health care. We can also talk about the number of children, somewhere around a million, which is the most sensitive population that needs the most prevention, and we don't have that. And as the minister himself said, all four and a half million Croats need medical and medical services. That's why no one can convince me that service quality has improved over the past year when we don't have enough staff and all the necessary material resources. We must certainly say that the extraordinary efforts of the staff itself still work in some way. When I spoke in my first reading about this bill, I read the opinion of a patient who was lying in the hospital. They operated on colon cancer, it was supposed to withstand that June heat that was in the room for days, which was scheduled for 4 patients, and in the room there were 6 patients, no air conditioning, no closet, no chairs for visitors. He says, "I was treated in the surgical department of Zagreb Hospital Mercury." The hospital's old, the department's mature for restoration, but that's why nurses tend patients day and night like newborn mothers. Medical personnel are making superhuman efforts to relieve patients of pain. Thank them very much for loving the sick." That is why we at the IDS Club are urging the ministry to start a systematic health insurance reform to get the health care it deserves. Because citizens can't wait months for checks, hospital beds, without still talking about operations or installing orthopaedic aids. If anything had changed in these years, I would have certainly praised this proposal for a Health Safety Quality Act. But I'm afraid it's just a formal alignment with the European Union's gains, because we're not done with the foundations yet, and we're already talking about how we're going to cover the house with a roof. All factors affecting human health should be addressed, from everyone being screened preventively, that vaccines are available to everyone, that citizens feed quality food and have a good social and sports life. In this way, we will have a healthy population that will grow healthy. It's to quote Ingmar Bergman, "Aging is like climbing a mountain, leaving us breathless, but therefore giving us magnificent views.". The ageing of the population is one of the greatest successes of the human race, it poses a great challenge to all of us who make laws, make strategies and reforms, and make political decisions. Therefore, the most important issue in health care is raised, how do we allow citizens to be healthy as long as possible? How to improve the quality of life? In addition to looking for answers to questions, the goal must be to provide everyone with optimal treatment options, maintaining physical and mental health and the greatest sense of security and involvement in social life. This law also doesn't make sense until the moment that all the disabled are evenly equalized in their rights. I must remind you that there are over 280 regulations in our regulation concerning persons with disabilities, and that the concepts in these regulations are out of line, so our bureaucracy takes the right to interpret the regulations as they wish. The health strategy, which was in place until 2003, until today, from this strategy, the equalisation of the rights of persons with disabilities should have been completed, and until today 2007, this has not been done. Our government to get time back on the list, that is, the new disability register, even though it already exists. So in order to improve the quality of health care services, first of all, laws should be passed that will certainly improve quality and be the basis for this current law, which is the Law on Equalising the Rights of Severe Disabilities. It is necessary to balance and simplify the rules to be understandable to all and place all the regulations in one place. What we had a chance to hear today from the ministry and some predecessors, it seems to me that idealize health care, and I would not agree with that, and I would like to ask any citizen to stop and ask if he is satisfied with health care, would not be such a great result. As for the technical part of the law itself, I don't think there's a D in this either. The ministry appoints, the ministry controls, the ministry determines fees, I think it's gone a little too far. Here we have in Article 28 of the President and members of the Governing Council, on a proposal from the Minister, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Article 35 of the Agency's legal oversight shall be carried out by the Ministry. This Regulation shall enter The Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint a temporary director within two months of the date of entry into force of this law. Article 43 of the Regulation for which the adoption of an authorised minister is authorised will be adopted within six months. The plan and programme determines and means insurance, promotion and promotion of ministers. All fees shall be determined by the Minister. So I think that it's really gone a little bit too far in this, and I think that it should be decentralised in some way and that each association has the right to make its own proposals. Finally, I must say that the quality of healthcare will not only improve by form, but only by one law, by reform of health care, by increasing income to health institutions, by employing an adequate number of medical staff, by building more modern hospitals and by changing the HZZO systems themselves. If it is decentralised then perhaps we have some chance of improving health care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95226	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95227	Thank you very much. Well, I'll correct an incorrect quote. My colleague said, "money is the only guarantee of quality health care." That's absolutely incorrect. The guarantee of quality health care is professional work and good control, and that money is not the only measure and quality security you have exactly the United States that is most unique to health care, and they have 40 million people who are not at all health care, provided. The fact that we spent 20% more on drugs in the first six months, and that our health indicators are the same, says the same thing. That's the facts. Therefore, money is not the only standard and quality security.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95228	The club of the representatives of HSLS, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95229	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS Club supports any law that seeks to promote the quality of any ministry, any public institution, any public authorities and any public service simply because it is our opinion as a liberal that the state and all state institutions are nothing but a public service for the good of a state, one political community and then it is clear that the quality of public service, the quality of the public system or the social subsystem, in particular health is also the fundamental meaning of the existence of public service. Therefore, if we are talking about the concept of quality, in particular, of the high quality of health care, then we can certainly say that in all these taxa-listed definitions of what quality should mean and what it will prescribe, we absolutely think that this should be supported even beyond certain political debates or party differences. What is not good, however, is the fact that in Croatia, in this way, we can say to the creamyly organized, crumbling system, especially as is a health care system where there are a whole series of doubts, from financial, organisational, logistical, if you want administrative, it is difficult to define a concept that is otherwise quite fluid, that is, the concept of protection, or quality protection. The concept of quality is always connected in certain cultural ways if you want local customs, cultural differences, entering the development of a political community or some community in general, different habits of life, mentality, so all of what in the broadest kind of sociological sense can be called social habits, systems of opinion, systems of values, and I fear that in a system that is in itself not well-organised or system that is in itself an organisational system, we will find it difficult to establish a certain concept of quality, and then, of course, consistent and effective measures to protect that quality. Of course, there is one fundamental question that we want to establish quality in relation to what, if that is the quality of existing institutions they are bad, then we can't even talk about the quality of bad. And I think we'll all agree that our healthcare institutions, by some average perception of citizens, can't call good institutions, or if we can call a part of these institutions good, it's certain that the whole system can't be called well-established and well-leaded. It's just that you're trying to from someone who, let's say, we can already take an example of an athlete or anyone who's a poor psychophysical condition to make him quality, so you're going to make maybe a better quality of what's already in bad shape, so it's the same with the whole system, if he's poorly set, poorly guided, if we're not satisfied with him, then we can actually talk about the quality of the bad. We should first establish a way or find a way to establish a well - run, well - organized system so that we can talk about its quality. In eight years, in two parliamentary mandates, there are almost no questions that I have heard more about, which I have discussed more, about which people present conflicting subjective concepts, but which perhaps most often has been discussed as something that we all want to improve and change together, it is certainly health care. It's a question we've been constantly discussing, in all these eight years we've been saying that it's bad, that we lack resources, that we can't be satisfied with the quality of health institutions and the sub-investment of the entire system, but I can say that all these 8 years as long as they can now express themselves in health terms, as sick as that organism is for 8 years we've been treating him with aspirin or even floor when we're frustrated and the whole system is then Apaurini. So the question that we are asking is whether we can have an organism that is ill, whether we can have an organism that has insufficient condition, an organism that is not strong enough and stable at all, whether we can talk about the quality of such a system at all, or if we must first as a legislative authority, the government, as an executive authority, local self-government, the regional administration, we need to establish such a system, that the health system, the social subsystem, that it becomes solid, stable, that the sources of funding are known, that we know how much resources are missing, that we will impose them, that we know the rights to first start protecting patients' rights, that we have passed this Law so that we do not actually implement it or are not being implemented as a whole so that we can talk about quality protection. The worst thing is that one legislative authority, one Parliament's assembly in its term of office in its kind of legislative and regulatory optimism, is to pass laws that are inconclusive or laws that we already know will be able to implement once we have established other necessary measures so that we can implement it. I remember four years ago, before the end of the term of the Parliament, I was talking about, let's say, passing a Law on Higher Education, which is actually inconclusive and which we're postponing, which we're going to implement with a delay. So I'm also afraid that today we're passing a law that we won't be able to implement right away, even though we're going to have a hard time implementing it at all, and even when we start implementing it, we're probably going to do it with a lot of confused terms, with concepts that won't end up being determined, you know that the basic rule in logic that the definition has to be clear. Without a clear definition of what the quality of the system is and how to protect it again, I'm afraid we're making a law that we're going to have to postpone or implement under difficult conditions. What other colleagues have been saying is that if possible, we can still fix the Law. And I agree that the articles relating to the work of the agency itself, to the selection of directors, to complaints, to the second-degree proceedings here are not determined until the end and I am afraid that this will bring even more administrative confusion because when people from the health institutions all those who participate in the health care system begin to use the opportunities and instruments provided by this Law we will practically have to adopt either a new law or sublegal acts so that we can enable them to effectively use all these instruments. Therefore, I think that it may have been better in a normative sense, taxively cited, and, of course, more precisely, to determine what will happen in such cases when the appeal is to be decided, which will naturally happen when it is estimated that some health institution is not meeting certain criteria, who will be able and in what way complain about what will happen with the proceedings, so if you want to do both during treatment or during the health procedures in the institutions that will be found not to meet quality standards, then all of these are issues which, unfortunately, we have not received an answer in this proposal. What we are also looking for as a Liberal Party is to finally determine the quality of life and the quality of life. You have listed Mr Ministers here and is well stated in the Law that all the countries today have laws that regulate the quality and quality protection of health institutions and health procedures, however, most of these countries also have quantified mechanisms and if you want accounting models very precise which determine what is today called the quality of life. You know that the quality of life is not only a concept that determines the quality of health services, but the quality of life then the concept that determines the quality of social services, so social institutions, and even the quality of educational institutions, the quality of higher education, medical staff and medical professionals, doctors. It's all gone, it's missing, and the quality of life today is a lady and gentlemen, a fundamental indicator of the development of a country. This can't be any subjective, arbitrary, arbitral notion. This must be a quantified term, with all of course I say these cultural differences that need to be taken into account. This must be one quantified, quantifying concept that we will actually be able to determine in Croatia what the quality of our citizen's life is so that we can tell if we are like Parliament, whether we are as people who are like government, as local self-government, regional administration, whether we have met these standards, whether we have guaranteed the quality of life and then, of course, according to whether our public institutions are quality, and then as liberals, too, we will be able to say that we finally have a country that knows when, how much and in what way it actually supports citizens' rights and in which public services are exactly the service, which is why it is there to support, increase and protect the quality of life. So I would like to appeal to try to establish, at least try some sublegal act, maybe it's not possible to do it right away, determine the criteria and standards by which life quality will then be determined, because, once again, it's the only option today, in fact, that we can determine how many states as a public service suit the needs of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95230	Thank you. Individual debate, respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95231	Your Honor, Mr. President. First of all, I must say very clearly and resolutely once again. Neither the Minister of Health nor this Government is up to the health of Croatian citizens, because if their health were up to the health of Croatian citizens they would have long adopted my appeal not to smoke in this House, not to smoke in public institutions, educational institutions. Mr. Minister, I've asked you a few times, written a letter to our dear president who supported this initiative, but you're still performing. I don't know whether you're pretending to be incompetent or not to know what European trends are and you don't want to adopt that most crucial conclusion, which is that in Croatian public institutions you forbid smoking because smoking is the cause of the greatest trauma, the greatest tragedy. In the last 10 years, only from this High House has it died or has it been difficult to get 20, 30 MPs, ministers, government presidents. As far as this Law is concerned, why did I assume, and he would be very surprised and concerned that hebrang, a respected colleague, spoke brilliantly without believing what he was saying. If he claims to believe it, I'd be very worried. Namely, I'll tell you. Quality, you can adopt an Austrian law in Croatia that it works fantasticly in Austria, that it does not work at all in Croatia. In general, the other day I was talking about this, the big difference between legislative and legislative culture in Southeast Europe, the Balkans and the old Europe. I was at a meeting hosted by our government's president, the meeting was about simplifying, reducing and making more effective regulatory mechanisms. It is a shame that, in this, the assembly of this House of Higher House has not introduced the practice of what is called a regulatory impactation, i.e. judgment or assessment of the consequences of the regulations. This law can be passed or we will not adopt it. The impact on quality will be zero, because the quality of health care depends not on one agency that would be a state agency, but depends on a lot of factors. I'll tell you just some, education system, registration system. We brought today Croatian healthcare and medicine the best subsystem of Croatian society. He's always been the best and he's today and he's going to be another 20 years of the best social subsystem. While the effectiveness of Croatian policy is 10 times lower than European policies, the efficiency and quality of Croatian health care is measured by whatever indicators you want 20, 30, up to 40% compared to European averages. That's why I've always stood up for enlightened conservativeism, so that health care is not a pioneer in reformist mania, but to be careful. So the first factor I already mentioned, the system of education and enrolment in undergraduate education we had a situation at a time when some of the colleagues, here is Mrs. Caparin, when she was enrolling in medical school there were 7.6 candidates on one enrolled. It's two to one today. The factor itself reduces the potential or latent quality of Croatian healthcare by not knowing how much. Hebrang spoke of one factor that was completely neglected, which is the opening of the sisterhood and medical market towards Southeast Europe and bringing less quality personnel into the Croatian market and medical and sisterhood. The second factor is the macro-organization of health care. You have an absolute situation, the other day... in the paper read programs of potential health ministers. [[Because of the noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of them are my students. When I read it, it comes to me crying. So you don't know who's worse than good fathers and good mothers, and you don't know anything about public health organization. You know a colleague of Ljubic's that once the basic factor of quality health was the chief regardless of the head of the clinic or the head of the clinic or the head of the hospital or the head of the hospital. He determined microhygienic habits, working habits, working discipline, quality. If the head of the clinic looked at you, he'd freeze to death and now you think by adding institutions, you'd increase the quality of health care. One agency, and this state agency really fits into one for me a completely inconceivable practice of establishing a crowd of agencies and national councils. We have 10 national councils today, and we have passed the National Sports Council, all deadlines have not been appointed. Mr. Arabovic, please check with the minister why this has not been done in order to bring the Parliament together. A network of health institutions especially hospitals and health facilities maps in Croatia is an essential factor in quality. Clinical quality and technological quality in the narrow sense of a word that can be influenced has no crucial impact. What is the motivation of people today in public health to work when their colleagues watch themselves daily media coverage of health care? If you do one critical analysis of media coverage, in the last year everything seems to be wrong and wrong in health care. It's been left to the health care officer, the state's attorney's office, the patient's agents. That shouldn't have been allowed. Every enlightened health care has professional associations, preferably just one. Either it's a chamber that's part of the Central European and Western European traditions or it's a medical choir, which is part of American tradition. And there's no room for the union. We have three professional associations, two you put into communication with that future agency. You've completely luxuriated the medical staff. Looks like he'll only be dealing with some rituals, having his own choir, having some posters and an annual anniversary. Therefore, seriously, ten, fifteen smarter people from public health should be gathered on a conclave, not at the end of the term, to consider that this stampede normative and institutional will not solve anything, but rather to start to think about serious health problems. There in that sense, I will, I can be for or against this law. That's almost all the same to me. Part of my frustration is about that, Mr. Minister, which I have written a review of your reform at the request of the Prime Minister. Of the eighty pages I've given you, you've adopted only one proposal, not to use the term "generic medicines" because the older man thinks it's degenerics, but to use the term "instinct" or "extreme". I would suggest you read it one more time. And he would especially suggest to these colleagues who want to be health ministers to learn something. And he would read to everyone to read the last medical papers to see in some way tragedy, poverty and misery of Croatian public health thoughts. People who want to be health ministers, they are confused and only pretend to be important and think they can solve something in Croatian public health. Thank you very much. An apology to Mr. Hebrang, but if you think of Andri as you were saying, I will be deeply concerned about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95232	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95233	Thank you very much. I have to correct my colleague's flight again who claims I'm not convinced of what I'm saying. And the best evidence is that he too is convinced because he reiterated the same arguments I made there, the numerical arguments about the quality of health care, the good direction of health indicators, the greatest competitiveness of health care within Croatia and good rating and international standards. And I also agree with his appearances that he described. So you could conclude that he believes what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95234	Replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95235	Well, I share the frustration of fellow Slaven Letica, because in fact he is in some way, and that liberal attitude that prohibits every ban and then, but for this ban on smoking in public rooms, I think that, and in institutions, that's a very important thing and that would be very good, so I'm saying here, give up that worldview. And I support and unfortunately also because I am one of those co-signatures of this particular action that would really help to raise the quality of life in Croatia, I think we could really start from ourselves. I, too, urge Mr. Minister to accept this proposal as soon as possible, and if not in this assembly, but in another, one of those, next starts with one such point that will promote exactly one civilizational gain, which is not really poisoning, not smoking, at least in public spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95236	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95237	Actually, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I expect your testimony as well as the Prime Minister in relation to the tobacco lobby. And as the President of the Republic said, if you smoke, you smoke Croatian, I have some hidden impression that you are somehow connected to that lobby. I'm a friend of mine with Anto Vlahovic, but I'm fighting smoking. I'm also friends with Kokurin, so I'm fighting smoking. Let them go, let them place their extra money in promoting health, in agriculture, in tourism, in insurance. Not to poison the Croatian people, that smoking, smoking and smoking cancers, Croatia is second among 70 European countries. It's a national disgrace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95238	There is a sign "No Smoking" in the Croatian Parliament. And certain services are appropriate to monitor and warn, and to prevent smokers who smoke far from the places where they smoke. So, no smoking. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, let me, of course, first of all, since I've been called, I have to answer. Professor Letica is usually very fond of me and I remember his beautiful lectures so within a college called "The Theory and Practice of Self-Government Socialism". So during my college, he was really a big supporter and an opponent of smoking. I get, I agree absolutely. I, as well as a non-smoker, say all the time that smoking is harmful to health. And praise your initiative. Support her publicly. I'm absolutely up for it. I'll join you in that. And as you can see, this year we've already organized several actions that are actually focused on segments, and that's to stop smoking. That's right. Smoking is harmful to health. It leaves great consequences, but it certainly isn't the only factor we have. The biggest factor is that everyone closed their eyes and focused on only one problem with which they were more or less barbaric and not seeing the other. The biggest problem regarding the ominous tumors that you mentioned was that there was not a single national programme for early cancer detection in Croatia. Not one. Never, ever at a national level, ever heard of you discussing it. If you had pulled a debate that would have been tied to a program like that opening up. Today. We've got them today. This is the national early breast cancer programme on Saturday. Big event. My invitation to you and everyone who is here to come to where it will gather I won't say how many, you'll be surprised how many women across Croatia in an action called "Step forward". Last year we had an action called "Five to Twelve." Why? Right, it was five to twelve. Today we are a step forward, because by this year 270 cases of early breast cancer, 280 thousand calls that went to women in Croatia between 50 and 69 years of age, 280 thousand ladies and gentlemen. It's the victory of Croatian health care, it's something that we're based on and something that's tomorrow on the government called the National Programme for Early discovering colon cancer. 600,000 calls a year will leave this ministry. And, Mr. Representative, when you say it's not working, I have to disprove you, of course, because here's the epidemiology, I think even today in the "evening List" there's a beautiful inscription that says very nicely where Croatia is going, that it has an extraordinary and good direction. So maybe that's the answer to some who said that things were idealized. Last Monday I was so it's 40 years of a transplant. Six highly developed European Union countries, the plenary lecture belonged to the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. The Republic of Croatia, which today takes a prestigious place in kidney transplants, a prestigious place in liver transplants, a prestigious place even in transplants. The Republic of Croatia, which today represents literally one force in the segment. And we don't have any more cases where everyone's looking forward to something being transplanted. No, today it's routinely commendable work done in our centers. And here, when the respected representative Kramaric may be there, he may also have one piece of information that Osijek is another victory for Croatian health care in obtaining a kidney transplant license. And when we talk about it and talk about ourselves, we talk about what we look like. Well, these are specific data that they're talking about. Here, I'll tell you a few epidemiological data that I have so far drawn. The number of live births per thousand inhabitants, please 8.9 practically passed in 2003, today 9.3 promila. The European average is 10.4. We are better than the average of the European Union. The number of infant mortality rates per thousand born in Croatia in 2003 was 6.33. 2006. 5.19. The average of the European Union is actually higher. Let's move on. The rate of death from myocardial infarction over the last three years has been reduced by almost 15% according to 2006 data. According to preliminary data, the first six months of 2007 are almost 20%. So on the table that was dying of a myocardial infarction now 20 die less. At a recent congress that was on Sunday, which ended in the closing ceremony where the most eminences in cardiology and cardio surgery in Opatija were Croatia's unanimously enormous recognition of what it did. And that's the biggest step in Europe to reduce mortality rates. So what are we talking about here? So what's different than objective indicators. You can say I think like this, I think like this, I like this or I don't like this. But these are objective parameters. So when we talk about objective indicators then let someone who thinks they have different but let them call on the publication of the World Health Organization, the ECDCI of the European Commission or even the Croatian Institute of Public Health and not speak well is either not my opinion or someone's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95240	Corrections to the quote. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95241	It's a shameful manipulation with statistics. According to all indicators, atlas Europe is Croatia when it comes to chronic heart disease among the top ten worst countries. As far as these screenings of yours are concerned, they only contribute to the production of diagnostic technology in Croatia. There are certainly early detections that can be useful but basic problems are the cause of these problems. And you say you should publicly appeal for a smoking ban. You're in the government, you can propose the law. Therefore, I have nothing to appeal to, I have appealed to our president a hundred times. You ignore it and you don't want to spend it in the Croatian public because you're prisoners of a tobacco lobby, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95242	Death to smoking, freedom to health. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95243	Mr. Minister incorrectly argued on the measures taken by the Croatian government to increase the birth rate, so he spoke of the number of live births per thousand inhabitants. However, the inaccuracy of the allegations is that incomplete information is given or the truth is silenced that it has been stopped, that the minister is responsible for stopping the law that has already been prepared for medically assisted fertilisation. Here, for half of his term, he was discussing how the law would still see the light of day, and then he had a hard time. It is a shame that Croatia was among the first countries in Europe to do so in 74 years. However, here we are now not to have this new method of transfer of egg cells but here we no longer have what we had until 78. Therefore, this is the real truth that the minister is responsible for not having a law on medically assisted fertilisation which is very much causing and directly... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95244	And what happens now, the minister is responsible. You're correcting an incorrect assumption, responsible for the fact that there's no law on artificially assisted insemination? ... That was the correcting of an incorrect quote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Very tense. It's not even a fantasy that can stretch it. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95245	Thank you, Mr. President. Before my presentation, I have to find out my colleagues and colleagues that this law really wasn't lucky since it came in time before the elections. And when we unfortunately don't talk about him here all of us who are present as experts who could be, but who we're only talking about politically and politicizing. I can certainly say that I am among the present representatives here among the few who may be the most relevant to this issue because I am at this hour in making between others and a doctorate that covers exclusively the quality of health and care and my mentor is a personal man who is one of the founders of quality as such or scientific disciplines as such. So I'm going to say nothing political here, but I'm really going to say what I know, what I believe, and I'm actually going to testify here. So here I'm going to testify about it, and I refuse all sorts of debates that were really just politics and not the least profession, nor were they going in that direction. When it comes to quality it is defined, someone said, "How is it defined?" It is defined as the extent in which concern is really provided in accordance with existing knowledge and generally accepted principles and practices. That's the definition of quality. What's a level of quality? It's the difference between the concerns that could be provided by the one that's really been provided. Someone said, "How much money?" So for exactly the same money we have. We're not talking about quality and extra money. Yes, of course. Quality is in the interest of all both government and citizens and all because it is actually about achieving quality for the same means. Not for more. So this is one big contribution. The consequences of lack of quality health care in the United States, please follow me, are the 8th leading causes of mortality. In front of a car accident. In front of AIDS and breast cancer. What are we talking about? So we are talking about a law that will systematically monitor the quality of healthcare in Croatia in a health system that is one of the best in the world. And according to the existing parameters, I don't know either, I think somewhere we're taking 30 and some place that's extraordinary considering how much we're out there for health care. Of those 30 and a couple of places where we are at least two-thirds, no, at least two-thirds of them than I think, almost everyone stands out by far greater means, and they don't have better or have the same same indicators as us. Now you can imagine what a revolution this Health Protection Act is and what it really wants to achieve with it when we already have such a good health, health care system as it is. And systematic introduction, monitoring and improvement of quality that it has to do with. Therefore, if there is anything that will contribute to the quality of life and the quality of health care, then it is this law. Unfortunately, however, I find it a time before the elections, and about health care, thank God everyone can talk and that's good to talk. However, it is not good to politicize as we have heard some debates here. What is maintenance of quality or quality of health care? It's a mechanism of constant enforcement surveillance. Correcting detected shortcomings and preventing their re-emergence. Health care shall be provided according to previously established criteria and standards. And they're here now so I don't go into the profession. So it's a question of structure, implementation and outcome. And based on literature data and on good experience in practice, I repeat, and in the richest countries of the world, people unfortunately do not adhere to these standards and norms. And these rich countries of the world have systematic quality monitoring unlike us. We don't have it. We introduce her with this law. So they have it, and unfortunately, when monitoring this quality, permanent and permanent mistakes are established. So for example in one great Switzerland, I speak great in terms of high standards. So an acute heart attack in all hospitals is not treated according to the task of the profession. So you don't give aspirin, not even Beta blocker or AC inhibitors where they need to and at the time they need to. So that's the result of constant surveillance. Now you can imagine what it's like in those countries where there's no constant surveillance. In the United States, Warfarin is not given in patients, in all institutions in patients, for example, who have atrial fibrillation as a prevention of cerebral infarction. And I personally had a similar problem. And at one here in Zagreb, they're conducting that prevention. So, for example, I can testify when we do, and if we don't have this surveillance, and by establishing constant surveillance, of course, we're going to improve the situation even more in each segment. When it comes to even Sweden at primary health care level, patients with diabetes are not examined by feet. So that's some sort of starting point. It also does not examine protein, the one in the urine, and is not observed. So I said that the United States of America's constant quality control has established that there are up to 90,000 deaths per year due to the wrong treatment. Over 50,000 permanent disability. In the UK, as many as 11% of hospitalized patients suffered from treatment damage. Or 850 thousand people. In Australia, that number is 16%. So 16% of the stationed suffers from treatment errors. And 14% of them end up with permanent disability. 5% even ends in mortality. Most of these adverse outcomes resulting from treatment are in surgical disciplines, which include sudden, sudden unplanned death on the table, unplanned re-operation, unplanned organ removal. Unplanned reception or reception and infections and so on and so on. Among these events, there are certainly anesthesiologically unfavourable events in considerable numbers. 20% of adverse events are the consequences of a drug regulation error and so on. In the United States, France and Great Britain, we are talking about relevant data and copies from literature. Even 6% of hospitalized patients suffer from drug failure. 10% of patients stationed in the United States, the UK, developed decubitus. 23% of them die as a result of these complications. When it comes to primary health care, major deviations and major mistakes have also been observed. So I talk all the time about countries where quality is systematically monitored and supervised. How? Just like we're proposing right now. There has been no such thing in Croatia so far. Therefore, the health care system in Croatia is certainly good and the introduction of continuous quality control improvements will absolutely bring and contribute only better and better. So this is one law that is the law of the domain of improving the quality of life as such and one of the laws by which this government can certainly be proud. And here I must congratulate the present minister. And it's the least possible place here today to attack the minister and call himself here for all the other, peripheral reasons, and I would say questions that have nothing to do with this law because the moment is actually being used so that I don't know how to please God and ask whom and how. In fact, many of us know that most people who are sick are of course unsatisfactory because of their illness and then simply play on feelings and it is certainly unacceptable. And as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely condemn it. I would like to conclude: Mr. Minister, I thank you sincerely for this law. I believe he will make a great contribution to all Croatian patients. All over the Croatian population. Of course there will be support and healthcare professionals, health institutions that will actually have one systematic method of monitoring now, and I would say a new element with which they have so far not been available in the fight for the health of their patients. Thank you very much. [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95246	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95247	Thank you, Mr. President. Like this, I would like to share my colleague Bagaric's enthusiasm and I would not like to deal with politics or politicise on this subject. But also challenged by statistics Mr. Minister said and which are definitely manipulation with both the Croatian public and people who are users of health services. Mr. Bagaric, I admire how much you admire how happy our people are with health services. However, if you went a little bit outside of Zagreb, but in the hinterland of Zadar, Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik and cities I would ask you how happy the users of health services are when I can't get a nurse, a nurse in the house and all that belongs to them in the law and before all these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95248	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95249	Mr. President, my colleague spoke about and praised all these things so he compared our data to data in the United States, which is my data, which is the best answer by Mrs. Hillary Clinton, who said about the state of health in the United States said that the state of health in the United States was almost as bad as in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95250	Okay, now. We're not in the U.S. Congress to correct the incorrect allegations of Congresswoman Hillary Clinton. This is the Croatian Parliament. So it's something else entirely. Honorable representative Kajo Butan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95251	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here in Mesopotamia, they knew that treatment could cause harm, and at that time they considered good treatment for the treatment that did not cause harm. And in the 17th century B.C.E., the Code of Hamurabius was prescribed for the first time severe punishments for those doctors whose treatment caused damage. Likewise in ancient Egypt, along with those who were punished were those who were rewarded. So the doctor, Inhotep, after his death, was declared God of healing. In the second half of the 20th century, however, it was possible to detect shortcomings in quality, apply measures to correct them and prevent them from repeating and without unfavorable side effects. During the 1970s and early 1980s, methods of assessing and measuring the quality of health care are developed, and at the end of the 1980s maintenance and improvement of quality health care. The essence of the quality of health care, according to the esteemed Professor Mustajbegović, its key part, its driver is not a technique, regardless of how good and perfect it was, is not exclusively money, the treatment will always remain art, art that rests on people, their desire, dedication and endurance. The fact is that quality and quality of health care work and professional ethics of health professionals, parts and their ethical principles and that they always want to provide high quality care. But building a quality assurance system in health is a process that lasts much longer. With healthcare professionals, there are two other categories of people who are interested in health care, which are those who receive care, i.e. users and those who pay for it. Patients have the right to care for high quality, and economists want high quality care as an equivalent to money invested. The concept of this Health Protection Quality Act is based on the patient’s orientation. The Quality of Health Protection Act aims to make it possible to compare hospitals and their results with a mandatory introduction of quality of work indicators in order to prevent even greater deviations in the mortality and complications of certain diseases. And that's why he's one of the few things that he would agree with a fellow Flightman who had a standing up before he was apostrophe of the chiefs of clinics and departments like the ones who used to bear the quality of health care on the units they ran with. By introducing quality, by introducing quality into hospital work, to tertiary primary care, secondary health care should be avoided at all clinics, departments evaluating past work, titles, establishing peace at the clinic or department and sending responsible competent authorities clean and unfractionated reports. In this way, they would ignore, in this way, one system that once was, and thank God today is increasingly less and less present with the new measures introduced by the ministry, which is a system of cover-up of real work, and I believe that this Law on the quality of health care will bring it even to the lowest possible minimum, so that quality, in accordance with this Act, will be able to be evaluated in all segments of the work of health institutions and will include management, rationality of economic business, treatment procedures, education and scientific activities, care of the patient, the safety of the laboratory and the apparatus, the safety of the patients and medical staff, the protection of the right of patients, communication with the public and monitoring of the results of the treatment. Once again, claim that this Law is not in fact a parallel or replacement of the supervision or inspection programme in health institutions. Here's what I said, and I'm going to join my colleagues who spoke before me, and I'm going to vote for the adoption of this proposal for a Health Safety Quality Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95252	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95253	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I join those who support this law because I believe it came at the right time that what it is already about the current legal acts concerning health care especially the Health Protection Act where and the Law on the Right of Patients, the patient at the heart of attention. So what does this law aim to do? It aims to ensure that everything we have and in the laws so far sublime in this Quality Control Act, that the patient is guaranteed safety, that he is sure that health care will be provided to him in the best way that it will be standardised and as such measurable and comparable. Therefore, each institution will be able to compare with each other, and Croatian institutions will be able to compare with similar institutions in other countries of Europe and the world. It's actually the main purpose and purpose of this law. In particular, the Quality Control Agency or the Agency that will run the accreditation has been set up in a way autonomously outside the ministry's system. This means that there will also be those remarks that are usually made that the system covers itself when it comes to some complications and medical mistakes. Therefore, we will have an independent body that will cover all health activities, will control quality both at primary health level and at secondary and territorial level, so in what is the highest number it is hospital health care. There was also mentioned a categorisation that was started in Croatia several years ago, but due to various indecisiveness I would say in several recent years, it has been kind of stopped. However, I think it will be necessary to bring it in as soon as possible in order for this Health Protection Quality Act and, above all, accreditation to experience one whole. So we both need to standardize and rank certain things in health care levels, technologically and on the subject of the profession. The categorization is actually a sort of classification of hospitals, when we talk about hospitals, at several levels, so the level of local hospitals, county hospitals, regional and clinical centres, so centres of excellence. This will certainly be necessary and I think that only when we have this, that we will then have a complete system of quality health care and quality assurances and safety for our patients. Therefore, the current proposals to this law say that the Quality Control Agency is overseeing another segment, which is health insurance so that health insurance does not happen through its kind of publications of some preventive examinations, systematic examinations, etc. They're negotiating something that won't fit the quality. So I think it's in this law and it's seen and it's good that it's mentioned that the agency monitors and insurance companies, and it's a big deal not to cause a mess to this so-called. State insurance companies differ as a result of competition from these private insurance companies. So the purpose of the law is to put the patient at the centre of attention, to guarantee him a quality service. It will be possible if we have standards, if we have procedures, so the accreditation standards that will be run by the agency are everything in this law and I expect this law to be another positive shift in the quality of health care that has been said by the speakers so far, and at an enviable level regardless of the funds they invest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95254	Thank you. 5 minutes, IDS Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95255	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Letica said at one point that something needs to be done with smoking, but how, then I'm going to answer that, so that the monopolies finally in this country where the state guards those monopolies are starting to pay a monopoly tax, profit tax. Let them pay 75%, not 30%, and those 75% should be directed to treat those with smoking cancers. In Croatia, about 2400 people die annually from cigarettes, 2500 people, meaning by that logic in Istria of 100 to 150 people, and one cannot simply take 800 million kunas net after tax and not on the other hand follow that health system. We're talking about health care, but yet without institutions and general hospitals, there'll be nothing. These general hospitals are kind of in front of bankruptcy, and that should change. I do not know how to shock, to simply warn about this problem, so I will also say that this problem can only be solved by returning the SIZs, that every county on its own manages its own, because it is absurd, Mr Bagaric, that more money for health care from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia goes to Mostar than it returns to Istria, which per capita in the state budget is the most isolated, somewhere around 10 billion kuna per year. And then what else does Mr. Lino Cheervar do to us at your meetings, calculates that in four years, Istria has received some 2.7 billion kuna, but didn't say that she gave 40 billion kuna, and 2.7 billion kuna, how much money? It's money for three handball halls in one Osijek. And that's just what we need to talk about. In other words, money in this country when it comes to general hospitals goes exclusively to where HDZ is in power. Let's look at this last loan, or contract that we're going to ratify with the European Bank in half an hour. The European Bank lends 330 million kuna, on these 330 million kunas or 325 million kunas, the state gives so much money and gives more 140 or 144 million kunas. Where's that money going? He's going to Mercury Hospital. Why? Because that's where Mr. Hebrang is. There goes the tumor hospital, because there's Mr. Turic. To Split because Mr. Sanader is coming from Split. In Osijek because he's from Osijek, Mr. Shakespeare. To Zadar, because there's Calmeta. And then I ask myself the question where is the Primorian-Gorski County, Rijeka, or Istria. There was a presentation of the General Hospital on Monday, but there is no normal minister in Pazin. And for 2007 in the budget for Pula General Hospital, 13 million kuna was secured, but for the period 1.1–30.6. After budgeting, we'll discuss this later, it's been announced to that institution somewhere around 160,000 kuna. And a lot of that attitude towards those environments where HDZ isn't in power. So, for the end, without money there is no quality health care, every honor to our doctors and our doctors, they and they hold that system but they ask the question until when, means the basic problem if we're going to solve something is one fair redistribution of money between individual health institutions. The truth of Senator Clinton, when someone mentioned here, said that the health system in the United States is worse than the health system in Croatia, that American health care is far more insolent than Croatia at all, but Croatia seems to be copying America then it is not promising, once word understandably, this legal proposal should in some way be supported but what I'm talking about are health problems among others in those environments where HDZ is not in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95256	Several corrections to incorrect allegations by the first respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95257	I would like to thank Mr. President, I would like to correct my colleague Caine who says that she goes to Mostar Hospital more than this much money, etc., so absolutely incorrect allegation, it is not true that she is leaving for health care in Mostar no lip, for health care such as not one lip has gone to Mostar or Bosnia and Herzegovina, but has gone to a certain amount of money to build a Clinical Hospital in Mostar which she supports as a health care system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Turkey and Japan and Great Britain and Belgium, and now Croatia does not support this system, among other things, to support it for rationalisation, because Croatian citizens if they are built down there, which we are building, and with the help of Croatia will not have to come here and receive health care and spend more funds. I don't know where you get that information if you didn't get it from one of the SIZs you're calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95258	Second correction by Honorary Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95259	Thank you very much, colleague Cain listed everything here and it could all be counted as an incorrect quote but I am correcting what he said that Croatian Health Services, or the Croatian Health Insurance Office only shares money where HDZ is in power and where it is not that it does not give. This is a total and absolute untrue, money is allocated to hospital systems according to certain criteria and, respecting various changes in the new procedures, the funds are added. For example, it is just a Pula hospital where HDZ has never been in power, if it is so viewed as power as a colleague Caine she received from 1. 1st increase by 300 thousand kuna, I'd compare that one other hospital that's also high-quality received only 50 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95260	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Miodrag Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95261	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that Mr. Caine lost a verb that could have dangerous political connotations, but sometimes it happens to him that he gets separated I never gave him and I don't believe he has such real connotations, he said Istria gave, alluding that Istria gave something to Croatia, Istria is an integral part of Croatia can only participate in obligations and rights in an adequate manner like the rest of Croatia and give something to Croatia or something to receive from Croatia. I believe it was a mistake, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95262	Dear Representative Andrija Hebrang, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95263	Thank you very much. I am correcting the guilty allegations of fellow Caine that money from the Ministry is being left where HDZ is in power, the most money the Ministry has given to Koprivnica where it is not in power, the River where it is not in power, the Rebra where your government started the investment and did not secure the funds, the government has provided. And as for Mercury, we're investing him because your government devastated Mercury by abolishing the urology department that's been working there for 80 years. We are investing in Osijek because your government wanted to abolish the pediatrics and the entire Vukovar hospital because you have no idea what Vukovar is for Croatia. And to conclude, colleague Cain gave an incorrect analysis because it's obvious that the elections are close.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95264	Honorable representative Kajo Bučan credentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95265	I'm correcting the same inaccuracies as my fellow MPs before me that money goes where HDZ is in power. In fact, money goes according to certain criteria and is based on the Health Protection Act of Article 8 which prescribes how clinical hospitals are financed and how general hospitals are financed. However, with this remark, I forgive Mr Cain for his ignorance because he is obviously still with his knowledge of the financing of health care at the age of self-government or interest communities, SIZs, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95266	It's human to sin, human to forgive. Final review, Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the one hand, I can be pleased because a nice debate and a lot of nice words have been held, but I will say that in one segment I am not satisfied and that I feel this one void. In my first reading, I will remind only 102 votes for, 3 abstentions, not a single vote against and now the distancing of individual clubs of representatives from this Act, why? Do we really have choices dictated that we accept the Quality of Health Care Act? A large number of people participated in the creation of this Law, in the conduct of symposiums that we recently had which was extremely successful, where the world's greatest experts participated, where literally one round table with open questions was conducted, the answers were not seen by anyone who was who and who was which party. And now distance individuals and individual clubs. I have to admit that it bothers me and I'm asking myself a question, don't we all want what we really need, and that's to improve, improve and actually give frameworks to improve this quality on a continuous basis and to be visible in the international context as well. And in the end it was said that it was very difficult to implement, and I agree, it's hard to implement it, but I'm going to say it now in a sports dictionary. This government used to put the wires at 2 metres and jump and jump. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95268	Thank you, correcting the incorrect allegations of the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95269	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm correcting your incorrect allegations. We don't build. We will now, as in our first reading, vote for this Law on improving health care. There's nothing in this section, but it doesn't justify you from unfair distribution of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95270	Thank you. What? ... With a stick. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. At 12 o'clock we will vote on the completion of the agenda and on the part of the debated points during this session. So I ask the representatives and the MPs to enter the hall, except for those who are already in the hall, you don't have to. And the final proposal for a health care quality law. Amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem's amendment to the Legislative Committee. [[Intruder: Secretary of State]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95272	Mr. President, they're taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95273	They become an integral part of the Law. For work, social policy and health care?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95274	They're taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95275	They become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal for a health care quality law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 75 votes for, 14 against and 2 abstentions, the proposed law together with the amendments adopted. Okay. Let's find the quorum. Yeah. 106. We're going to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report first. Mr. President of the Commission, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95277	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I have a report on the termination of the representative's term of office, Marijan Mlinarić, and the start of his deputy representative, Zdravko Maltar. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 35th session held on 26 September 2007 a proposal to replace the late Deputy Marijan Mlinarić in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community by an act of 26 September 2007. As Mr Marijan Mlinaric was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the third election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with the provisions of Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Mr. Zdravko Maltar as deputy representative in that election unit begins to act as representative instead of representative Marijan Mlinarić. The commission found that the death of MP Marijan Mlinarić was in accordance with Article 10. On the basis of a notice from the Croatian Democratic Community about a person who, instead of a deceased representative, will be acting as a representative, has ceased his parliamentary term and that the conditions for the start of the deputy representative, Zdravko Maltar, have been met. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 4 September 2007, the parliamentary term of office of Mr Marijan Mlinarić shall cease, and the parliamentary duty shall be in accordance with Article 9(2). On 3 October, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Zdravko Maltar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95278	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with the fact that the deputy MPs are starting to act as representative on the date of 3 October of this year. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the proposed decision. Advocacy of Zdravko Maltar. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zdravko Maltar, will be sworn in. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and then the representative after being called up and pronounced by the oath. I'll read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95280	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95281	Thank you. Congratulations to the representative and I wish him success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. Congratulations, Commissioner Maltar. [[Applause.]] We are going to - Report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request to initiate criminal proceedings against MPs Ivica Pancic, Mr Jurjevic, Branimir Glavas, President of the Commission Damir Sesvečan will submit a brief report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95283	Mr. President, I don't think there's a need to read all these four reports now because they refer to the same requirements for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs, so Marijan Jurjevic, where Darko Maček filed a private suit against Branimir Glavas, where Vladimir Faber filed a private suit against MP Ivica Pančić, filed private charges against Zdravko Livaković and Bozidar Kalmeta. It is all four cases of criminal acts against honor and reputation, therefore criminal acts of defamation and insults for which the mandate committee does not therefore propose approval of the initiation of the criminal proceedings. So that's the Commission's position. Only a proposal would be made to the Croatian Parliament, so not to approve the initiation of the criminal proceedings. I just want to say that this is not about personal law, but about the right of the Croatian Parliament to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95284	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to authorise the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivica Pančić's representative in the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the motion for a decision. An authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings shall be denied. Who's in? ... According to the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Bozidar Kalmeta against Agent Ivica Pancic in Case K101/7. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Against? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Restraint? Unanimity with 116 votes in favour. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision that is denied during the term of the parliamentary term of office of approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivica Pancic's representative in criminal proceedings under the private suit of Prosecutor Zdravko Livaković for the offence and slander of the number K12/07. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 116 votes to make the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95289	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the way of Croatia and the Croatian people to freedom and independence was not easy. The struggle for our independence, for our independence, for our place on the geographical map of Europe and the world was long, it was difficult. We have made many sacrifices for this freedom and for our right to be and to have our banner stormed both in front of the United Nations and in front of the Council of Europe and tomorrow in front of the European Union and NATO building. In order to achieve these goals in history, as well as in our latest ones, it was necessary to draw decisions and make decisions that were once difficult, which were perhaps at first incomprehensible or unacceptable but were certainly never harmful. This shows today the status of the Republic of Croatia in the world and in Europe. Even today, when faced with one, I would say not only the unjust verdict of the UN tribunal but also the shameful verdict of the UN tribunal because it is a terrible crime which, along with Srebrenica, is the biggest crime of the 1990s in wars fought by Slovenia, Croatia via Bosnia and Herzegovina to Kosovo. And when we are all rightly resented for such a verdict and, rightly, everyone together in their own way, each with their own style, someone of national interest, someone for political reasons, and someone from perhaps, not for each other but for the other, and, say, by the way that they feel they have to do so today, then I think it's time for us to re-remember in Croatia those moments that were as difficult or difficult as this one is today. Although we do not go to the strawberries with our throats but only to do what is always and thus this time what is useful for Croatia. And that is why at the beginning of this debate, I say that we from the Croatian government and the Croatian Democratic Community will be in favour of continuing our cooperation with the International Criminal Court in The Hague because this is exactly what ladies and gentlemen are saying that we can criticise it. That's exactly why we can go to the International Criminal Court when it comes to the prosecution, when the charges against the generals were then brought to the prosecution. Today, when the decisions of the Judicial Council have been made to the Judicial Council and to the court that we can be critical. And it's just legitimizing us that tomorrow, I'm speaking rhetorically tomorrow when there's a debate in front of the United Nations General Assembly or, and there's a debate expected in front of the Security Council probably on December 11th. According to the latest information probably 11 December debate before the Security Council, and in front of the General Assembly, the General Assembly on 15 October that we can talk there with full legitimacy about the sins, the failures, the errors of the UN tribunal. If we do, I'll turn the thesis now, if we stop working with The Hague court for sure that we don't have that legitimacy. Because then what are we gonna talk about if we break it up? And this is exactly how it is necessary to take advantage of the opportunity and the fact that from the beginning it was us who were the initiators or among the initiators of the formation of the Hague tribunal that took place in 1993. The Security Council resolution, just us who were initiators, is us who then passed the Constitutional Law on cooperation with The Hague. I'm telling me, I mean the Croatian state, the Republic of Croatia. I mean the Croatian Parliament that passed that law. We have the right to continue to cooperate and criticize. And one more thing. And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen of this House has no doubt that after winning the Homeland War, Croatia's history and history of Croatia's newer Croatian history, then no one will write but ourselves. In both Croatia and the world. In both Croatia and the world. I went to Ovcara immediately Thursday night and to clarify why I went to Ovcara because there were different interpretations. It was an interpretation that I went to collect political points to interpret those that I cared much more about, which were defense associations and families that were in Ovcara that evening, who welcomed this arrival in Ovcara with gratitude and saw it as compassion along with them who were victims and their families. And I was glad that she was with me that night as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Defense Department. That I was represented by Petar Mlinaric, who was in the camp during the Homeland War, in the Serbian camp and that there were others. And we didn't mean to make any political issues out of it. And I'm sorry it came up as a political issue. I wouldn't be talking about it today if it hadn't been for a reaction if we'd been working on that political capital. God forbid. But I considered my duty as Prime Minister, as president of the executive government, and also as president of the Croatian Democratic Community to leave that evening in Ovcara, to lay a crown, to light a candle and put a crown that was given to me by Pope Benedict XVI on the occasion of the audience. I felt it was my duty, and therefore I reject any other interpretation of that visit. This verdict, I want to express my conviction, and I mean the belief of all or at least most of them and here in this House and the Croatian public, cannot remain this way. We expect that the Hague Prosecutor's Office will no later than it is scheduled, which is a month, and we believe much earlier, we believe that it will not wait for the last days to file an appeal, a complaint, and that the Hague Court's Board of Appeal will annul this first decision and make a new one that will be much more appropriate. Because the question that we refer to from the Croatian Parliament and which I referred from Ovčara on Thursday evening reads: "How many people should have killed Mrkšić, Sljivancanin and Radić to get the sentences and prison sentences they deserve? How many more victims did it take?" We found 200 bodies, 61 more wanted. That's 261 victims, and there are those we're looking for from Vukovar far more. And that is why we will use everything in our legal capacity, which is the fight diplomatically on the international agenda in the United Nations, in the European Parliament. And I am pleased that through the Joint Committee of Croatian Parliaments and European Parliamentarians, the European Parliament adopted a resolution yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday in which it says it expects the International Court, I quote: "It will set a fair and appropriate verdict for those who are proven guilty." It is the European Parliament's position and it is the result of the government and the parliamentary delegation that was at the meeting Monday and Tuesday. I personally informed several European statesmen from Germany's Chancellor Merkel on Friday night at the CSU Congress, to CSU and Bavaria, to Vice-President of Austria, until that morning, Friday morning before speaking to you here at the Council of Presidents of the European Parliament Hans Gert Pöttering, and today just before today, the President of the CSU, Minister of State in Bavaria Erwin Huber, who, together at the press conference, expressed the same position with Croatia that he was speaking on behalf of the CSU, and that he was absolutely against such a verdict that he considered it inappropriate and expected the Board of Appeal to first file an appeal, and then that the Board of Appeal would change that. Ladies and gentlemen, we expect according to the announcement of a session of the General Assembly that it will be on 15 October. I will speak on behalf of the Croatian Government at the General Assembly on 15 October. And there I mean to say what I say here in the Croatian Parliament, and what I'm going to say is, first of all, that the verdict is embarrassing, that we believe that the court has not completed its '93 Resolution task. by which he was founded. And I'm saying here, if a verdict like this would remain, conditionally speaking, if a verdict like this would remain, the court has not fulfilled its purpose, the court has no purpose and has not accomplished its task. Because his mission was to punish appropriate war criminals. And I will say that and I intend to say that in front of the General Assembly of the United Nations on behalf of Croatia. But at the same time as this court exists, in order not to draw the wrong conclusion, I will insist that Croatia cooperates with this Criminal Court in The Hague because we were among the founders of this Criminal Court as a member of the United Nations and as such we have only the legitimacy to say what I intend to say there and what I am saying here in the Croatian Parliament. Anything else would have been auto-naked. Anything else would be the wrong policy, driven only by the heart, not by reason. And we believe that responsible state policy must be guided by both reason and heart. If it's only guided by reason, it's not good. If it's only guided by the heart, it's not good. We believe that the combination of one and the other should be what will lead one state policy and so should Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are on our way, I will repeat the words from the beginning of my speech, that this freedom has been hard and bloody accomplished. This is also witnessed by a number of associations formed at national level in Croatia, defence associations from the Homeland War. I talked to them, and there were several ministers from the government on Monday about this verdict and what we should do. We spoke openly. We've talked to people who represent the heroes of the Homeland War, who represent the families of the victims of the Homeland War, so all those groups that have formed into associations and that have national significance, so they're associations at the state level. On this occasion, I would like to thank them for giving unanimous support to the Government and all the moves the Government makes at these times and in these days, which is a letter to the Secretary-General which has already been distributed as a document, an official document of the United Nations. So it's no longer just a letter from the prime minister to the secretary-general, it's an official document from the United Nations. Likewise, there will be a letter that has not been published yet because we are waiting for the Board of Appeal to pass a new verdict and we will not publish a letter to President Faust Pokar, the President of the International Criminal Court, but it is also addressed to him. We also agreed that together with all our actions, we will insist that in all other European forums, it is also spoken of in any way, meaning through party channels and here I appeal to all parties in the Croatian Parliament who are represented in the European associations of related sister parties to take advantage of these channels and to be aware of this ruling by their party friends in Europe. I would like to thank the Croatian community of parent associations of the dead defenders of the Homeland War and Mrs. Lucia Kober who gave full support to the Government. Alliance of families of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and Mr Ivan Pšenica who gave full support to the government. I would like to thank Daniel Rehak, the Croatian Society of Campers of Serbian concentration camps who also supported the government. I would like to thank Zdravko Lončar, Association 1st Croatian Director. Mr. Djury Boy, Association of Croatian Volunteers and Homeland War veterans. Mr. Zvon Milas, Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War. So let them be heard, for it is conveyed directly to which people are spoken, and to which associations it is spoken. Marija Stipanovic, Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War. I would like to thank Željko Marjanović, the Association of Associations of Volunteers of Croatian Defence Forces. Ms. Slavica Kruškar, Association of Independent Volunteers of Croatia. Mr. Tom Kachinari, the Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War. Ivan Posilovic, Association of Volunteers of National Protection of the Homeland War. Mr Tihomir Trescec, Association of Croatian Defence Associations treated by PTSD. Mrs. Marija Dujic, the Association of the Families of the Dead Croatian Defendants from the Homeland War. Mrs. Neddi Balog, the community of the widows of the defenders of the Homeland War. Mr. Josip Djakic, Community of HVIDRA County Communities. Damiru Čurik, Croatian Defence Association. Mr. Space Vrsal, Homeland War Police Association. Mr Ivan Kovačić, Croatian Association of Vukovar Defence, Vukovar 91. Mr. Ivo Jelić, the Association of All Croatian Veterans and Volunteers of the Homeland War. Especially Mr. Djura Glogoski, the Association of 100% Croatian Military Persons. Mr. Sinisha Novak, Croatian Defence Association "Nikola Šubić Zrinski". Željko Baklajic, Croatian Doctors' Association 1990-1991. Mr. Željko Lukić, Association of Homeland War defenders Ina-Naftaplin. Prof. Alena Bartosha, Association for Sports and Recreation, Association of Homeland War. Željko Jakopić, Association of Defence and Veterans of the Homeland War Military Police. Damir Besednik, Association of juvenile volunteers of the Homeland War and Ante Jozić, Association of Retired People of the Homeland War. I felt they deserved to be mentioned by the names and by them personally who were present at the meeting and their associations, out of honor to them, out of piety and deep respect for all that they did in the Homeland War. These people, Croatian defenders and those associations, have also shown this time political maturity and political wisdom and have literally said, I am telling you, and I speak publicly in front of Croatian television, in front of the Croatian public, what they said there and can testify. It's not time for any other action, it's precisely for those you spoke of on behalf of the government and you have our full support. And that's why I appeal to everyone in the Croatian Parliament, this isn't a topic no matter how much you gossip around here that you think otherwise, this isn't a topic that we should fight about, or collect political points, this is a topic that we all have to be together about. If there is a willingness for it, for this community, if there is political maturity for it and if there is of course a will for it. I know we're in an election campaign, but regardless of the election campaign, I said my opinion. It might be, maybe someone thinks it would be a little bit more curent if I spoke differently, but I think this is the right thing to do, because Croatian state policy and Croatia's interests always have a chance in international politics if they're guided by reason and heart, and not if they're guided by just one of them and not if they're trying to profit from a difficult situation like this in a cheap way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95290	Thank you, Prime Minister. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95291	I am correcting the prime minister's incorrect allegations that he will be able to speak with full legitimacy about the failures of the Hague court before the United Assembly or the Security Council. That's completely incorrect. You will be able to talk about your failures that you did not react last year when in the Hague procedure, the Vukovar Troika was stated that it was not about the international conflict but about the internal conflict, that it was not about military, civilian victims, but about military victims in Ovcara. Then you could use the Institute of Friends of the Court and react and today the verdict would look different. Instead, we listen to pathetics today, instead of concrete things why you didn't react when you could through your own state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95292	Second, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95293	I'm signing the letter you sent to the secretary general, and I think it's a reasonable path. I also think that a lot of time has been missed, and I am correcting your wrong allegations that you have made publicly more publicly, that Croatian history will not be written by anyone in the world but by ourselves. Unfortunately, a large part of that history that we ourselves wrote up seems to us from the history written by serious historians in the world, prone to the victims of aggression. In this sense, great harm has also been done by Croatian politicians, some I am not talking about you and your government, and it is a great shame and I would ask here to publicly appeal to the prime minister in the shadow who has been calling for this High Assembly, not for months now, to see this unity of Croatia in the debate on this issue for the nation's most important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95294	Third, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95295	Your Honor, Mr. President, this... performance has a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations. First says the Prime Minister history won't be written by anyone else but ourselves. Unfortunately, history is written by The Hague Tribunal and Savo Strbac, and you have not taken anything from the aspect of political, legal and diplomatic measures. Secondly, legitimacy would be lost if we cut off co-operation. So what legitimacy we have after such a verdict and after not taking anything else. And third, you say it's not time for any other action. Remember your speech on the Split Riviera and your speech today and the results you did afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95296	And Pejo Trječević, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the Prime Minister when he found that the autogol would be all that anyone would do except for your policy on this matter, and your entire speech and defending your policy is actually an auto goal because you, Mr. Prime Minister, by your speech, claim that Croatia, as a Croatian Parliament, Croats and Croatian politics, can do nothing more about this matter, which is not true. We as the Croatian Parliament can do a lot, and in the end, through the referendum we can ask the Croatian people what they think of The Hague and The Hague tribunal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95298	SDP representative club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. This is the Prime Minister's testimony to this debate. Here you go, Prime Minister. They're not the answers to the corrections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95299	That's the rule, that's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95301	So, I will repeat again, gentlemen, history will not be written by Mrs. MPs, and gentlemen of history will not be written by anyone else or by the Hague tribunal, but will be written by Croatia, but I agree with Dr. In flight, I agree with him that there are bad things and incorrect things in the current textbooks about the Homeland War. I agree with you here and it remains a permanent task for all of us to work on and correct it. But my letter to Secretary General Banka Moon is the official document of the United Nations. If anyone doesn't understand it, then I'll explain it one more time. It is an official document of the United Nations, it is no longer my letter to the Secretary-General, it is distributed to all the United Nations Member States, because it was our request and it was satisfied the second day after Banka Moon received it has been distributed and it is history. It's history, what I write there, and you thanked for that letter, Mr. Letica. It is a history that stands as an official document of the United Nations, as we will at the General Assembly and the Security Council, precisely because we have proven full cooperation with the institution established by the United Nations, which is why we will be able to speak there because we have proved that we respect that institution. We'll be able to talk about her failures and say that she's missed her purpose of existence and that it doesn't make sense anymore if this verdict stays that way. So we know what we want, and you obviously want this debate since something's been going wrong lately, since both the problems with leaving and the representatives and the loss of cities are, etc. It's probably your only way now. I am sorry, and I would not want this debate to turn into a debate on HSP status at a political party rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95302	Vesna Skara Ozbolt is the first correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95303	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95304	Vesna Scare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95305	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95306	A colleague of Kovačević. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95309	I'm correcting the prime minister's incorrect claim that history will write, no one else will write but Croatia. That's not true. History will write... you did not react when it was necessary and you should explain this to the Croatian Parliament why you did not react last year when the course of the procedure went completely in the direction that it was not an international conflict and that they were not civilian victims of the war or that you were not Minister Lovrin who was supposed to react at the time and did not react. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95310	Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect quote. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95311	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's really wrong of the Prime Minister to hold the debate to the party, and when he tries to hold it to the party which is incorrect, I'll say that the vote for the HDZ vote... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95312	SDP representative club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95313	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. Today, this item of the agenda was prompted by a regrettable document, by the Hague court's verdict "the Vukovar Three". I think it is not enough to talk about the verdict because it is only the result of one procedure, but that it is necessary to say that it is a procedure which does not satisfy the interests of justice and the reasons for which the Hague court is established. The occasion is particularly sad for some reason because behind that verdict are thousands of people who are victims, some have lost their lives, some of them are 300, we don't even know the end numbers and the rest are their families, others are those whose graves don't know each other, and I have to say that I'm saddened by this initial intonation that looks like an inter-party debate, and I don't think it's good for this House of Commons or for the dignity of the Homeland War. But let's get back to the procedure. The fundamental error at the heart of this verdict is something I would dare call a charlatan approach by the Hague court's attorneys, who first cleared the indictment of certain parts, the various parts which three participants could still resist in the indictment. That's one thing. Secondly, amateurally qualified recklessly and amateur acts are qualified as a crime against humanity, not considering the possibility that the actual situation would turn out differently and that it would be a war crime and that the court would not have a major choice in a verdict. And the third aspect may not apply, of course, to the prosecution that in this whole long, too long procedure, the indictment is known to us in '94. Finally filed, that she failed to prove either what she accused. After a crime this big, mega crime, I call it mega crime and the Vukovar crime industry, that it failed to do it in one fair way is really something that comes out of the frame of all those, I belong to those who support international justice, who want all criminals to be punished regardless of nationality, so it came out of that framework and I am, of course, sad and sad. When the charge has already been what it is and the guilty verdict is what it is, then it is truly unacceptable for me to find that the person responsible for the crime, for the murder, has been found guilty of killing Ovcara 20 years in prison. Let us remind ourselves, General Blaskovic, of the inadequacy of the verdict. Fortunately it has been changed and it is just that Ahmić is freed. But he got 45 years. Thus, the argument that the court has on the grounds of penalties to rely on national practice cannot be absolutely applicable. The Sljivancan also responds and is punished for the tortures of a large number of people who were later executed. And for that, he got five years in prison like he was a petty criminal. So it is indeed a mistake for which, together with the Prime Minister, I hope the Court of Appeal will correct. So it's about an inappropriate, embarrassing verdict that doesn't satisfy the interests of justice. And the Hague court didn't really show up here. But of course it's time we asked ourselves about that verdict, and where are we? And what's ours in all this? I will remind you that Croatia is in its co-operation that is needed and that we must not give up several stages. The first phase was at the very beginning, the negation in some way, avoiding cooperation, so we entered into a phase of court ignoring and we dealt with the court mostly when it came, when it knocked on our door. I don't think the Croatian public has ever had full and real information about both the good and the poor aspects of the Hague court's work. The Hague court as one human form is, of course, imperfect. There's a lot of weakness. But in his essence, he has reason to exist. And Croatia certainly did not make a mistake when it decided to run the cooperation policy. She was wrong about the performance. And I think that's something to talk about. Otherwise, of course, as a member of the opposition, I am very happy to criticise the government. However, if co-operation with The Hague is something that this government has continued to some extent and expanded, then I can say that in this segment I support this government and that it is one of the good moves of the government, co-operation with The Hague Court. But what's wrong? With regard to The Hague, the government acted as a cobra - looking person. The government has never taken full advantage of the words, not only does this government have to be fair and say, not only this, I would say all Croatian governments, but I would not have taken the opportunity to take the opportunity to cooperate first to help the court and the prosecution to really all those who are perpetrators of crime be punished and to fulfil their international obligations, but also not to take advantage of the opportunity that correct cooperation enables Croatia to have its legitimate interest in the perpetrators of crimes against Croatian citizens, numerous, terrible crimes committed throughout Croatia, indeed being punished and that, in some way, the Hague Court is thus serving excellent and quality evidence. I think this verdict is a good example, because the verdict was published in 2004. There was a procedure at The Hague. We have an embassy in The Hague. There used to be some other institutions there. And since 2004, there has been no serious reaction to qualifications and the course of the procedure, as it has been seen that things are not going well. It really didn't seem to react, I think it was a mistake. On the other hand, I also think it should be made quite clear that no matter how much the media has yelled at the three Sljivancans, Radic and Mrksic as the key to the event in the Vukovar tragedy, she is not the real key. She's not the right key. She's one little key, let's make a little joke if this opportunity even allows it, because it actually refers to low-ranking officials. Look, it's about the captain, it's about the Major, it's about the Colonel. So surely the verdict of the three condemning or liberating does not resolve the key to what was happening in Vukovar. The key to what happened in Vukovar and all of Croatia and in that imaginary or real criminal enterprise that was described in the indictment against Milosevic is not in the three. He is at a much higher level and there is a time for Croatia to stop and say and see if it can through proper co-operation with The Hague which I say is good for the government to continue, to take everything to find the right key. And where's the key? Also mentioned in several indictments is Vukovar, and the most important one seems to me against Hadzic. Hadzic is on the run and Croatia has all its efforts diplomatically spelled me into finding Hadzic in front of justice, because Hadzic was the one who, in a para-state that was formed in a political sense, was that chain, linkage, the highest level of conditionality, connecting a criminal enterprise called aggression and all those crimes that came out of him. So I suggest to the government that in some way change that waiting policy. To take a more active approach and to be in some way more realistic than that boredom... And more openly, we all turn together the phenomenon of The Hague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately in that fear of The Hague very often we were witnessing a tendency to wait for some... Very often we had opportunities and we witnessed all together that the real teams were not always drawn together who were ready to shed light on legal and factual things to the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, for some time, we have invested millions of literally millions of dollars in foreigners who have sold theories that are neither legal nor factual and neither moral. We had thesis about the autogenocide in the Krajina where they laughed at us around the world, which we paid me to think of a million dollars and some dollars, something like this was, right, to remind ourselves. We had a theory that "Storm" as such does not fall under international criminal justice, which has also done us harm. We almost lost the dispute about... I had the honour of representing the Republic of Croatia in this case because, on the spot, our paid foreign lawyer disturbed us with his thesis, unreal which had nothing to do with international law or with the fact that we were in a position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is a moment that certainly isn't easy for politicians. It's a moment where you really need to look into the eyes of the people who have been killed, who are the great victims of this war. And it's fair to say that there could be more to be done, that more must be done. And I think the SDP's proposal is to go realistically, to tell citizens what the truth is about The Hague, what is the truth about the other Hague, what is our perspective in the process that we started for genocide. Why is the perspective the way it is that a team of young lawyers who had been formed, who gathered a lot of evidence back together because they collected many of the evidence that unfortunately, and to my surprise, the official state structure did not have. Believe me, they didn't, I was working on it, so I know. And the battle here, one ended for now as it should not. I personally hope that, to some extent, the Board of Appeal can change the verdict in which I have no illusion that there will be drastic big changes. In fact, the rules of procedure and evidence give relatively little space to amend and introduce new facts and new evidence in the appeal process. To expect a crackdown on penalties for changing qualifications, I believe there won't be much room and I think it's clear and open to all to say. What The Hague has brought to us and what is unfavourable for Croatian politics are the tendencies of individual politicians and politicians that the topic of The Hague Court which is sad, dramatic and ultimately dependent on both a certain balance and a political one, and a certain spiritual health of this people not to use for political purposes, that this topic rises even from the subject of pre-election calculations and planting, and that we turn to all together to make sure that the victims who are and must be the goal of all proceedings and all examinations, in the extreme line of justice, are there to punish the guilty and to punish the victims, to make sure that all the victims and especially these werewolveries from the werewolf strategies in criminal proceedings get the proper satisfaction. Finally, the SDP party is disappointed by the UN court's verdict. We believe that this work, the result of the very poor work of the prosecution, of the arrogant prosecution who did not want to hear well-intentioned remarks from those who were also friends of the international judiciary. We believe that the Judiciary Council should also have had a different assessment of the facts and a different verdict, regardless of the fact that the verdict has limitations resulting from the very charge. And we advocate, of course, that Croatia finds that key with all possible means, to find a link and not allow events similar to this in the case against Hadzic. I think that we are all responsible together, and we must be responsible for making such excesses, I must call it, not affecting the internal stability of the Republic of Croatia, so that it does not negatively affect the external position of the Republic of Croatia particularly towards the European Union and the international community, that it does not distort growing or improved relations with neighbours. And we need to pay particular attention to the reasonable and quality relations within Croatia when I think of the majority Croatian people and the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95314	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95315	Mr. Josipovic, not to respect you as a man, a representative, an intellectual and an expert in international criminal law, but otherwise. But I can't understand that you said the next thing I know, it's a charlatan approach to The Hague's prosecution case is a werewolf three. Mr. Josipovic, a colleague of Josipovic, a lawyer to Josipovic, this is not only wrong and false but it is harmful. Nothing has happened in that court since the beginning of 1993. In the last session of the Parliament, I was saying that it was not the court of justice but that it was a political court. That court is a continuation of Bleiburg. Those who created both Yugoslavias can never forgive Croatia because it was created and in The Hague it is open here in front of the Croatian Parliament and the public that in The Hague, with such convictions and judgments so far judge the idea of the Croatian state. There, criminals were not tried or tried for Serbian fascism, but were tried there by carnivores who had been pulled from the knives of the creators of both Yugoslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95316	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95317	... The replica so I should probably get the right to reply to the line. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95318	It's not a replica. ... The notion of an incorrect claim in the approach of MP Lončar is such that he holds that you have made certain factual claims that he is contesting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now, I repeat, the chairman is not arbitration. And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95319	Mr. President, I must correct two incorrect allegations. Mr. Josipovic, we must continue our co-operation with The Hague tribunal. With a political body, you don't cooperate. If cooperation and strategy were both former and current governments that Carla del Ponte led us here, then I must say no, but it is not for the sake of interest that you are saying to the European Union or to someone else. That's what the Croatian regiment wants. You yourself said where that strategy got us. An appeal may be made, but the appeal as such will not be much achieved, unfortunately. Therefore, the Croatian people must know. The appeal that will be filed now or will be filed by Carla del Ponte, the prosecution can't do much because a lot of failures have already been made. Judged by us, we've been turned into an aggressor.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95320	Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95321	Mr. President of the Parliament, I am truly asking you to explain to me as a representative who is now a fact-finding claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95322	If you were listening then you heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95323	What factual claim did counterpart Kovacevic correct? I'm asking you nicely, all parliamentary representatives want to or most of us to talk about this topic. Please, professional corrections to incorrect allegations allow us to speak too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95324	I won't explain or ask, nothing more. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95325	Mr. President, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. I mean, we'll all probably repeat that the verdict, as the Prime Minister said, is scandalous. I said on several occasions that it is not only an insult to Vukovar, all Croatian citizens, and even it is an insult to all free-minded citizens of Serbia who have been against Milosevic's regime since the first day. I'm even willing to claim that the three today would get more punishment in Belgrade than she won in Vukovar. He's saying the same thing. The goal that Vukovar has gone through, we all agree, is the scariest episode since World War II in Europe. Only Srebrenica can be compared to Vukovar. And I have no illusions, that the world wanted it could have stopped the war in the ex-Yugoslavia space within 48 hours. We remember in 1991 when Beiker must have come from Berlin to Belgrade and de facto allowed the Yugoslav leadership to take tanks to Slovenian borders and then start a war. But I also admit that the world in The Hague has somehow drawn the entire Serbian summit from Milosevic through Milutinovic and indirectly through them or through it has Pacificised Serbia. The truth is this Hague, America, Great Britain, Russia, I don't know France spared the top of JNA from prosecution. The Hague is all we know is a strange plant. Their credibility melts. This verdict, everyone repeats it is the ultimate cynicism against hundreds of victims. And there is probably also President Mesic's right, something Mr Josipovic said about this being a huge problem in this case and the prosecution itself. What the prosecutor was actually looking for with this indictment was what Mr. Josipovic called it if I wasn't mistaken for my top charlatanism. Mesic says on the other hand that we are witnesses and some embarrassing verdicts here, Croatian courts. Now the same question is, can we call the whole structure? It's enough to mention the Gudel, the Baron, the Rabbit family killer, and so on. So, if we are honest, we must call these judgments, as with full law, we must invoke the verdict of The Hague Court, where Radic was released, where Sljivancanin got 5 years, where Mršić was sentenced to 20 years in prison. In that verdict, I may be mostly disturbed by the claim that the military police were not responsible for the crime. Well, somebody's not gonna tell me that a Vukovar didn't know the top of JNA at the time, right? Well, nobody's going to convince me that one Kadjevic, Adzic, didn't know what their tanks were doing in Vukovar, are they coming back or staying there and what their planes and helicopters were doing? Every crime should be punished. This verdict should be called to heaven. But therefore you should also ask that and some behavior here not to talk about... and so on, which now appears in some cases also the most drastic punishments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vukovar is, once again, a serious crime, Milosevic, the top of the JNA and their trabants. Vukovar defended Croatia. Now the question arises whether Croatia has paid him enough? Some other time. The Vukovar has no clear right to humiliate. Vukovar has no right to humiliate the Hague court either. Vukovar also agrees no one has the right to use today for political purposes. With all the protests that will follow, I don't know, the United Nations, the Security Council, these or those clearly that I support it even though I doubt some change. And the question arises now how do you proceed? I don't think there's any need for hysteria. There is no authority in this country to say "no" to The Hague today. Finally, the court is formed if I am not mistaken in 1996 by the decision of this House. I know that some MPs, I will mention Mr. Perica, perhaps Zdenko Babić-Petricevic, almost cried when they raised their hand for this Law, but it is clear that it is necessary to express dissatisfaction that judgment and conduct in this case and the prosecution itself led by Carla del Ponte. The verdict is saddened mostly by those who believed that through international justice they would get satisfaction over the loss of their loved ones. And that's why politicians have no right to materialise this verdict in this pre-election time of ours. Vukovar is I would dare say to strip the politics of that time after which Croatia gained its own self-loathing. Of course there is one Dubrovnik, Škabrnje, Ilock, Osijek, I don't know yet. However, this event should not be politically materialised but everything should be clearly taken to draw attention to absurd judgments. And you should say the same thing. Vukovar was not defended by politicians. Vukovar was defended by the heroes of Vukovar. And as the current current policy has treated them, they may best bear witness to those beatings, beatings, the whining of the old Hawk in some basement here in the city of Zagreb. And no one will convince me that what was going on at the time didn't know the whole summit at the head of Franjo Tudjman. I also want to say The Hague has not been established to question whether Croatia has waged a fair war? Was that a defense war? I think Croatia received this confirmation on 15 January 1992 on the day of its international recognition. International recognition means confirmation was one fair war. On that day, I dare say, no matter what happens after that, thousands of more victims, Croatia has won the war. The Hague is therefore established to judge crime actors not clearly the people. I'll tell the truth one more time. This verdict is shocking and needs to be clearly challenged. The question today is another one that appears who will represent us in front of the United Nations for, I don't know, 15 days or a month? Whether it's the prime minister or the president of the state, Mr Mesic. The truth is like I... Just before I mentioned this three, I guess today you'll get more jail time in Belgrade than in The Hague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are not even their own relatives, which clearly illustrates what he thinks of them did not welcome them at the Surcin airport or whatever it is called. So once again, I think it would be very, very good if we opened this topic of who will be representing the Republic of Croatia in 15 days in New York. President Mesic at one point in the interview I don't know where he said he thought he should be. Perhaps even President Mesic is the most invited because he is not involved in these pre-election races. I don't argue that the Prime Minister doesn't have this legitimacy, but I'm also happy to say that between The Hague and the rule of law, this government has chosen a legal state because we all know what an alternative would be. What's wrong with me might be that maybe in The Hague except that only the generals weren't maybe some politicians or some journalists. I don't mean Rončević and the dance they're calling these days, but some from '91. I don't think that one Storm was a criminal enterprise, it was absolutely legitimate, but it was also known to all of us that after that happened. I'm going to say one more time, Vukovar is certainly the biggest crime against Srebrenica after II. World War I, that's what Istrians for us, say one Lipa, Shajini, Brgudac, one Kucibreg, when all the settlements were burned to the ground. This verdict I said was an insult to every Vukovar, citizen of Croatia. The verdict should certainly be reconsidered. But even in these areas, every crime must have a name and have a last name. There must be no mercy, no mercy, no pity for crimes, no matter what act of war he had, which was nationality, or where he came from. Those responsible for a Srebrenica should rot in prison. Those who destroyed Vukovar should rot in prison. Those who bombed Dubrovnik, Skabrnje, I don't know Osijek, must also be punished. But also those who, if they've stuck someone on their knees or thrown into septic pits, they need to go to jail as well. It's not putting an equal sign between anyone. It is known who attacked Croatia, who attacked Vukovar, who destroyed it, who defended it, who is the aggressor. But some behavior on the other hand needs to be sanctioned as well. I personally believe that there will be no more war in the Balkans, that all the countries will live in peace, that all the countries in this area as quickly as possible in the European Union, as soon as possible for us neighbouring Serbia as possible, as much as we can get into the European Union, it is a less chance that tomorrow, at the head of the country, a Nikolic will come and out of such a I don't know, and European Serbia can benefit all the countries in its neighbourhood. All countries in its neighbourhood will also benefit from European Bosnia and Herzegovina. From Croatia, etc. So the verdict is humiliating, but I'm afraid there may have been no international justice either. But regardless, the verdict, I said, should be challenged, should be reconsidered. But I also want to say that Croatian politics must not allow this shameful verdict to produce a new expansion of radicalism and isolationism. I agree with one comment, I don't know if I should read it, which is about to say, by cooperating, and yet I will, however, want, that, working with The Hague, they have consistently protected national interests, they are talking about President Mesic, and I will say that commentator, I will say "Nacional", Jurdan and Sanader. They were protecting national interests, and all that determines the policy of the court in the sphere was beyond their reach. Attacking them because of this cooperation is complete nonsense. If Croatia had not acted cooperatively, it would have been subject to various types of sanctions, even those that would have been difficult to survive. I want someone to admit it. I don't think that comment at this point is far from true. Croatian politics, so first of all this Parliament must not allow the nation to be hysterical, to listen to the voice of the HSP, so this cooperation should now be interrupted, that is to say, to question them all. Now whether this is Croatia's future will also tell its citizens about it in some recent elections. I think such a policy would at least be harmful. Clearly, we must be concerned with these Hague verdicts, but sometimes we must be gentlemen concerned with some Croatian judgments. I don't want this debate to bring us back. And as much as I think it would be best for Croatia to represent the president of the state of Mr Mesic in the United Nations at this pre-election time. Happiness is at this point, whether you laugh or not, that perhaps the Prime Minister speaks with reason, not with the heart of the Split Riva. And that's luck. Because if we behave that way, I don't think any of us know where Croatia would be right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95326	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ivo Loncar, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95327	Mr. President, my colleague Cain is as usual as if he were to say anything in Dalmatia in a cup of coffee. I quote: "They would get more punishment in Belgrade than they got in The Hague. A free-loving Serbia would react differently than The Hague." And so on and so forth. Comrade Cain, I'll make it right the next way. Remember from '91. the year, and these are videos of Serbia TV, not Croatian Radio Television, but of TV Serbia when they go on a trip to Belgrade tanks and on them the Yugoslav Army, and the people shower them with flowers. I didn't see any of the free-loving stones of that democratic Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95328	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95329	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President. In fact, it is incorrect to say that Mr. Kajin, where he claims that President Mesic would be most credible to represent the Republic of Croatia before the United Nations Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia is the one and its president who cooperates with the International Court, has the right at such times when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not satisfied, as well as the entire Croatian people to give an assessment before the Security Council of their judgment which is neither just nor worthy, which is neither fair nor on any of the articles of the indictment represented against those executioners and genocides in Ovcara and in Vukovar itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95330	And the third correction, the respected representative, Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim when he said that the unconditional co-operation with The Hague court has no alternative. In fact, any policy and government representing Croatian national interests must have an alternative. Because that policy that has no alternative, a state that has no "me" and an alternative is no longer up to it whose it will be and what it will be like. Mr. Kaja's cooperation with no alternative, and God knows what kind of cooperation. And talks about the General Assembly of the United Nations Mesic or Sanader will be the same, i.e. None.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95332	PGS representative club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95333	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer only to the Croatian Party's proposal for a right to discuss the purpose of Croatia's further cooperation with The Hague tribunal and to the suspension of further application of the Constitutional Law, and I will be very brief. I think this proposal is disastrous, that this is the best way to fully isolate Croatia and anyone who can support it, actually wants this country a very dark future. We have committed ourselves to the Constitutional Law, and it is in force regardless of what bad judgments, which, by the way, are not even powerful, are being passed by the Hague Tribunal. There's a real complaint, it hasn't been used yet. I am sure that such a bad decision cannot determine the country's relations with The Hague tribunal and cannot lead to a suicidal move proposed here. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is a condition for Croatia's accession to Euro-Atlantic integration. The one who proposes the suspension actually wants us to completely change our foreign policy. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is a condition for further progress in this country. The one who proposes to suspend this case actually wants us to be completely isolated, to throw ourselves at the state of today's Serbia, to be poor and to run one's policy, Tom Nikolic. I don't think that's something this Parliament and this state can accept in any way. I understand that we are in pre-election time, I understand that some are burning under their feet, but the minimum responsibility to the state and to the citizens requires that such absurd demand be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95334	SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95335	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. Allow that on this occasion on behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, and for the sake of...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95336	There's something wrong with the tone. There's something wrong with the beep.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95337	I say colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, let me, on behalf of the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, on the subject of which we are discussing, the verdict, and in the first-degree process of the Hague Tribunal to the three of the Vukovar, express my regret over the fact that many people in Croatia are once again injured and have a sense of injury. I think it's the duty of all of us to take special care of that fact and take care of it first. And if I can repeat on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, there is no way, there is no chance that because of the victims who fell in Vukovar, which fell elsewhere in Croatia, we should solidarity with their feelings. At the same time, respected colleagues and colleagues, the space for further solidarity in the creation of Croatia that will prevail over war, war policies, should not be narrowed down but expanded. At one point, it seemed that this verdict could seriously endanger what had been achieved. It looked like that space could be narrowed down. That created interethnic trust, that created interpolitical trust, that developed relations between states, that mechanisms of co-operation in war crimes matter could be seriously violated. I'm glad that today in this debate it's not going in that direction and the SDSS to the extent that it can be on both the ground and here and elsewhere will do everything possible to maintain that course. We still don't know if it was a verdict, which all caused such a verdict far from the expectations of our public, which is far below what our public expected would be a punishment. But today, in this place, we have to decide, if I may say so, if you allow me to discuss this sensitive subject that way. Are we going to discuss this more from the political sphere or are we going to discuss it from the law sphere? Are we going to devote more energy to the political dimension or are we going to devote more energy to the legal dimension? There are examples and one of them was mentioned, so General Blaskovic's case, that when the political stake in engagement was reduced, he strengthened the share of justice that the result was better. It seems to me, too, that we should generally pay much more attention to that very side. And those who say that on the one hand, the issue of co-operation with The Hague, but on the other hand, in general on the issue of war crimes processing, should be approached systematically, continuously and with great attention and constant vigilance, not as often as it seems, that those who advocate such an approach are actually right. If we want to achieve the values that we are as co-founders of the Hague Court and as those who have established the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court, if we are to achieve the efficiency of that court, if we really want to judge by justice and not only that no one who committed the crime is not punished but also that it is properly punished, that it is appropriate to punish it, we cannot do so if we do so as campaign members, not as members of this House, nor as members of this House, nor as members of the Government, and very often in this area if you allow me on the basis of my experience, first of all, in the home judiciary there are much more campaigns than the judiciary, much more campaign approaches and political bids than serious judicial action. We, of course, have the right to object to The Hague for this, but as some people have said, we have the right and look where we are in this regard. We have an obligation. It's not normal and it's hard to defend it in front of others, regardless of how emotionally we treated civilians who were produced overnight in reserves, rarely against their will on the Koran Bridge in Karlov killed in a brutal way, and those who should not be sanctioned to this day are not. Please don't get me wrong, I'm not making a comparison, and it's not a comparison, but our credibility is proven in this segment, and in this sphere, and if we've already achieved results, and we have, and someone has mentioned that these results can be seen in the work of our courts both in Zagreb and in Rijeka and in some other places, and if in the media can be not only uninterrupted, but responsiblely debated then I think that in the debate on this matter we really need to achieve as much as possible that people know that the issue of responsibility for the crimes committed in the area of Vukovar in this wartime towards members of the Croatian people, that this is not only the question of "threes" and those who say so have the right. Let us not forget that Milosevic was also responsible for this, that Seselj is responsible for this, that Hadzic is also responsible for this, that 13 who in the second-degree procedure are before the Belgrade war crimes tribunal, that in our courts in Vukovar and Osijek are condemned by many in absentia, so we still have no access to our judiciary more than 150 people, and there is no need to create the impression that no judiciary is doing its job, because then we will deepen the suffering of people whose feelings we must respect and whose feelings we must lower our heads whenever possible and express our solidarity and express our feelings of compassion. I think that such an honest relationship can also succeed in this matter that we are discussing and this topic that we are discussing and if the SDSS Representatives Club can in any way be part of that success team we are prepared to do so. But I ask that from a political pay phone, that from other speakers our children who are not able to be reasonable, who are unable to hold back with their feelings and with their words like us who are very easily what they hear and the atmosphere in which they grow up to be works, and sometimes into misdeeds, to protect them from it. It's our responsibility. We need to do everything to achieve the level of interethnic relations in Croatia and interethnic tolerance is not threatened, that because of one vote more or because of one possible misunderstanding it does not spread, that someone does not think if The Hague does not act properly then I will do so, and at one point unfortunately some have not only created an atmosphere for such a thing, but sometimes they have said that they will. That's why I'd like to do it again. The SDSS Club joins those who think that co-operation with The Hague is needed. It joins those who think that we should strengthen our judiciary in sanctioning war crimes, that we should develop cooperation in the region because many will not be available to our judiciary if we do not develop this cooperation with the courts in the region and that we finally need to strengthen our sense of responsibility for war crimes trials, regardless of who the perpetrator was, regardless of who the victim was and who the perpetrators should be properly punished and that they do not have a sense of peace all as we do not, as victims do, have no sense of peace until they face that punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95338	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95339	Mr. counterpart said if we want the court not to judge the campaign then we must have a different approach and in this context then he mentioned the Koran Bridge, the Milosevic trial, the Seselj trial, etc. And he's fenced up again that he doesn't want to even it up. So if that's the case, if we don't want it to be a campaign, why don't Mr. Columbo take the stand to judge the author from the early 1990s who was a witness when 11 thousand Serb non-monetaries were baptized in Croatia. It's a crime of crime. It's a crime that can be measured by the crimes of Nazism, and the man who said it in the early '90s doesn't lie, he'll never say anything about the wrong vote in the Parliament, and everything he says is as solid as a spider on the wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95340	The club of the representatives of HSLS, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95341	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to me as much as it may seem impossible at first sight that before Dinamo wins Amsterdam and wins Ajax than we deal with The Hague. This story of us in the Netherlands or in the Netherlands, in no way in the last 10 years, we can't just win the game, but win the middle of the field, or at least move on to the stage of the attack. We're just constantly exposed to seduction, escape, welcome, spread and all these petty tactical delusions and obsessions that actually cheat on us the most. We are faced with constant attempts by tactics of smaller, larger concessions, fursms, fluctuations to achieve something with the court that has established, established an international community that, however, whenever it comes to Croatia, has acted paternally in relation to our legal order and our political order. If only the candles were to be lit, if only the memorials were sufficient, if only the resolutions and declarations were sufficient, then perhaps we would have long ago established justice and the sense of righteousness within ourselves and then, of course, throughout society. But we all know that's not enough. We all know that we have failed to make far greater, smarter, the purpose of more similar and far-reaching moves and measures and decisions than this tactical furment that we unfortunately constantly resort to. When we look at everything that's happened in these ten years, then I would say that we've had too much bloating, we've been drilling too much about both the Croatian and the civil breasts and the senses of justice, we've been too many times as Mažuranić says, "jilit" and we haven't thrown the spear. We've searched too many times for justice in places where we knew in advance it was impossible to find. But in fact, all these ten years, we haven't hit the heart of things. And in all these ten years, we haven't taken advantage of what little opportunity, what little instruments, what few scarce mechanisms that as a political community, as one sovereign state were available, that we could simply conquer and provide for ourselves and that no one could take away from us. I agree that not only is the verdict scandalous and absurd, but the whole procedure is crippling, the charlatan someone said here. However, I am afraid that even the creamy reaction is ours, and I can even say that we are always responding, we are always running a policy that is a policy of reactive policy or pro-active policy. Instead of trying when we've already seen where this whole trial for the Vukovar Troika is going to go and how it's going to end, instead of trying to get involved and do something, we're relying again on the second-degree verdict to be different today. We're talking about the United Nations today post-festum. Today we are talking about a sense of justice among European peoples or European states. Today we rely again on something that has failed us so many times. So I'm afraid, then, that we're not just naive anymore, but actually this has nothing to do with naiveness anymore, but also the inability to as a sovereign state, as a people who have suffered so much, as citizens who must first of all have compassion for victims, to finally stand up as those who have the natural right to establish justice. For righteousness is nothing but the establishment, the restoration of a broken natural right or a natural order or a moral order if you will. And that's why I think that, apart from the letter that we're all going to support far more, we should try harder now and now, and perhaps even with this House's resolution, that all the state bodies, mostly intelligence services, diplomacy, in which we unfortunately also for the former authorities, and even for these, were more often sent by those who were similar than those who were capable of diplomatic action to do something. Therefore, diplomatic services and intelligence and judicial services and the state's attorney's office in this country begin to collect information, collect documents, supply documents and prosecution and court. And not only the Hague Court but also the domestic courts that finally as one mature community, we come to all that information that we all know, which has become part of something that we can call public space, a spiritual public space, but we never really collected them in such a way that they are in court or legal proceedings of unequivocal evidence. It is high time, therefore, that all these services start to work because if we rely only on these declarative documents, then I fear that again, again, again, by strutting and verbally declaring only certain values, we will lose the possibility that these effective instruments and we will give sufficient evidence, we will give irrefutable facts which, of course, will be served primarily by our courts, including the Hague Court of Justice. Unfortunately, by missing the opportunity to judge the crimes in Vukovar at all, we only trusted ourselves in the Ovcara crime trial. Who defended us, and who's defending us today to extend these charges? Who told us to do our own thing? Indeed, it seems sometimes that Serbian courts would condemn the stricter punishment and the three of the Vukovars and others than the Hague did, so that they might even judge those things that we should have done. This is how it turns out that Sljivancanin will indeed be convicted as someone who in Croatia does not know how to steal what is of course the same crime and crime, that you do not think that I am relatively or reducing the value or the misdemeanor, committed a misdemeanour, but that he will be convicted as someone who, for example, steals cars as car thieves, instead of being the most strongly convicted so that, of course, this condemnation will be, in fact, the embezzlement and re-establishment of the order to which we are all obliged. Therefore, I, and this time, ask the Government that, by accepting this resolution, everything does not end up at a declarative level. The Croats are too many declarations and resolutions, rather than working to include all services in documenting the truth about the Homeland War. Well, if you want not only in a documentary way in terms of court proceedings. There are few of the people of ladies and gentlemen who have won this war, who have managed to defend themselves in the righteous Homeland War, who has their heroes, who have managed to impose themselves on the entire community as an example of a people who defend themselves against aggression and who have managed to defend themselves, who have even failed to make a good film about the Homeland War, or a few of them. Other nations have made films about their defeats, we have not even been able to document the size of victory in the Homeland War. And you all know that today is a film that will look around the world of 50 million or 100 million people, that it is better promiscuation for one country than any declaration, than any resolutions and any speech in the United Nations. The Americans have conquered the world thanks to their film industry. We haven't been able to shoot, I repeat, one good movie about our heroes. But, by the way, we managed to turn them and even turn our own fights into anything before they turned them into heroes. In fact, even before we did crime films and on our side, which were unequivocal but should be investigated individually. We have managed to make such films, but these films that would actually be an epic not only of Croatian peoples but also of citizens, all who have defended themselves in the righteous Homeland War, we have failed to make such films. Not to mention this far more complex, historically more complex process of identifying all facts and documents. So I find this debate about the truths of fellow Letica and others quite excessive. We won't write the truth or them. We'll just write an interpretation of the truth. Unfortunately, the truth is felt by victims, defenders, victims, all those who have lost their loved ones. The truth of the Croatian people is not written in any books and cannot be written. It's mostly not going to be written by anyone on the outside. She's actually in all those lost dreams, all those traumatic experiences. She actually cut herself as a wound both individually and collectively. And precisely because of these victims, we are not only invited to bring declarations, resolutions, but finally to a proactive policy, above all, diplomacy that we have not formed, nor this diplomacy that needs to be fought for the truth, nor economic diplomacy. We therefore have a duty to establish these services so that we can not only defend the values of the Homeland War but also help to determine the truth. So I would like to say that we have also encouraged this debate in order to actually take the first step of the resolution, so that we all will be aware that in this false self-project of ours we will do something, in this ten-year zero attempt to fight for some place and for some justice we are finally beginning to think and to start working with those instruments that are available to each sovereign state and that, if you will, even Serbs are better at taking advantage than we are in this judgment. Their services worked much better than our services, and that is to say. Because this verdict is not unfortunately their defeat but their victory. Therefore, without some false self-esteem, it should be recognised to the Croatian people and to these citizens. And we are obliged therefore, I say finally to this proactive policy to change the situation I would say and finally I would commend my colleagues from the SDP. I think their behavior today was responsible, statesman. Mr. Josipovic's speech absolutely to protect national interests calmly and soberly, which unfortunately did not happen often when they were in position. Therefore, it is obvious that there is a force for agreement in this House today, for a political agreement that must then become the basis for all of us in public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95342	Thank you. At 17.04, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Five rectifications of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95343	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government and Vice President. Namely, it is incorrect to suggest that the Croatian Government's reaction is crippling. This does not stand but has done just as the national interest and how the Constitutional Law says at the right moment that it has said and condemned that it is a shameful verdict that was passed in the first degree and that it will do everything to influence the prosecution's further action to take a step that will surely be the one to experience justice and justice in The Hague tribunal against the execution of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95344	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95345	... The Rules of Procedure of Articles 209 and 214 have been injured. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Mr. Djakić should listen better to what I'm saying because I didn't say it was a clump reaction from the government than I said there was too much creaminess in defense preparation and in the preparation of the indictment in which we could participate. So please listen better and don't rephrase because you're replicating something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95346	What now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95347	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 219 has been injured. My colleague Chehok never mentioned anything or how. And I'm asking for a phonogram of his statement to be delivered to him, where he made it clear and decadent, that the reaction was also crippling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95348	Okay, we'll take a look at the phonogram. Second correction by the esteemed representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95349	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the quote of my fellow Czecho. In fact, I'm correcting his incorrect quote in his own words. He said that the Croatian people had plenty of declarations and resolutions, and here's his party proposed a resolution. And he says that there are plenty of resolutions like this. I agree that there are a lot of resolutions that are indeed the product of barren political woes and debates. Indeed concrete actions and concrete measures should be taken and this should primarily be heard from the government what it intends to do at The Hague itself in order to save more to be saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95350	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95351	Just like Mr. Djakic, I didn't say that. Neither is she, nor is the lady, nor has the lady corrected the wrong quote. [[/Intruder: How didn't you?]] I said the resolution must be the first step in what we're actually looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95352	That's what you said to your colleague Chehok at the end, and on three occasions you first said in your speech that the Croatian people had a lot of declarations and resolutions. Dear Representative Slaven Letica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95353	This is a psychologically interesting situation. By the time Prime Minister Chehok arrived, he was in opposition and said he had been creamy. ... When the prime minister shows up, he's in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how HSLS has been acting for years. So define your position. And as for the wrong quote, it's not right for Mrs. Kosor. And she deserves a form of respect, not acting opposition positions. And as for the wrong quote, you said there was no Croatian film about Vukovar. The Croatian film "Harison's Flowers" was made. It was filmed in Hollywood and it would be good for Mr. Modeling the Prime Minister that Croatian Television and Ministry before the fall of Vukovar this film is necessarily shown in all primary and secondary schools both in universities and on Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95354	Is Agent Chehok insisting on hurting the Rules of Procedure or not? It's not going to last, okay? Perseverance? [[Intruder: I insist.]] Let's hear that violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95355	Not only does the Rules of Procedure get hurt now, but I get hurt as a speaker, too. I did not act reluctantly but acted responsible for the interests of not only opposition but also the positions and opposition, and Mr Letica acted as part of the position and the hour of opposition. ... [[That's right, that's right.]] [[And what's that in?]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95356	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95357	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a colleague, Chehok, who said, "We're not for resolutions and declarations. The Croatian people are sick of resolutions and declarations and one movie is worth more than resolutions and declarations." Right? So it wouldn't be later if you didn't say so. ... You said coworker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when you said that in the end, you said that sentence that you mentioned yourself, and let me remind you what you suggested? You proposed in point 2 of the resolution as a joint act by all MPs. ... Who's crazy about that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's crazy about that? How about I remind you that you've been in the government all along in this term and in the last term and why you didn't insist on all this stuff you're insisting on right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95358	Okay, let's not in the sphere, it's not in the field of insanity that, once again for the fifth time, representative Ivan Chehok, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95359	First of all, they haven't corrected my incorrect quote, but they're telling me about consistency today. I'm talking again about reading and understanding my speech as a whole so that we know what we've achieved and what we want? So please listen nicely to the end. [[Intruder: Meaning, yes, yes.]] I know my colleague Kapraljevic is impatient, but that's his problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95360	Yeah, yeah. You should read between lines and listen between covers. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Chehok, Mr. Chehok said the truth is entirely true, right? Did you say that? The truth is in general. I think it's his whole lie here. He accused diplomacy, secret service, politics. He said no declaration would help. He was a coalition partner of both these and those of the government. He usually gave a demagogue speech. The demagogue speech because it's pre-election time and it's a shame that he used it just for the next election. My colleague, I can tell you that you may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95362	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Ivan Chehok, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95363	Well, I, I actually find it hard to say at all what Mr. Representative righted as an incorrect allegation. Except, except he's prone to insult. But I have to tell him the truth because the truth is the whole truth, but the truth needs to be told in his face. So if he's offended about it, that's his problem again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95364	Whoever listens will hear. Whoever hears will listen. The club of representatives of HSS respected representatives first Željko Pecek, then Željko Ledinski. Here you go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95365	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Madam Vice President. Here's a good coincidence that I'm coming after the Czecho, so since you didn't understand him that I was trying to interpret what he was going to say as a whole, the rest is incomprehensible. First of all, the publication of the verdict to the Vukovar Trinity is absolutely certain how we remained found, how we remained disappointed, surprised, consterned. But we in the Parliament have a right but we also have a duty to react. That's why we've proposed a conclusion along with the HSLS Club that we're asking to discuss in the Parliament. To let us know what he did and what he plans to do. But it is also pointed out that all of us MPs on what happened with the Hague court express our position through one resolution. With the founding of The Hague, it is absolutely certain that we have had great expectations. First of all, we expected convictions and convictions for the aggressors first. We expected to tighten the legal ring around political protagonists from the former Yugoslavia and prove the existence of a criminal plan and ventures in the creation of Greater Serbia. In this function we also read about the formation of paramilitary troops, the activation of reservers, and the engagement of the Yugoslav People's Army with complete people and with complete technique. In Croatia, one of the strongest and best equipped armies in Europe occurred at the time. They've shown their technical power, but they've also shown their impotence in Vukovar, and we all know they didn't make it. They failed because against patriotism and heroism can't be done by technique no matter how powerful it is and that's exactly the best way to show the Homeland War. However, too much damage in human and material resources, especially in Vukovar, especially the Yugoslav People's Army and the reserve, has resulted in a desire for revenge and revenge for the powerless, for the powerless. Those who stayed in Vukovar after the fall, wounded, old men, women, children. That's how Vukovar happened, and Srebrenica happened. The common feature of each other is that it went unpunished. However, did this happen by chance, whether the missing indictment was a coincidence, whether it was an exception or perhaps a rule. Today we rightly wonder what the future of this court is, especially the future of that court in the relations between the former Yugoslavia. However, what we stand for, and should probably include the resolution that the Croatian judiciary is also engaged, because the indictment against part of the Yugoslav People's Army's Summit was brought up in 2002. Here after five years, God knows what's going on. Anyway, we have too many questions, too few answers. Too many strangers and too much discomfort. We have a land in our heart. Does anyone want to reverse history in these areas, is there a power center that controls all of these processes? Does anyone want to even the blame? Those questions are always in the air. We just want to get criminals punished. We want this last unfair verdict to change. But we also want no similar verdicts to happen. We just need to show our agreement and our view of the future to the resolution. But one question arises: can we and we in Croatia still have to pour a little bit of ash? And especially when we ask ourselves whether we have done enough for our Croatian generals in The Hague. And have we done enough to promote the truth about the Homeland War? For this reason, the Club of HSS and HSLS advocates proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt a resolution as a joint act of all MPs that would include the harmonised positions of all parliamentary parties in condemning unfair decisions, supporting further activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, protection and dignity of the Homeland War, the victims and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, condemnation of crimes and the need for the justice of their perpetrators. The HSS will be against suspension of constitutional law. However, the HSS is for active state policy to court in The Hague. The HSS is for more active state policy towards competent international institutions. The HSS is for stronger research and for stronger promotion of the truth about the Homeland War. This is why we propose establishing an NGO that would be involved in a team, which would be involved in identifying and promoting the truth, which would be professional and independent. It would probably be good to include that part in the resolution. Well, I'm asking the other clubs, as well as the prime minister to be shown on the proposal of this conclusion that actually initiated the debate today. No one has shown themselves about the need for a resolution, about the desire for it to be harmonised, and of course it contains what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95366	Thank you. At the HSS Club, part two, Honored Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95367	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me have a few more words on behalf of the club that I will begin with a quote from Branko Borkovic, a young Hawk, otherwise our party colleague. He says, "All those who went through Hell of Vukovar in 1991 certainly remained caught up in a verdict issued by The Hague court to the Vukovar Three." Young Hawk wonders: "Is the rule of law working in Croatia?" For what? Well, first of all, because it seems to us that with that verdict we are equalized by those who are victims of this aggression with those who were aggressors. Because that judgment must offend us all. It turns out that there was a civil war in Croatia, not a defence war where most of us participated. Because of such things, Borkovic further says, he feels insecure in his own state. And he rightly wonders what all of our services that did this work were doing, processing these cases that eventually we got this result in such a single verdict. And I personally wonder if today after 16 years we don't know who was the aggressor and who was the victim. Then we all wonder together what we've been doing all this time. Have we taken all those steps to say that the rule of law works the right way? We've had plenty of time. We even filed charges at a certain time. But did we get the expected result? Have we established all the facts, especially our State's Attorney's Office, that this was to be done, following reports received from our services, from our Ministry of the Interior? Have we established the names of all the dead in the Ovcara? There were also minors, children who were civilians, wounded and macholy killed in front of the eyes of the Red Cross, an international organisation. The indictment itself has been changed during the process. I ask myself and all of us did we, after the indictment has been changed, take all the legal steps that we should have, or did it make the State's Attorney's Office that what was dropped, and whether or not it is apparent that we have implemented any special, separate procedures as provided for by the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague Tribunal in our articles? Every victim has a name and name. He has the individual responsibility of whoever did it. And in this case, it seems to me that those in charge who were also to be processed, who were to be held accountable, were not properly processed. I mean Adjic, Kadjevic, Panic and the others. They are not even touched in this part, and they are under command responsibility as our generals have been accused, certainly the participants of these processes. Since war crime is not getting old, this verdict needs to be a reminder that we need to take all the measures that are in our power to process all crimes in the right way. If that doesn't happen, then maybe in a few years we'll ask ourselves again what we've been doing in this time, at least we who have been involved in these certain events. Therefore, the resolution proposed by the HSS and HSLS Club should be another step in the process. And that's why I'm saying that with these processes we're in charge of those who are most responsible above all in the state's attorney's office, that we and those regular reports that we get here annually, they get to know us more closely as far as we're in these processes. That's why I think I'm asking all the clubs to support and participate in this resolution and that by the end of this term, we're voting this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95368	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95369	That's right, Mr. President, you've guessed it from the first. I must correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague when he blames these scandalous and disgraceful sentences of the Hague court upon the State's Attorney's office. The state's attorney's office is at least responsible for this part, the more responsible the former government where you and the current government have been for not taking legal, political and diplomatic measures. We know what the task of the State Attorney's Office is and what should have been done in relation to The Hague, but unfortunately we know that the Hague Court can no longer do anything about it because it has an exit strategy, and nothing can be done by this appeal given the situation in the case file.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95370	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95371	Mr. President, I thank my colleague, the professional rectifier of false allegations, but he did not listen to me very carefully and thus injured Articles 209 and 214. I didn't just mention the State's Attorney's Office, but also the other organs that obviously didn't do their part of the job, and in that part, he hurt the Rules of Procedure for not listening carefully to what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95372	Well, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that listens carelessly. And what Mr. Kovacevic is now, I agree with that deeply. That I guessed it from the first. The hero's right hand and the hawk's eye. HSP representative club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95373	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly none of us expected that the debate on The Hague court, that is, Croatia's co-operation with The Hague court, would be the topic at the last session of the Croatian Parliament in this term. Unfortunately, the verdict that upset the Croatian public has also led to the fact that, with the general indignation of the Croatian public and practically all relevant political parties in Croatia reacted in the only appropriate way, showing resentment, dissatisfaction with the Ovcara verdict. I am sorry, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, that in your speech you have experienced some of our corrections to incorrect allegations as politicization in the negative sense of that word. Because when we talk about The Hague, we always talk about politics because it was first-class and it is the foreign political issue of Croatia, but the foreign political issue of Croatia that is always very strong I would also very strongly reflect the internal relations in Croatian society. So there was neither the need to assess the situation in another political party, as we neither assess nor the relations within your political party, because when we have the party's exits, then we are civilised and welcome, we talk, and with you your MPs when they leave the Parliament can end up rarely and in prison. But let's let it go now, who in which way is breaking up with someone. The theme is too important to really politicize,... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I did, but I didn't put him in jail. So the subject is too important. You've said a few good things, and based on these things, I'd say it differently what to say later. You said that the court had not completed its task, you said that exactly if this was the case, and that it should be co-operated and criticised. Because working with the Hague court gives us legitimacy so that we can criticize it. I must say that there are a lot of contradictions here in these two statements, because if the court fails to fulfil its task then the criticism of that court is not what the Croatian public could satisfy, and I am convinced that it should not satisfy the Croatian Parliament either. Co-operation and criticism is the policy that has been led so far. This policy did not prove good in co-operation with The Hague court and I think it is a complete concept of the debate that comes down to the verdicts of the three of the werewolves, if she had said the motive of the whole debate and content, but it was just a drop that spilled the glass in the Croatian public. So it wasn't just the judgment of Sljivancanin and the others, that was what caused the indignation, but in the end I would say to the Hague Court's mandate, which already has a practical exit strategy, which ends slowly with its work, that the Croatian people had another great humiliation and we must say that with all these words you have spoken and the letters you have written, this second letter you wrote was about The Hague, one was after the indictments against Gotovina, Markac and Cermak when you responded to the Hague prosecutor's office and this was another letter, and it practically ended everything in terms of more effective Croatian politics when it came to co-operation with the Hague court. Unfortunately, there were times I would also say situations when it was necessary to react much more vigorously than it was today, and that was precisely the occasion of receiving Hague indictments for Gotovina, Markac and Cermak because that is the real problem that Croatia is still expecting, because the criminal enterprise that is being taken in the indictment as the cause of the indictment as well as the indictment against six Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is what is yet to be expected. I have not heard a single word so far, here and there, perhaps in some crowds of some colleagues about whether Croatian politics has missed anything and whether it is responsible, I mean not only your Croatian current governments, but the last 7, 8 years, and about the co-operation with the Hague court and the situation in which we have found ourselves related to these last rulings. Only this last case of the Sivancan trial, Mrksic and Radic's trial lasted 600 days. In those 600 days, I don't remember, because it would be difficult to identify, but I think it was very, very rare that one of the Croatian state's summits was being declared, there was a complete lack of interest, and if there was no interest and the state's top around the situation, and something colleague Chehok was saying and who else should have shown interest, then it was logical that the media had no interest in all this, so that one of the most important trials in the Homeland War related to the crimes against the Croats was practically gone without real activity, without participation in that story, and of course the result had to be like this in the end. You said you shouldn't use this topic for political purposes because the pre-election campaign has practically begun. I agree with that, but we reject that the views of the right party are that they are because of that, because of the time we are in, so 6 weeks before the election, because what we are saying today is what we said in '96. Years and '97, and '98. and in 2003 and 2004, and all these years, we have had a consistent and clear view of the way of co-operation with the Hague Court, in which daily politics is too often, which is not just me, that's what some other institutions in Croatia say, that daily politics has forgotten the Croatian suffering, the Croatian sacrifice and everything that happened with the Homeland War so that we don't bid on me, because I have no intention of bidding with yours, nor you with mine, nor our parties to lead the polemics around it, but the fact is, for example. It's '97. The first time we had a big funeral of 60, 70 Croatian defenders in Vukovar that we had to fight a difficult battle politically that only since the ninth mass grave, Perica Mlinarić knows that only then did Croatian television broadcast this one funeral directly, and reports from those 60, 70 Croatian defenders lasted a minute in the Croatian daily. That's when it started practically creating an amnesia, creating some kind of atmosphere that shouldn't cause me not to know any emotions. Of course we shouldn't be causing some international tensions, but the truth can't be covered up, because if we're hiding our own truth, we're not talking about it ourselves, so it makes sense that we had this sequence in the end as it was. Not to mention this mandate that there has been a situation infrequently where exactly the daily needs and day-to-day policy has led the government to the situation that has given up some moves and the application of legal procedures that could at least better defend the dignity of the Croatian nation no matter what it means to someone. But I will remind you that here we had an initiative to establish the Commission for the Study of the Circumstances that the Brijuni transcripts and the authenticity of these transcripts at which HDZ was at one point for the project, later because of the pressure of the Hague prosecutor, gave up, which meant that the Hague prosecutor was at that moment and acted directly on the Croatian Parliament over which there should be no one when such important decisions were made. So that's the kind of situation that's been going on. Once, Avis had to be positive, once the negotiations with the European Union started, and I also remember those embarrassing images in some big daily newspaper where the pictures of Markac and Cermak are behind bars, the front page is a ticket to the European Union. And with such behaviour, and with such a policy in which co-operation with the Hague court was only seen as meeting all the requirements that the Hague Prosecutor's Office had asked of Croatia where we had practically never used any legal instrument that was in our disposition, we were simply put in a position that everything The Hague had done had become the most common thing. And now that we've got one terrifying and embarrassing verdict there's no end to our surprise, indignation, shock, and then of course if someone sets up a thing like we did in the Rights Party, and on the trail of 11 years of the same policy, different than either you as a party or any other political parties that have given us here today, then it turns out to be politicisation, even politics and someone buying political points for pre-election purposes. I assure you that we are not glad that this is a topic and this campaign, because I am not quite as unaware as some may think that, I do not know that the views, or normal views about this are not exactly about the Croatian party the real God knows how received in international institutions, but there are some lines of political, some divisions that cannot be passed. So we ran politics consistent and clear, unlike you who had one policy four years ago in a pre-election campaign, and then of course later you changed that. It is possible to change the policy from the election campaign when it comes to power in some percentages, but to do as the President of the Parliament likes to say the Copernicus turn, then it is something quite different, and we have nevertheless reached for only one instrument that I would say the most democratic. You like the Prime Minister often to say that elections are a holiday of democracy. I agree with you that the elections are a holiday of democracy, but I think that the referendum is the same form of choice in some way and that it is a holiday of democracy and there is no reason, and there is no need to avoid the fact that even the Croatian people are showing themselves about it once, and right now on an exit story with The Hague, that it is the last one in this situation, that the Croatian people say with their response to the referendum that we are aware of everything we have been through as a people to get out of the situation where we find ourselves in order to win the war, to survive what was very difficult psychologically all the injustices we have had and that we can do with a referendum, so I have not burdened myself. It would be good if the Parliament would go on to suspend constitutional law. What does this suspension really mean? What effect could that have? Croatia is also a resolution... Security required to cooperate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We passed the Constitutional Law because it was then considered politically opportunised that there was a model by which we could cooperate, but without that Constitutional Law we would have to cooperate with the Hague Court. If we would suspend this application of the Constitutional Law, only then would your speech and your debate at... The congregation had a certain weight to show that we really brought about the behaviour and the way Haag treats Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were polemics here while anyone should be speaking to you in the assembly, the President of the State or you? I prefer you. With all the problems we have, I think President Mesic has said everything in The Hague. And although you have not responded once to his statements that the Croatian Party of Rights could not be part of some future Croatian government because it is not democratic enough, I think, as he has also declared himself, what he thinks of the policy we are conducting. Regardless of all this, I think that you, in the congregation, would know how to say something that will be good for Croatia, but I must stress that the referendum of the Croatian people is what you need at this time. What you need and don't need to be afraid of. This nation has always been able to properly assess, react and support those who legitimately and legally represent it, if they really do and do. Why are you afraid of the reaction of your people? It's not a street call. It's not a demonstration, it's a ballot and a pen in which just once the Croatian people can define and define themselves clearly on this issue. And when you mentioned in your introductory address to the public of Croatia, to us MPs about who supported you all, which associations, I must say that a good part of these people signed our petition. And part of the members of the Croatian Democratic Community signed the petition very prominently. And almost all parties in the Croatian Parliament have members of the prominent who signed the petition. Because what's wrong with the Croatian people being so important about preserving their own identity and our dignity and him getting involved. And not to be afraid of him like a fellow Banac told stories about... About hysteria, I don't know who else was using radicalism, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If radicalism is asking the Croatian people to say what they think about it, then we also accept the qualification that we are radicals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95374	Corrections to incorrect allegations. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95375	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to correct the assumption that we have never used any legal institute that has been available to us in cooperation with The Hague. I'd like to remind you of the fact that we've been more released both past and previous governments used the institute... or a friend of the court, that the Government of Ivica Racan used an interlocoturnal complaint related to the case of Bobetko in 2002 and that it was able to open up the possibility that the appeal procedure would actually prove the disease of the late general and not have to be extradited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing I'd like to say, correct as an incorrect quote. It is not the constitutional law that results from the political opportunity itself as trying to say by fellow Djapic. I would like to remind you that Resolution 827 was adopted on the basis of, in accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, and that in point 4 of that Resolution, I clearly quote: "All states will take all measures necessary under the provisions of their national laws to implement the provisions of this resolution." Therefore, it was a legal and not only political obligation and an opportunised obligation because there was no co-operation of the Hague court until then, so there could be no co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95376	Second correction by the respected representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95377	Well, my colleague Djapic, I think, misrepresented the position of the President of the Republic. He's had quite a bit of trouble objecting to the Prime Minister. He assumes the President of the Republic has something against HSP which he is firm and right. However, I think he thinks you're too fragile and too left because he contacts only the presidents of Iran, Libya, Kazakhstan and these old democratic regimes, so I think you've misread his position completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95378	The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95379	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to talk about this much today because it's already said a lot independently of the intonations. But what has to be said in any case is the fact that the UN tribunal's decisions hit all Croatian citizens very hard, touched, wounded and re-injured the parents and relatives of the victims and defiled the sanctity of the victims we carry in our hearts. Today, from this assembly payphone, everyone who truly sympathises with the victims of Vukovar and who respects the sacrifice speaks equally. Those who played defenders in the "Storms" shoes also speak with the same ferocity but other vibrations as those who in the last thirteen years have obstructed the activities of Croatian governments to which the prosecution could better prepare the indictment. Our expectations, for example, of Ms. Carla del Ponte, are not unequivocal or unequivocal. They passed our expectations and their ups and their downs, depending on daily politics. We can only ask what would have been different. In life, everything has to be upgraded and repaired, so all of us miss out and all of us miss the prosecution and all of The Hague tribunal's failures need to be corrected. It's the only way and our only goal. This can only be done by continuing co-operation with The Hague tribunal and respecting the Constitutional Law. If we haven't done anything by now, we have to find a way and make it work. The letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the debate at the General Assembly of the United Nations is for us Croatian party pensioners the right way and a good way. We simply need to re-suscitate the world public for the victim of Vukovar and the principle that criminals should be caught up with fair punishment. Otherwise, the UN tribunal is a good business for a concrete group of judges, prosecutors, defenders, translators, or good experiment. Co-operation cannot continue only as a condition under which we can criticise the tribunal. In the follow-up to cooperation, we must find a way of working on the basis of which we can influence the final decisions of that court. We're sure there's evidence and there can't be any political or interesting trade around them. Evidence should be forwarded to The Hague tribunal. Yes, the history of the new Croatia must first be written uniquely in Croatia, and then it will be accepted outside. And as we interpret the history of the new Croatia differently, we must also agree on the facts until we have done so outside there will be all kinds of interpretations of the history of the new Croatia. We have to agree on the facts. Until we did it outside there will be all kinds of interpretations of the history of the new Croatia. Furthermore, if everything else were as it is now, we think of the indictment, we do not want to believe it, and its reasoning as well as the amount of punishment it has imposed in its inadmissible verdict of The Hague court would lose its meaning because it cannot or simply does not want to respond to the need for events in this area to be clarified with dignity and in accordance with those victims of the Homeland War to deserve. We support the activities of the Presidents of the Republic and of the Croatian Government to request a debate at the Security Council and at the General Assembly of the United Nations on the UN General Assembly on the verdict issued by the Hague Court but also on the purpose, objectivity and sensitivity for the victims of The Hague tribunal. We expect that in these discussions the dignity of victims whose deaths are responsible for Mrksic, Sljivancanin and Radic, as well as the faith and hope of their loved ones who today expect no revenge, only justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95380	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95381	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Vice President. In the Croatian People's Party, too, we received them with infidelity, they disappointed us, and because of the level of punishment, we believe that justice is not satisfied with those judgments. If one verdict or the work of a court does not satisfy justice, then obviously something in that case, in that court or in that indictment was not well. However, this topic came before the Parliament today. We have two suggestions on the subject. A colleague Djapic explained clearly and unequivocally theirs which we will not be able to support for a large number of reasons. One of the basics is that we are Parliament on our way out. We are ahead of parliamentary elections and I don't think it's a good time to run away from responsibility and assume the obligations of the future Parliament's calling. But the second reason for this debate is the proposal that two clubs made. Listening carefully and reading their suggestions and explanations the more I listened to the team, I was in a greater doubt. In fact, counterpart Chehok spoke on behalf of one of the promoters' club and said three times that the Croatian people and the Croatian state had already had enough declarations and resolutions on this subject and the basic essence of the conclusion they had made was the adoption of the resolution. Nobody has convinced me so far and has failed to tell me what the contents of this resolution should be, how much would the resolution benefit in the appeal procedure, in the second-degree procedure or in the future proceedings to anyone before the Hague Court, how much would this parliamentary resolution strengthen the position of prime minister before the General Assembly of the United Nations or the influence of Croatia as a whole in all future proceedings. A rather strange situation, as if the clubs that proposed this debate had changed their mind later. However, as requested in the light of the request for discussion. Let me remind you of what it says. "There is therefore a need for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia without delay to report to the Croatian Parliament on the details of the verdict." Has the details of the verdict been said in parliament all afternoon by the prime minister? The circumstances that led to her. What have we heard about the circumstances that led to this verdict? It is also necessary to report in detail the Croatian Parliament on what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done and what it intends to do in order for the perpetrators of the crime to be justly punished. I must say, by listening carefully and giving the prime minister answers to these questions which the promoters asked, we did not receive or perhaps I did not understand them and I was in the hall. A colleague, Josipovic, mentioned that the whole problem had started with the indictment and that it was obviously in that act that had not been since yesterday, which, if I am not mistaken, been changed four or five times, complemented, that some points of the indictment had been dropped. The follow-up to the verdict actually began, the sequence of events with the indictment. So what did the Croatian government do in the moments of changing the indictment? What evidence, what facts, what witnesses, that we've given to repair the charges would be so that the verdict would be different? Secondly, this was the case for Ovcara, the Ovcara indictment. If I understand only one charge exists for Vukovar and that is Hadzic. What we are now doing is that the indictment that Vukovar is supposed to include does not occur after the third, fourth or fifth amendments to the indictment again to this verdict. If we have the possibility of influence, do we know how and with whom it affects, and before the trial begins, that the prosecution in court will not experience the judge's sentence in the sentence he turned to the prosecution and said you failed to prove it. So you failed to prove that nothing from the prosecution failed to prove it. The second is the verdict, the two were found guilty, one released. The third problem is the level of punishment for those found guilty and that is what made people bitter, which made the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rightly bitter and raised the question of what kind of message the height of such punishment or such punishment sends for the future, a message for the future. What does such punishment mean? That these types of crimes are worth it if the technical indictment is not well-assembled. It's even more dangerous, even more embarrassing for those who worked on the case. And that is why I am happy that the issue of co-existence in that part of Croatia has not been questioned after this verdict. The Prime Minister spoke before this House about The Hague and when it was very difficult and when it came to the extradition of our generals. I remind you then that the Croatian government has three scenarios, three possible strategies set before The Hague. He said they knew, they had all three worked out, but he asked us not to insist on speaking more in public because it would reduce Croatia's position especially compared to the prosecution and the others, and we understood that then. So what is the strategy or scenario of Croatia used in this case? I didn't hear that in the introduction. And which will be used in other such cases and charges which are still open before The Hague. Did the strategy mean that Croatia also intervened as an interested party in this case? Did she get involved? If not, why not, and what were the circumstances that the Government made such a decision? We also heard from the prime minister that a continuation of co-operation is needed because we will then have the opportunity to criticise the work of the Hague court. I guess that's why we can influence the work of The Hague Court, not criticise it. You can criticize all and those who cooperate and who do not cooperate. If the motive for continuing cooperation is because of criticism, then that motive is neither understood nor acceptable to me until the end. The second sentence of this sentence cannot survive. We put our hopes into a complaint and hope for a new verdict that will be more just. Is there really just hope at our disposal? Is it the only thing Croatia has to hope for right now? The third was a diplomatic struggle, the European Parliament and a letter to the secretary-general. To make it clear to me, therefore, that 4 points of strategy in this case of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And there's something else that shouldn't be spoken of in public. And I agree with... The Prime Minister said everything else would be a goal car. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the car goal in Croatia was also the Split Riviera. Car goal in Croatia were chains in front of Croatian courts. The car goal in Croatia was also those calls for a public lynching and declaring traitors of all those who appeared before The Hague court. In every form. Especially those who gave testimony to those who were witnesses. Those were car goals. Consistency, principle, dignity. Consistently on the same always the same regardless of whether in power or in opposition. Principled on crime and punishment, and dignifiedly and courageously at home and outside. Sometimes it seems to me that when we're at home, we have a hero's chest for domestic use and we often drill and bang on them. When we're out there, we're humble and ready for Europe, and we leave the hero's chest at home. That's not good. And that's why we might get too many beatings when we don't deserve them and deserve them at all. And so anyone who walks past us at least slaps us or ticks our ears without him knowing why? Because we put up with it all the time. One such topic, one such topic is on the pier. Someone might find that funny. But someone may explain in four months why Croatia must not activate ZERP 1.1 again next year? Someone will have to explain to someone what now with Parliament's decision to be activated and yesterday's message from Brussels, but we will slow down the negotiations. And that speed of negotiations if it slows down, that means we're standing in place. And I'm done. We are opposed to the suspension of the Co-operation Act with The Hague Court, and the purpose of the Resolution and its benefit for Croatia when we see the content we can decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95382	Thank you. Two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95383	My colleague said that the Split Riva was auto-naked. That information is incorrect and incomplete because it did not say what was the product? So let me explain why it's incorrect and incomplete. She was the product of our president's first two secret testimony in The Hague. And probably that's when people wanted to know what happened there and they didn't find out, and that's why it's incomplete and incorrect, and that's why I suggest that his two speeches or two statements that he gave in The Hague are now read in the United Nations building by Rade Leskovac, head of the Danube Serb Party or friend Đura Trkulja. Thank you. They both speak English well. Zlatko Kramarić, a respected representative, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95384	Just for the correctness of my colleague, Lesar. You're here now to really get off topic you've opened up the question of ZERP. As far as I'm aware, somewhere in December last year, the HNS Club was due to postpone the ZERP. And I mean, exactly that, so give me some correctness, book... Consistency is written. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no need to write it again and try really to be, to run politics, not really like this, normal citizens forget and don't, and they have the right to forget, but we here who deal with serious things can't be incorrect to each other. Hey, buddy. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I wanted to mention you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see precisely because of your consistency you are I have to say this. [[Intruder: This is important.]] A colleague... I was just about to defend you right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I have to think about it. Because of your consistency, you're 4 and you're a colleague of Lesar 1. And because you're leading a consistent policy, that's why you're being punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95385	Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader please welcome And Djakic answered? [[Intruder: Djakic answered.]] And why don't I have Mr. Djakic on record? You weren't paying attention. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95386	Mr. President, I appreciate that you may have overlooked this, but I've really been raising a correction to the incorrect assumption and it's the first one. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct only one incorrect allegation in a series of inaccuracies spoken by Mr. Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club. And it is that the car is naked in Croatia with chains, proselytes on the Split Riviera and protests throughout Croatia. The car goal of Croatia was struck by his president Pusic's statements when he spoke of the Croatian army's aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The car goal of Croatia was driven by the names of Croatian defenders that they were fake disabled, that they were at war for their own, for rights and not for their country of Croatia. These are auto goals that have been stickin' together with her and every day in this House as well as in all of Croatia and across Europe and around the world. It's the auto goals you've been hitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95387	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95388	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully, and even when I wasn't in the assembly, I was in the next room watching television. And I waited, and I went out because I had a phone conversation with one of the European prime ministers that I talked to about this verdict, and that's the fifth I personally informed about this verdict. Now, since I have not responded immediately to my colleague Josipovic, I will also look back at his exposure, Chehokovo, Djapic and Lesarovo. Josipovic supported it, Mr. Representative Josipovic supported the government in this policy and I think it is reasonable and that he did well and that this is a good position and a useful position for Croatia that you expressed on behalf of the SDP club. We also believe that in these situations we should not react in a way that goes into radical measures, because the international community has its own mechanisms and thank God that after centuries, Croatia has learned what these mechanisms are, that it is known to serve them and that it knows how to make the right decisions in difficult times. And I want to thank you for the support you give to the government and for the SDP's attitude. However, you did not correctly report when you spoke either, and Lesar was, Mr. Lesar referred to you when you said there was no such thing as a lawsuit against Kadic. That's not true. I have here a lawsuit, which was filed by the State Attorney General against Veljko Kadjevic, Blago Adjic, Zvonko Jurjevic, Bozidar Stevanović, Lives Panic, Mile Mrčić, Sljivancanin, Miroslav Radić, Vojislav Seselj and Goran Hadić. Hadzic is the last, Veljko Kadjevic is the first. How do I get this charge? I have it by being present and available to everyone on the website of the State's Attorney's Office and you can all see it. So, however, what I was curious about is why so far these proceedings, why these proceedings, have not been initiated before Croatian courts. That's what we need to say today because the judiciary didn't answer that question. The answer I got doesn't satisfy me. I'll tell him here. First, they said against the three who are being tried in The Hague there is no process in Croatia at the same time. Although I'm not a lawyer, it's understandable and acceptable. But against these others it was supposed to be a practice brought by me I don't know who, and I'm against that practice that can't be tried or judged in absentia. All of them are under arrest by an outcast and are waiting to be caught by Kadjevic, Adjic, etc. All the ones I've listed. I'm against it. And I am looking for today and calling from this booth as Prime Minister to the judiciary if I may ask for it on behalf of the Croatian public to change that and to launch a final process against these people. Why do I care if they're away? Well, the witnesses will die a little, and the events will die, and the memories, and so on. Therefore, and I gave the warrant, and I gave the warrant the first day I saw Radic being released and welcomed in Belgrade to Interpol hrvatska, the MUP in co-operation with Interpol today is ending all these advances, I hope that tomorrow will be the caller. And I ask on behalf of all of us, on behalf of the Croatian public, that these war criminals are against these suspects, and for us are war criminals, we are still not the judiciary here and we know what they have done to Croatia and what they have done to finally initiate proceedings against them, regardless of what they are absent and not available to the Croatian judiciary. And one more thing. By the way, your honor, I highly appreciate you, so I'm going to say I find this incorrect. By the way, you mentioned what is now with that lawsuit that Croatia filed to the International Court of Justice, and we all saw what happened with that lawsuit that Bosnia and Herzegovina took. I believe it is not correct to ask the indirect government what about when you were yourself part of the group, working groups, expert groups and you resigned very quietly when Bosnia and Herzegovina lost that. I don't think that's correct. I believe that you have much more information and that you have no right to call anyone in Croatia to say and to answer what's wrong with it. What will happen will be answered by the International Court of Justice in the Den Hague. And you who were a member of the expert group quietly without a strong explanation left that task force. I think it is irresponsible to Croatia and that it is irresponsible to the public. As for the Czecho. In 4 years, our Chehok coalition as a representative of HSLS was extremely cooperative, whenever we talked about projects for Varazdin. Always then. And someone else. But he hasn't asked me once in four years, and we've met once or twice if there's something going on in The Hague. Nothing, not once. And now he comes to the pay phone and he reads all of us lessons here and he's a little flirty with HDZ, little with the SDP, and then he's reading lessons now, and in four years, Ivana, you haven't asked me anything that the government is doing to defend the generals and everything else. ... It's true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When it comes to Djapic and the president of HSP, I will say this. Yes, you were always representing thesis in '96. that you should not go to the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague. But even then, you're wrong today. You're right about that. You have the right to be wrong, why not. But even then, you're wrong today. Namely, when President Tudjman, often predicating himself to us who with Tudjman in HDZ that we had left his policy, when he suggested that we co-operate, and Mato Arlovic well explained not only the political but legal reasons of co-operation with The Hague, then he could propose, and I remember these talks at the party's presidency, and then at the parliamentary benches and in the government, he could also propose law, ordinary law, not constitutionally, insisted on constitutional law. I ask you now and all those who are against the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague, why Franjo Tudjman then suggested it, why he insisted on it. And we respect it all, please, we respect it all, there is a consensus about it as the leading Croatian statesman who is the most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state and I don't think there is any fight in Croatia anymore. I hope there isn't a fight. And as time moves away the role of Franjo Tudjman in the creation of the Croatian state, it will become less and less resilient. I hope so. So if Franjo Tudjman then insisted on constitutional law and not on ordinary law, then he knew why. If we insist today that cooperation is not interrupted, then it is only because we are guided by only one principle in HDZ and in the government, one principle, Mr. Representative, which is the principle that we do only what is in favour of Croatia. And make sure these 32 associations I quoted are out of respect for them. I don't know if any of them signed your petition, but I'm not interested in it, but they have given support to this policy of the government that I repeat is guided by both reason and heart and emotion and patriotism for Croatia, but also by what we can do best to make it useful for Croatia. And that is why I think it is much better that Croatia does not interrupt cooperation and that Croatia does not put outside the law a constitutional law on co-operation so that I in the United Nations could speak exactly and legitimately, that we did not break cooperation and that we did not put out of force the Constitutional Law but that we continue to insist that this court, which we asked for 92/93. He fulfills his obligation, which is to punish the three of the Vukovar by proper punishment, and that is a much stronger position for us. And that's why I'm calling you and I'm going to say that you're not right, you're not correct, because you didn't exactly quote that I've never responded to HSP grades. I think here at least twice, and you remember that, I said that I consider Croatia a right since it started in this reform that you are conducting, a democratic party, but that we will be very careful when it comes to the potential coalition potential that this will continue to develop and I am still standing. So I knew when it was necessary to defend the Croatian party of rights. But I still think this is your... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That was here, you remember well. But I still think this is the wrong move because it's not all about going down a line of less resistance. It is sometimes with dignity to say that we remain in cooperation, the constitutional law that we passed in 96 when it was most difficult, it was much harder than today, we should remain in force, but we will also publicly in front of the whole world in a document that will remain the United Nations, say this verdict is embarrassing, this verdict is not good, and if it remains the Hague tribunal has lost its purpose, it has lost its purpose, it has lost everything that we have established it for 93th and that is our policy. So I think I also told Lesar that he didn't only have Hadzic, but everyone here did, but he didn't know it, he wasn't as informed as he wasn't because Agent Kramaric told him that he had forgotten whether, that he himself suggested along with another club delaying the application of ZERP, and ZERP goes on January 1st. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95389	Thank you. Six rectifications of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95390	Mr. Prime Minister, you probably didn't understand this about Hadzic, but I have this indictment on my computer, and I know, but I wasn't talking about it, I'm talking about an indictment in The Hague that the government needs better service than it's done so far. But I have to look back on what you said about the International Court of Justice. Yes, I was a co-subsidist in the process, and in this procedure, I tried to act as a legal professional, not as a politician, regardless of when I entered this House. And that's why I resigned, and now I'm going to say the reasons why I gave it. Not because Bosnia and Herzegovina won, I also wrote my point of view on the perspective of the lawsuit to the late President Tudjman when he asked me to. I gave up my representation because I don't want to be responsible for the bad work that's done in the first place because I'm both you and Agent Shimonović, and there's Minister Skara Ozbolt, four letters we wrote, we warned that the team was disbanded, that time was going, that the procedure did not make our contract with a foreign consultant problematic. One word is that four years of preparations for this case have completely died. What's more, at one point I got a request from the office to bring in my copy of the lawsuit, because the government lost it. So it was, I'm taking it out for the first time now and if you hadn't said I'd never say it because I consider myself a professional. I hope that there will be an opportunity now that you've set the matter up, that perhaps I will publish letters sent to both you and the two ministers of the judiciary, here the living minister of justice may confirm that I, as a lawyer, have insisted that the government do what it takes to make the lawsuit work. Therefore, the reason for my departure is not the perspective of the case, it has been bad since the beginning, let's say for the Croatian public. She was bad from the start. But the reason is that the government of elemental matters has failed the process of investigating and collecting evidence has not done it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95391	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95392	No, it's not a correction. I can intervene according to the Rules of Procedure. But why do you feel bad if I answer the word, means that you are afraid that I should answer the representative Josipovic. You don't mind? ... Come on when you don't feel bad, then hear it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Like this,...... When you're in government, though. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So like this, you and I appreciate your work, but your work wasn't the point of telling the government what it should do, but you were set up to do what you should do, not to tell you to be appointed by the government, and then you tell the government what the government should do. We've set you up, I don't know how many interventions you've had with the former government, and I'd like to know if you've written letters there, but in any case, it would be good to know what you've done on that preparation and why you left at a very sensitive stage of that place. I believe that in Croatia, and I am telling you this now, we do not have a lot of lawyers in Croatia who can represent Croatia and work on this sensitive job, and I believe that you and Professors are you. Shimonovic is absolutely among those who can do this, and that is why I think it is not correct that we are here, and I would not mention that if you hadn't mentioned first, that we are here now talking about this job that you two were supposed to do. I consider it still to be him, and I invite you to return to that team.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95393	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. ... Okay, don't run in front of the ore. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95394	Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't write letters to the former government because I think the then government founded this expert group and it didn't even lift it. Therefore, the disappearance of the conditions for serious professional work has taken place for your term of office. I'm sorry and, of course, I have no ambitions, you know that I never gave a public statement about the case precisely because I know that the government is a dominus litis to say so and I do so, but it was my duty and I think it was the same duty to feel, I won't speak his name, Agent Shimonović, and it was necessary to warn that things were not going well and that the government must provide technical conditions. The government didn't do it and I say the government has a lot of right to do it, but it's also my right as an expert to say that under these conditions it's not possible to do normal professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95395	That lawsuit is still in that court. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95396	The first quote I wish to correct is the prime minister's quote that I said that Vukovar was not charged with any charges other than Hadzic. I know about this indictment in the Croatian judiciary, but there was a debate on the Hague tribunal, so in The Hague other than Hadzic there is no other indictment. So you didn't listen to me very well. I didn't say it was your fault, I just found the facts. And another correction on ZERP, Mr. Prime Minister. It was not the Croatian People's Party's Club that he proposed, but supported the Government's proposal to postpone for 1.1.2008 with those additional conclusions and money provided in the budget rebalancing, only because we rated it useful for the Croatian state. That's why we supported the government back then, regardless of the criticism we were getting back then. You said 1.1. ZERP's going. How do you know? How do you know it's going? ... No, it's not that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They obviously haven't translated you from the European Parliament since the day before yesterday. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95397	Honorable representative Slaven Letica, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95398	I must correct and side with my colleague Josipovic in the name of anatomy, professional expertise. As far as responsibility is concerned, I personally felt that Mladen Bajic was the most responsible because he was constantly photographed by various forces and preambles, but when I asked Deputy Carla del Ponte a question which made him not charged against the Yugoslav People's Army's Summit, there was obviously some secret plan within the Hague court's prosecution that these villains were not being prosecuted, and in this sense, Mladen Bajic, Mr. Prime Minister, must act urgently to avoid being seen at any public assembly until he puts into action this indictment and this integrated indictment against the top of the Yugoslav People's Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95399	Dear representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95400	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of the prime minister who said Croatia can take all steps. Apparently she does not know, because she has escaped, she has failed to take steps in this trial, this trial has given, or the verdict has given a message that there has been no international conflict, that there has been no aggression, but civil conflict, that no civilians were killed in Ovcara, but soldiers, and unfortunately there has been a major failure. And as for the fact that he's against trial in absentia, I have to remind him that he accepted from the head of the OSCE all of his demands that were just at stake, among other things, that there was no trial in Croatia in absentia. This is respected Prime Minister Byzantium what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95401	Dear Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95402	Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I have been very pleased with your cooperation on the development issues of Varazdin, and in this way we have succeeded with your help, but thanks above all to our entrepreneurs, so here is the fact that I was mayor, I still am, to achieve that Varazdin today is the most economically perspective environment in Croatia and I am proud of that. I'll continue to work with you and everyone else because I think it's our job. But today I did not speak as Ivan Chehok and only as Mayor of Varazdin, but in the name of the club and I want to remind you that I talked to you not perhaps about The Hague, but I talked about the lack of economic diplomacy, not only with you, but also with the co-creator, Mr Mesic, that I told you that our diplomacy is not doing everything enough when it comes to this indictment. So, and that's what we've talked about, and I want to tell you today that the purpose of our resolution is just to activate ourselves. I don't blame you first of all, but I also talked about the failures of judicial authorities and intelligence and others. So we're all going together from today to this resolution to do something new, and I hope that we will continue to cooperate on the good of Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95403	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95404	Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister who spoke of this government continuing a consistent policy led by the late President Tudjman. That's not true because of the fact. It is true that President Tudjman believed that The Hague would be a judicial body, but President Tudjman was always against the fact that the decision was also made by the HDZ's main board that The Hague had any jurisdiction over Flash and Storm. There is an important difference between President Tudjman's policy and the government's policy and he certainly wouldn't allow something like this. It was also a hunch of HSP where it could be all in '96. It has led, unfortunately, to all of this that we have received these judgments and that nothing systematic will be done. So let's let the Croatian citizens tell who's right, not that you're saying the government is right, and HSP is wrong. Let the Croatian citizens decide who is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95405	HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95406	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office and Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Under this roof and for this payphone and for these benches over the past 18 years, we have had a lot of difficult times in which we have been in conflict between the wishes of the international community. We've had a lot of difficult conversations, a lot of hard decisions. Many of them were delayed, so let's remember from the first delay of that decision on Croatia's secession until the delay of 2002. We make a decision and then we postpone it, not because we wouldn't want it, but because Croatia was born in such conditions that we were alone, I won't say against everyone, but against the great majority in the world. And that's why we often hit the frame set by the International Community when we raise our heads. And why have we created and freed Croatia and brought to the door of Europe and brought to order the most advanced countries in transition? Why have we introduced Croatia into the rule of law during such a short period of war? Why did we create democracy so quickly from the war? Because we knew how to make wise decisions in those moments. And it is wise that David against Goliath shall not walk with his muscles and his fists, but with his understanding, and sometimes with his rod. Such decisions have always guided Croatia's fate. Today, however, the situation is much easier because today we have a big decision to make. Co-operate further with The Hague or not? It's a decision that doesn't differ from those I mentioned so far. But today it is much easier to decide, because as we have heard here there are not many dissonant tones, here there is an agreement on basic Croatian interests and here there is an agreement on how to achieve them. And that is what encourages and that is what gives me faith in the successful completion of this link in a chain called Croatia in the wings of other European independent peoples. But what is happening here today is also the consequence that Croatia was born against the wishes of the majority, I will not say all, but most of the great forces, because they were protecting their interests. And we've learned that. We met the moment we were introduced to buy weapons, but we were able to manage it in a bloody and heavy way. We were able to do it after the war when we were convinced that we were headed by President Tudjman, as the prime minister said, that now we have proved to everyone that we are an independent, mature state and now we will walk into the wing of Europe. But there was a blow called SECI, South East counters and integration. You're not going west on us, you're going there to your southeast. With sound politics and that's what we've gone over, and that plan is now forgotten by history. On such a course, Croatia's independence, and contrary to some interests, has been created by The Hague. Not because he was supposed to be the International Court of Justice but because for the first time in history he evened out the aggressor and the victim. Of course, we couldn't have known that when we made decisions about cooperation and of course today we're going to fight with all legitimate means of combating such abuse of The Hague, because this is the abuse of The Hague. The Hague should condemn the aggressor and condemn every single crime on either side, but it cannot release the executioner of the most severe victims after Hitler's time at the premises of Europe. And I don't think there were any big mistakes on this road. We weren't wrong even when that bloody night the Yugoslav People's Army armed the troops who entered the Vukovar hospital. Because we were negotiating that night, too. I had a difficult duty to conduct these negotiations with General Rushett and under Mr... , later the French ambassador to Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we signed, we signed that night with the Yugoslav People's Army a contract under which a hospital in Vukovar is neutralized and placed under the jurisdiction of the International Red Cross. And we've now sent those signatures to the court in The Hague. And what happened after these signatures both sides and the international community? At 2:00 a.m. on the phone we had with Dr. Bosanac, a male voice appears and curses the Croatian mother. We knew what happened. Instead of the Red Cross guaranteed by the International Community, the Chetniks entered armed with what? With the weapons of the Yugoslav People's Army, they didn't buy their knives and their kalashnikovs in self-service. They were armed by the Yugoslav People's Army, which was released today. And at two o'clock in the night that I reported to President Tudjman, he took the entire ambassador's court to the head with the then Ambassador of America, Mr. Zerman. Everyone was immediately informed of the slaughter. No one's done anything. We weren't wrong much later when Mrs. Louise Arbour, the first prosecutor said she was going to process Storm and Flash. We did not make a mistake because then we said that until we clear this up in international circles neither Ante Gotovina nor anyone else will go to the hearing because we believe that they are not in charge of the "Storm" and other legitimate actions of the Croatian Army and the Police. We didn't make much of a mistake even when we accepted the jurisdiction of that court, because the international community made it a condition. As a condition for Croatia to enter the international society tomorrow rather than remain isolated and remain there on the side condemned to wait, starve, be humiliated. By entering European nations, we will be the subject who will speak, who will be heard. And that's why we have to do everything in our power not to set ourselves up on that path. And our prime minister will speak in the United Nations because we have met the expectations of the International Community and not because we have unreasonablely opposed it. And the other day, our representatives in the bodies of Europe were agreed on our action against this verdict within the framework of legitimacy and international regulations. What I'm saying is, there are some mistakes. But they were not so far as to ensure that they would endanger Croatia's path through that door called the Schengen Gate. Now let's imagine what happens to the referendum if he's having a good time. I think of all these topics here, the only referendum on the abolition of the Constitutional Law or the non-compliance with the Constitutional Law is that, unfortunately, it's one decision with the smell of pre-election campaign. Maybe not on purpose, but in its effectiveness, it is. Because as my colleague Djapic said, and if this referendum were to succeed and if we had to put this law into effect, the Constitutional Law would still have to cooperate with this Hague, because we are bound by all other decisions and all other agreements. So what have we achieved? Nothing. And why is the referendum now that it is technically impossible to implement it before the election, when we know that the appeal procedure in The Hague will take a year for this shameful verdict? Couldn't we wait with the referendum after the election? We did, but then he wouldn't hit his goal, and it was trying to get some petty political points. But I am sure that the Croatian electoral body has despised to fall for such small traps that will not bear fruit this time. I am therefore pleased that the vast majority of speakers can say practically all clubs that they have supported this policy, that they have given support to continue to choose a legitimate path to combating a shameful verdict rather than an illegal one, not to bring down a hot heart the foundation of what we have created, which is Croatia's status in the International Community. And that's why I think at this point you should point out next. The Prime Minister is running the policy we've put him in charge of. All of us who have chosen and voted for the majority in this House, we have commissioned him to lead us through the Schengen door inside, not to close the Schengen door, so we can stay on the turn of events in the bloody Balkans. And that's why I think we should raise our heads this time, too, what we've done. We hit that frame again we're not gonna break. Let's take another bump on that head just to keep that head intact. 'Cause if we hit too hard, maybe there won't be a chance to get back up again. And that's why I'm thinking and proposing on behalf of the HDZ Club first that we condemn this shameful verdict that I personally suspect is due to the incompetence of the prosecution. Because a little too often that prosecution is incompetent. It was incompetent with Srebrenica when it blacked out part of the document to protect Serbia and JNA, it was incompetent and failed to announce political games about the extradition of the biggest criminals. Well, it's a third time incompetent, so it's not very convincing, but let's just assume it's incompetent, it's not malicious. We still have to cooperate with that prosecution there, and we have to cooperate with that court. Because if we stop this cooperation now and what happens to our generals in The Hague. How are we going to get involved in their defense, in defending the truth about Croatian victims? How are we gonna get to the United Nations pay phone? How are we going to get to the pay phone of united Europe? We're thinking of them because they're the provisions of what we have today. So let's support this government strategy, take whatever is legal and legitimate to let the whole world know that we are unhappy with the verdict and why we are dissatisfied. We support everything, our judiciary, our government that encourages the judiciary to press charges against what The Hague has not ruled. So far, we have not been able to judge the same verdict and the same indictment. Today we know what the indictment does not accept. Today, we can press charges against them. And finally, we empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement all these demands, welcome these parliamentary debates but do not allow ourselves to be the jailers of our own ideas on the road through the Schengen gate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95407	A few corrections. First respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95408	My colleague Hebrang said, quote him, "Croatia is born against the will of the vast majority of world powers.". That information is partly accurate and incomplete. A colleague of Hebrang, Croatia was also born against a part of Croatian people, particularly ethnic Croats and local Chetniks, who turned back and went against their own state. These people have always been a foreign directory of Croatia and an adjective of Croatia, we must never forget that. They are today Europe's biggest advocates because they fit them all, and... Vienna, and Pest, and Belgrade, only an independent Croatia at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And like this, when we go to Europe, we'll get divorced there, we won't have Croatia again, there won't be no Croatian nouns again, there won't be any Croatian adjectives. It is true that the great powers have caused us great evil, but these great forces have their own drawn knife here in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95409	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95410	I have to correct my colleague Hebrang's imprecise that it's a proposal from the HSP Club that it's a pre-election proposal and that it's politicizing. If there was anything politicizing, then it was a Split Riva that you were saying and what you're doing and saying. It's a pure principle of politicizing... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95411	Don't happen to be. ... If I catch someone that turned off the microphone. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95412	So, the Split Riviera was where you said one thing... And why are you afraid of the truth? [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] The truth needs to be enlightened, refreshed. Don't be afraid of the truth. Now let's give the court to the Croatian citizens if you're so right, Mr Hebrang and some Croatian citizens when the parliamentary elections in the referendum decide whether they mean what you think, what SDP thinks and what others think, and then we act on it. Let's go! What are we afraid of?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95413	Dear Representative Anto Djapic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95414	Your Honor, Mr. President. I don't know why you show so much anxiety when you mention a rival. So Hebrang opened the debate. Well, Hebrang said we use this for pre-election purposes. Well, we didn't open this controversy now, but Hebrang opened it. But I'm sorry, correcting an incorrect quote. My colleague Hebrang said that this has elements of pre-election, our... the elements of the election campaign. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's absolutely incorrect. Your speech is a typical pre-election campaign when you mentioned the bumps on your head because there's no room to hit a bump on your head, there's this situation that we've found ourselves in. I can understand fellow Hebrang why you are to cooperate with The Hague, but I do not understand why you are for the Croatian people to hold a referendum on the day the elections are manifested on this issue. It's a holiday of democracy that President Sanader would say if people could use a pen and paper to solve their problems. Don't, as soon as I mention the waterfront, you're nervous. Why? Well, I was on the waterfront, too. I said the same thing today, but you don't say the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95415	The Honorable representative of Slaven Letica corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95416	I don't want to talk about the Split Riviera, but I would like to commend the debate of fellow Hebrang, who was written in the tradition of visual optimism. However, there is one quote that I would certainly correct, which reads as follows: "We have chosen you to open the Schengen door and to take our people to Europe. People will get it wrong, you know, so they'll think he's in charge of opening the door and we're going to Europe. People often literally realize you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95417	An individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95418	First of all, I would first of all apologize to my colleague Ljubi Jurcic, the shadow prime minister because I objected to him and I got two options for his absence. The first is that he was kidnapped, the second, that he was kidnapped, and the second is that he went to see his mom to make a deal with him about getting married. And now I'd start to say something serious. Look, I'm in a good mood today. I think the verdict of The Hague's monster court should also be approached with a speck of irony and a little bit of life optimism. I'm very glad the Prime Minister hasn't lost his temper, he's trying to do something. It would be Mr. Prime Minister's unreal expectation that what you're trying to do will have great results. I've worked for years in this bureaucratic institution called the United Nations. There come letters from different sides of the world. They are placed through various diplomatic and other channels. That's what people see, don't see, discuss and don't discuss. We must simply understand that the ruling of the Hague Court is the source of our aspirational frustrations. Better said the frustration of those people who expected too much from the Hague Court. When it comes to me personally that someone set me up today or yesterday a dilemma about whether to win the war of Serbs or win the Hague court, I wouldn't have any dilemma. So it's important that we won the war. And that's a fact to begin with. You see, gentlemen, when Vukovar fell that night, I wrote a little essay. It was called "Vukovar or Croatian Book of Genesis." Unlike the current Prime Minister who lives in a peaceful time surrounded by the admiration of his party and a very large public support he can be calm. President Tudjman lived in a troubled bloody time. And when Vukovar fell, he formed a commission consisting of five officers and five lawyers to determine responsibility for the fall of Vukovar. I told him it was the wrong people and that their message was wrong. If Vukovar were the source of inspiration, there should be an eternity-long Serbian frustration. It's not that there was a crime committed on the Ovcara. It's just that a crime has been committed against the city. And that one soldate who has been prepared for 50 years to destroy all internal enemies, conquer and conquer Croatia lost 100 days and a few days over Vukovar and that its spine was broken there. However we judge the Hague, whatever the Security Council says, we must preserve our memory not only of Vukovar's sacrifice but of the great victory of Vukovar. So I would suggest that in a series of measures that we can arrange here in one... One of the arrangements is that, with the symbol of the cross's sacrifice on Ovcara, a great monument of victory shall be erected on, along with the Danube. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also an outflow of the monument Ivan Meštrovic. It was made right for the Serbs. As a memory of a victory in the French Revolution. He's as tall as this about our Parliament. So let the goddess of victory be revealed and remind the Serbs that they lost the war. That they were going to conquer an disarmed people. Whoever disarmed him now doesn't matter at all. We could testify to what time it was. What is important is that there are young men, civilians, journalists, craftsmen, managers in the Zagreb shops where Todoric bought Konzum today, from Varazdin, from Čakovec, from Sibenik, went there and defeated that powerful and powerful army. It's an important fact that needs to be discussed today. Of course, the West has generally not understood what was going on since the first moment, and it did not want to understand. In a large book published by Warren Zimmerman, there is only one sentence compared to Vukovar and Dubrovnik. I had, I published a controversy in "Forign Afair" with his book called "West Side Story" or something like this was called where he said, "At the time of aggression on Vukovar and Dubrovnik, no one recommended a NATO military intervention either." According to this, Vukovar, as you set the prime minister's example, was the reason for the Hague court's creation. The shame of judgment, then, is not only about injustice on us, but it is a shame on the sentencing of that court. That is how we should approach. We must gather and drain one new energy. First of all, those unfortunate people realize that being judged in The Hague could not have been decided otherwise. As soon as Carla del Ponte started hosting, I also saw Vesna Skare-Ozbolt taking her in and laughing at her, and she came to me weakly in the stomach. And when I saw you and Stipe Mesic, I was sick of it. There are therefore some technical opportunities to reduce the level of communication with the prosecution. There's a lot of such small possibilities to be made. Because what's important is that we don't create new illusions that something important is going to happen. However, there may be good news in such a scandalous judgment. I'd like to see General Ante Gotovina be convicted now. Come on, I'm asking you to condemn Ante Gotovina and the criminal army that committed two crimes, a crime against the peace that was tried in Nuerberg and a crime against aggression. Both crimes did not remain in the Hague court's statutes in some way innocent. So I'm going to tell you whatever that verdict didn't throw me too much into misery because I didn't expect too much from her. It would be bad for those unfortunate, if that verdict were about their fate. I ask you nicely, they have defeated, destroyed this, and these evildoers, and the unfortunate, and the mad freaks who have destroyed the city every day. I was in Nustre, and there was a young cop named me who died. You understand every day there were 5,000 missiles on that town or village. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like no mistake to be made today, which was at that time in difficult times, in relation to this verdict. Whatever good it is, it's their destiny. Don't expect too much from the Security Council either. It certainly needs to be done everything in your power. I'd like to do a little bit of work for our president of the state because he's done a lot of damage in every way. And as a protected witness, especially witnesses. Let's just say the corrupt Josip Manulic, what I'm obsessing about in my book, Dusan Bilančić and the various other witnesses from the other hand, who were treated by the court as witnesses, were never in Karadjordjevo or Tikveš, saw anything. Then they called on each other and, in a way, they applied another sacrifice to those people. So I end up with a lot of optimism. I didn't expect anything from The Hague at all, and I wouldn't be disappointed if the Security Council did anything. Of course, I would also like the international community to show that there is some kind of, some sense of justice that is deeply rooted in every Croatian man. And what is currently in Croatia is an emotional earthquake that is related to a deep sense of the justice of small peoples and the injustice that threatens them. But we beat them, they can frigate, they've lost the war and they've lost the field wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95419	Wide field. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected House Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95420	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't get carried away with optimism about this verdict, no matter what we won this Homeland War, that's good, but we'd have to win in The Hague. Because this verdict is unfair, immoral, inappropriate, disproportionate to material law regarding how it should be founded in The Hague. And at the same time, she's fortunately the only optimism that can get away with it. She was brought in in the first degree, and we have to do everything we can to keep her from being confirmed in the second degree. Because she can have far-reaching consequences. I would just like to remind you that according to Resolution 827, if convicted of crimes against humanitarian law, then everyone damaged in this procedure, and also the state and citizens, have the right to seek compensation for both broken houses and destroyed property and for those who were in camps and for those who were killed and killed and for those who were wounded. We must not let it go because of our citizens and our country and because of our history and because of the principle of justice that this place is actually calling out for that place to finally establish peace and lasting co-operation in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95421	Thank you. A few replicas. First, honourable representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95422	Thank you, Mr. President. By agreeing in most of what Mr Letica said both in tone and content, I would nevertheless be replicating one in this context in which we speak very importantly today. It is true that we do not have many opportunities in front of the international community and its institutions. Unfortunately, it is true that these institutions often do not have a lot of opportunities to do so. But I still see I believe this time we have a chance to do something. We have the first chance that I think there is a rather unique reaction in Croatia that is recognised beyond the borders of Croatia simply because it is recognised that the reaction came from a scandalous decision. As evidence of this, I can testify to the debate we had yesterday and the day before yesterday with colleagues from the European Parliament who not only showed full understanding but agreed to put it in a joint declaration. In another situation, let's be honest, that would be very difficult. See, for example, comments as evidence. by the Ambassador of the United States of Croatia. A whole series of international officials who are referring to it. Now, the United Nations must be concerned about the Hague tribunal's behaviour. Not only because of what makes the people of Croatia unsatisfactory, but because it does not serve the purpose it is founded. And I think that on these grounds if I give a good interpretation of the total tone of this debate it's good that we don't share in the basic principle. I think the right moment is when the president of the Croatian government with one serious action the United Nations can do something for Croatia and not sound pretentious even for the international community. Because a court like this with judgments doesn't need anyone, neither Croatia nor the United Nations nor the international community. And another to prove that I'm optimistic, even though I'm a real man and I know that it's not just not entirely unfounded. Let me remind you of the decision of the General Assembly of 1995 under difficult circumstances for Croatia and difficult conditions when we were able to obtain a declaration that confirmed the territorial integrity of Croatia and based on this declaration of the General Assembly all actions taken in Croatia were considered legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95423	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95424	I've gone a little too far in skepticism with the United Nations Security Council. I also think it's a test of conscience. Vukovar is too strong a symbol for the international community. I'm convinced that with the prime minister's efforts, but not to be treated as the way Hebrang treated him, as the only great leader, but to create a team where Mr. Miomir Zuzul will be, and it would be good for my smallness to disrupt the gang there a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95425	That's right. The leaders need to be so they can lead someone. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95426	Here I will also join this change in optics which is still near the end of this long but interesting debate of governments, and that is indeed that we must change the optics and relation to some of the facts of '91. and in the '90s at all. And I think that this fellow Letica, in fact, also made it very clear that perhaps at that very first moment, that commission that was meant to examine the responsibility for the fall of Vukovar was actually set up badly. It should have been different and one true symbol could really be made from Vukovar, in fact, what Vukovar must be in our collective memory. But just to remind you that many then wrote analysis and essays that one of our great poets and politician and liberal, unfortunately the deceased, Vlado Gotovinac in his notes of signs for Croatia wrote that he did not want to believe that what happened in Vukovar that it was only one unfortunate bloody episode but that God had just imagined that something significant would have to happen in space between Vukovar and Dubrovnik, and what would happen would actually depend on ourselves. On the aside that some after this, some deconstructionists, postmodernists mocked the mockery. But it's actually one real message that we can't let it be just one unfortunate bloody episode but just to know that we get positive, right here's the optimistic conjecture from that fact that out of those horrors that were happening there in that time and. thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95427	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95428	A brief replica of his colleagues Kramaric points to the great intellectual damage that the Czech Republic spoke on behalf of the club, and he did not speak as a participant in the Homeland War. As for the enemies themselves on that side, you remember what they were like. Well, the Italians come in for military exercises, so they shoot themselves through two legs, you understand. Those who fought against us, you understand these were evil men, they would have taken us all down and killed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95429	Dear Representative Ivo Loncar, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95430	I listened very carefully to what you said, and I agree with many things. Here is now almost a week, tomorrow will be a week when this shameful verdict was announced for Vukovar and when I was saddened by my great grief, but thank God that it happened, on Croatian television in Dnevnik, I saw those shots taken by ITN, when I saw those corpses immediately I remembered the same terrible images from Auschwitz when the allies came there in 45 years and when we saw those horrible pictures when the bogglers, remember, were digging up those corpses. That reminds me here. And now that man sees it, he sees this Vukovar, he's a Croatian tragedy, he's Croatian pride, he's a Croatian victim, but he's also a Croatian victory. We're talking about these Chetniks that were imported. But we've been discussing today, and we're not talking about our domestic, respectable Chetniks. Here, for example. There's a place in the Vukovar area called Lovas, there was 70 people sent to the minefield, and they were all massacred. One of the men in command who was there was a respected psychiatrist doctor, and instead of a scalpel, he treated mutilated people with a kalashnikov. Here's what we're not talking about. And it seems to me even though I'm wearing glasses, that this respected doctor around here somewhere, I'm even seeing him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95431	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95432	I'm having an emotionally difficult time dealing with this situation, and I'm looking at it a little differently from my colleague Lonchar. So these people must be there in Parliament, they are aware that they have lost the war, they listen to the Croatian anthem, they celebrate Croatia's state and democracy. If they pulled some historical and human sciences, that wouldn't be bad. That's what it looks like to me. Because there's a lot worse than them, you understand. Well, of course we have to live in a modern society and we must never forget those positions of such people, that's where I absolutely agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95433	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95434	Your Honor, Mr. President. Look, from this whole set of measures of political and legal and diplomatic that the former and current government could take, we finally have three letters, one letter from the late Racan and two letters from the current Prime Minister Sanader. You say you take serious steps. We took some steps together when one of the generals came to us in the phase while he was a suspect and he cried, so we suggested that a commission be set up to provide legal logistics and other help with documentation. Unfortunately, that commission didn't do anything. Then we suggested establishing an investigative commission and seeing how and how the transcripts from the President's Office were handled, which he gave unauthorized. Unfortunately, there was nothing there either, because Carla opposed it. Then we made a further proposal to form the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Centre, to do the documentation of the materials, to add it all together in one place, to write our truth about the Homeland War, to translate it into all languages, all parliaments, international institutions. We also did not do what we say Israel does and what it always responds in good time. So it's all there, this set of measures that we've proposed here together, and what you're saying now, and what the government is responding to is one of the attempts to calm the public down because the fact that this verdict can't be expected much in some appeal procedure, we know what the rules of the appeal are. The situation is more than difficult. And not to say that we do not have exit strategies for the trial of General Gotovina and Markac, unlike The Hague, whose exit strategy is clear. So these measures don't mean anything because we know that we've proposed for four years, we haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95435	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95436	I have to agree that we've proposed something, and that was very clever, and I have to agree that a lot of it hasn't been adopted. But now we're where we are. I'm private here, I'll tell you, I signed on Ban Jelačić Square as a private person in jeans and without ties, as it would say, appeal to angry people. But when a man is responsible, then he must act as a responsible citizen and see new details that can be done. I think it's here and it's pleasantly surprised me, the prime minister reacted very quickly and cunningly, I almost would say about bio-cow, actually for Moscow wisdom, and I'm very pleased with that reaction, just don't give up now. You let go of the waterfront, because there's going to be new waterfronts. Now it's a new waterfront, and we can go to the Xth constituency and talk again on the waterfront. Who knows what's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95437	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95438	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister. The fact that the judgment for the massacre on Ovcara is a cold and quite unpleasant shock for Croatian citizens, for Vukovars, especially when looking at and comparing the verdict given to Milan Martic for the shelling of Zagreb, which he received 35 years in prison. This is definitely the defeat of the prosecution, but this is both defeat and justice and truth. I'm going to analyze this verdict a little bit. The discharge council... freed Miroslav Radic of all charges, while Veselin Sljivancanin and Mila Mrksic found guilty of crimes of murder and torture in Ovcara. Sljivancanin was found guilty only on the ground of the torture charge while Mrksic was proved three points: murder, torture and inhumane treatment, and for this he was punished by 20 years in prison, and Sljivancanin for being proven one point in the indictment by 5 years in prison. So of the eight counts of prosecution, prosecutor Marks Moore was convincing in front of judges in just three, which is less than 50% of the charge. And now the fact is that the murder of over 300 people is not responsible for any of these three, but the fact that the chances of a court of appeal because 50% of the charges, more than 50% of the charges, have dropped very questionable. And the prime minister says he will sue the work of the Hague court, and I think that it should primarily sue the work of the prosecution to the United Nations Security Council, that's fine, but that's not enough. Because what the United Nations, or the Security Council, will say. Will they have a political impact on the Hague court? He won't. No, because someone there will tell our prime minister when he gets to New York, so you've had your own legal options affecting the procedure, so you haven't done it. So they're going to ask him why the government hasn't intervened as Mikus... in the case of Mrksic and the Werewolves. The government obviously did not apply for that status to be granted to her in the case of a werewolf troika. And the status of a friend of the court would allow Croatia to appear before the court and help to shed light solely on legal issues, and there was such a question here in this indictment. And now with this non-engagement, the government has practically allowed this legal question to be answered in the verdict of the "Vukovar Troika" unfortunately there was no international conflict in Croatia. I am now asking for the fifth time why did the Ministry of Justice, or the Government, not make it a government official last year? I ask the prime minister when the Justice Minister is here, and the prime minister plays the minister of justice. Unfortunately, this failure by Croatian bodies is astounding, primarily because the tribunal has already decided once in a case against Milosevic and ruled there that there has been an international conflict in Croatia. Now in the "Vukovar Troika" process, the thesis is not being presented, but rather the opposite is that there was no international conflict in Croatia, but that there was practically an internal conflict, i.e. a civil war. And that is why the claim that Croatia has experienced aggression has dropped. Also the backbone of the indictment is a joint criminal enterprise which also fell in court. So the council has removed responsibility from the Yugoslav People's Army for the crime in Ovcara. If it wasn't an aggression, so if there was no international conflict, if the Yugoslav People's Army wasn't responsible, if the victims in Ovcara were not civilians, then the question is what happened and there was a government representative who had to intervened in the process last year before the Hague court. That's what I'm talking about, talking and talking about, but of course you can speak politically this or that, but the fact is that this will have serious consequences for obtaining a genocide suit against Serbia. They won't be able to deal with this kind of thesis if they remain to justify the arguments of the genocide suit against Yugoslavia. And when we lose that lawsuit, what happens? Then we'll discuss this again here in Parliament about this and that. And that's why I'm asking the prime minister again who from the ministry or the authorities followed the trial last year? And why didn't he call in Carla del Ponte when the evidence came down one by one? Even then, it could have been intervened. Unfortunately, there are, of course, no real answers and the question of why it was not called and asked for Serbia to publish darkened documents in the Milosevic procedure, because there were obviously elements and evidence of the link between the military and civil summit in the aggression in Croatia. And of course, since there are no real answers here, only floscules, and the victims are not helped by the wheezing of politicians, but by very active work, and therefore, regardless of what this government has to do, and this will probably say there in the Security Council that it needs to take very active steps to save what can still be saved that, to increase the punishment and to change the nature of aggression, that is, the nature of the attack on Croatia, that it was aggression, not civil war, because if it remains then none of this government, nor all of us here in the Parliament that we are discussing, will be able to save from the responsibility that something should be done, and it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95439	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95440	Mr. President. Mrs. Representative has said incorrect allegations that this government does not care about Vukovar, about our defenders and co-operation with The Hague. My colleagues and I shared a peaceful reintegration from day one to day and we thought some things, believed while we wanted to do something. Let's take that market that the Serbs started digging up, we jumped, you said no, no, I'll handle it. After a few years from... We said no Mrs. She said let go, don't you react, because it was land... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said those criminals we're gonna make out, and eventually they tell us, so you're not normal, and we deal with it, and we hit on Serbs, and you said you only deal with them all, I'll deal with them this, that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, Tudjman said this, that cemetery that we're the morgue, those barcharia domes, they brought down what they did. Then you said what a fool told you, we agreed with our government associates normally, it wasn't Dr. Tudjman and you said you shouldn't have done it. That was three days ago, we made it our way and we took it off, because we don't want to have a Belgrade feature in Vukovar. And there's a lot of things you've tolerated, you've been going through them all the time, you've been working together, and you've been lying to us here. So you can't say that the Croatian government doesn't do today when you lied to us in the eyes, because we couldn't get to Tudjman like we did today, to the vice president on the phone, we were little Perica, and today you're saying the exact opposite of what you were doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95441	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95442	So I'm sick of all the vomit you said. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure is evident because you haven't corrected any of my incorrect allegations. I didn't say this government didn't take care of Vukovar and the defenders. I have to tell you, and I have to remind you now while I was doing reintegration with the honorable people of HDZ you've been smuggling, you've been doing so much dirt that I'm sick and I'm going to get you. Please don't provoke me not to tell you what you did in Vukovar and how this Vukovar is the chaos of your stupid politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95443	Comrade Ozbolt, it's not right that you started with an extremely offensive statement that you're sick. Calm down, buddy! Don't! ... It's extremely offensive behavior. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95444	You're attacking Croatian defenders. Nine months I've been... Because of you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95445	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95446	You're not ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95447	That was the end of...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95448	That you Croatian defenders, I was.../Speakers speak out loud./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95449	My colleagues, Ozbolt, at the very least...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95450	Well, she can't do me. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95451	I give you a warning because it was extremely offensive behavior. You called him a smuggler who was in the camp. That he was in prison when he fought in Vukovar. You can't call him, you can't, it's incorrectly extreme. ... The man who survived the heavy... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95452	About Vukovar, he says one word only... You've been working with Serbs, you've been making deals, and you've been dribbling us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He said Tudjman, you lied to us. You can be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95453	Thank you. Okay. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95454	Wait a minute. ... So calm him down! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Your Honor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95455	Just a minute. Injury of the Businessmen, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am indeed asking you, in violation of Rule 207, 213 and 214. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95457	All three of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95458	You are in charge of the order and I really ask you, I am amazed today and I suffer all the time some of your benevolence towards the advocacy and expressions of the wit of the dialogue between the MPs, taking words without your permission under Article 213 and everything else. You know how to be much stricter in holding a session. This topic deserves more firmness in holding a session than a liberal one like this, and I would say a funny approach at the border of good taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95459	If I was a liberal, I wasn't. I'm still trying to run this debate within the limits of "fer play" and this session of the Parliament ends neatly. The warnings would no longer be achieved because it is known that those to whom they would refer to the educational influence of the reminder proved unsuccessful, so that some other measures may be taken but they are a matter of the future. Maybe they'd be appropriate. And now the replica of the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95460	Mr. President! My colleague, you have said exactly that the verdict goes to the fact that civil war was being waged in the territory of Croatia. The problem with this verdict is that it esculates JNA from any responsibility. And now we're coming into one of the biggest paradoxes since the government has done nothing in the sense that it gets the status of a friend of the court in the trial of this. The only card this government has is Carla del Ponte. Carla del Ponte, she's writing a complaint to that verdict. And we know how and how she worked. And you see where we are now. So now this government is the only confidant Carla del Ponte to write a complaint about this verdict. It's real, you see what position we've come into. We had a chance when the cheese... said how and how Carla acted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same president said we're going to the Security Council, we're going to do this, we're going to do it just to calm the public down. So it seems to me now that all of this and this sharp letter under quotes is also the intention of pacifying the public. And yet, unfortunately, everything will go as it was, and unfortunately, it will end with General Gotovina's trial and the rest. That's why I'm saying, you need to take help from the Self Help Institute, and that's suspension, and then we can just get cooperation with The Hague. Only then can we get the strength to do something. There's nothing like this. Look out! This government is now confident if you watch Carla del Ponte. Well, that's really funny!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95461	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95462	Here, I have to replicate my colleague Kovacevic. Unfortunately, Carla del Ponte is obviously fate in this case, because only through Carla del Ponte, or through the prosecution, can things be repaired or submitted evidence and put forward concrete arguments as to why the court's decision in 50% of the charges is guilty. And that's where the government should sit with the D.A.'s office right now and go to the evidence for evidence, file and see what the prosecution has and what it doesn't have. Obviously, if there is no question, why is there no one here and who has failed in the past tense, why has no evidence been submitted? But definitely the government will have to work with the D.A. in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95463	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95464	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, with most of what you said about our cooperation with The Hague and what we were supposed to do in this case, I agree with that as you said we didn't do enough. But I ask one question to myself and to all of us. What have we done in Croatia about the Sheepman? I'm asking a hypothetical question. I, the man who lives in that space, the Chetnik, the weekend brush, who on the weekends I go to Vukovar and shoot at Vukovar, or else I'm a police officer, after a Croatian policeman, here comes the abolization, and I'm getting an abolized. And I'm asking a question. Is it not now on the list of Croatian defenders and those who may have been on the Ovcara, because we have abolized people who may have done so? And I ask that such cases be investigated and investigated in Croatia and removed from the defence list.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95465	Reply to the replica of MP Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95466	Well, it's definitely time for all the lists to be cleared from those defenses to those accused of war crimes and prosecuted. I will just say that there was a procedure in Belgrade for Ovcara, where, of course, the accused were lower-ranked perpetrators, and then I was the minister of justice and I was very careful how the procedure took place. And those people got the most punishment possible there. It really needs to be analysed and watched how the case goes and what the prosecution is doing in this case. Unfortunately, I repeat, there have been serious failures here, and we haven't received an answer unfortunately from the government, the prime minister or the minister who took this procedure last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95467	Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95468	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on co-operation with The Hague Court because it is actually a topic and the reason for this debate is this verdict has its own can be said both legal and political, and diplomatic, and moral, and economic, and social dimension. And of course, in the ten-minute debate, it's not possible to shed light on and make all arguments about each of these dimensions and some others could be spoken. But what I would like to point out as a previous question again. This verdict is unfair, immoral, inappropriate, disproportionate to material law and is not based on legal instruments, in particular the Statute of the International Criminal Court, and, fortunately, it is unlawful. At the same time, because it is obvious that it is causing a revolution among our population and our citizens, as well as with us people in public and political life. However, revolt is an emotional non- rational response to certain issues and phenomena. The question arises, in fact, what happens if we do not cooperate with The Hague-based court governed by our constitutional law. The first thing I would like to remind you is that at that moment, it is actually worth Resolution 827, and in particular I remind it that the United Nations is acting on it, starting with Chapter VII. The Charter, which means that the establishment of The Hague court was considered one of the instruments for establishing peace in Yugoslavia. The second thing I'd like to remind you is that the resolution is directly in charge of the secretary to implement... in the act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thirdly, I would like to remind myself that the resolution allows all states to regulate certain issues with their legislation, but not to settle this issue with these internal legislation will not prevent the co-operation and application of the resolution. So the question arises what would we get if we cut off cooperation. Well, we'd get a direct application of the resolution and we'd actually get a chance or we'd put ourselves in a situation like a member of the United Nations if we'd opposed the international law of those bodies and those organisations that we're members of. The other thing I'm saying is the question and I express my dissatisfaction and bitterness. Why in the Republic of Croatia, our Government, our bodies in charge of the Government did not use the legal and political instruments at our disposal enough. I'd like to remind you of the '99 Resolution. The year in which the Parliament expressed its political views on co-operation, at the 2000 Declaration, which the Parliament raised views and political issues regarding co-operation. And of course we should apply then the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague Court, the Statute itself and the Rules of Procedure and Evidence. My colleagues and colleagues, I must especially remind myself that the game is big because I would like to quote what I said earlier in one correction, point VII. resolutions. I quote: "It makes a decision that the work of the International Court will not violate the right of victims, that through appropriate procedures they seek compensation for the damage they have suffered by violating international humanitarian law.". The humanitarian right is made up of Geneva conventions and protocols. And here, what these charges are about, and in this judgment, there is actually no humanitarian right, and thus the great possibility for our victims to initiate damages proceedings is denied. So it's a pretty big game. The third thing I would like to point out is that if we can't get into economic, social issues already, and they're about property, lost jobs, many killed and killed, and in return, it would be just as much material compensation as people would get satisfaction for something because justice went into action. Then we must take quite certain measures that will allow the condemnation of infringements of Geneva conventions and humanitarian rights, not by these grounds, as stated here in the ruling. What exactly is it supposed to do? It's not true and it's not enough, I'll say it myself right now. Not only do I support the Government and the President of the Republic in the political and diplomatic moves they have taken but I strongly encourage them to continue and speak in the United Nations and the Security Council, and to write letters to The Hague Court. But legal actions that are important for further action should also be used. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like to say the following. The Statute makes it clear what punishment must be, so I will quote Article 24(2): "In the case of the sentence, the Council shall take into account the full weight of the criminal offence and the personal opportunities of the convicts.". Not to talk about all the other stuff. I would also like to remind myself that in the rules of conduct not only when talking about what punishments should be but also about the question of having to take all the difficult circumstances. For example, in Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure. Or, what is particularly important for further action is the question not only you know diplomatic and political struggles. It can be conducted internationally. It can have and will have repercusions to the political situation in Croatia regarding the upcoming elections, but this will not matter to the court. It could be a pressure instrument. However, for the court it will mean a great deal if rule 108... apply, and it says: "The State directly affected by the Interlocoturnal Council decision may, within 15 days of the date of its decision, submit a request for its review by the Board of Appeal if the decision concerns matters of general importance relating to the court's authority.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, this is very serious, this is about international humanitarian law or some kind of harassment and not to list what is now this verdict... I believe that Croatia has legal powers, has legal knowledge, that there is enough material evidence already collected in that indictment concerning Kadjevic and the others, and also in many other documents that it can unite and file a valid complaint that will require the council to review and allow Croatia to enter the appeal procedure to prove that this is not a verdict based solely on that reduced indictment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even on it, it is not entirely based, but that it must actually cover the violation of international humanitarian law and that it must give proportionate, fair and just punishments which will also play its preventive role, to warn everyone in the future that they do not commit such misdemeanours to man and citizen by violating even humanitarian law. And one more thing that's very important. You know, in addition to the investment in this complaint, and the motion to review the verdict itself for facts that have not been brought into the indictment. Unfortunately, we missed some things on the defendant's proposal. Let's not talk about the appeal procedure now. But it is impossible to explain that at the same time we will ask the Hague Court and will not act in accordance with Article 322(5). Penal Code, Law on Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Croatia. I quote: "The defendant can only be tried in absentia if he is on the run or otherwise not reached by the state authorities and there are particularly important reasons to be tried even though he is absent." I ask the question why the indictment has not been brought up and court proceedings against those who have ordered and planned to execute these acts? Kadievich and others. I remind these three Mrksic, Sljivancanin, Radić as per Article 10. The statute, regardless of how it ends, will no longer be tried in Croatia. And these stories we read in the paper that we're going to ask for extradition and so on. We can look, but we can't judge. Because I'm going to quote the rule... which one says in article 10, remember? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we fought a fierce battle when we passed the Constitutional Law. But it says in paragraph 1: "No person who has already been tried before the International Criminal Tribunal for acts which, according to this Statute, poses a serious violation of international humanitarian law cannot be tried for the same actions before the National Court." The second issue is related to the National Court. If the national court applies a worse or lesser sentence or infringement of proceedings, then the International Criminal Court may dismiss and prosecute. So I have to remind myself of this thing and I'm actually kind of appealing that at the same time more moves are being made. On the one hand, Croatia should be involved in the appeal procedure in a secondary procedure. The second to press charges against, which has already been written and should be put into circulation. Third, the diplomatic activity of the Republic of Croatia will continue through both the government and the president of the Republic and political. The fourth, not to abolish co-operation or to abandon cooperation with, with, in accordance with our Constitutional Law, but to ask the Statute and Resolution of the Security Council and the United Nations to, in accordance with what they have tasked with the Security Council... Secretary-General to implement, ensure the implementation of these documents and co-operation with The Hague in order to achieve, in fact, the fundamental principle, the principle of justice and condemnation of those who have caused war crimes and committed war crimes and the violation of humanitarian rights in this process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95469	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95470	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that a procedure cannot be initiated before the Croatian judiciary because Article 11. The constitutional law on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Court of Justice clearly states that the criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice in the Republic of Croatia have been suspended for the purpose of bringing the criminal proceedings to the International Criminal Court may be remanded before the competent court of the Republic of Croatia if the International Criminal Court has not decided by its verdict that the defendant is guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95471	Okay, that is, the second rule is "non bis and i am" if it is factually, identically, in fact, then the principle of "non bis and i am" applies. If there is a difference then it can also be processed in domestic legislation, yes. But that's, yeah. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95472	I'm just glad that Mr. Arlovic mentioned this part that it's an illusion and that it's the same as the president of the state and I don't know who else was saying that we're going to judge in Croatia and others. That's impossible legal. If this first-degree verdict remains no theory, there is no way that we can open the trial and let's not fool the public because this article cannot be applied, Mr. Djakic, as you have spoken. There's also no way we're gonna be able to judge anyone else. We can also deliver Kadijavić in absentia, but we also know that Croatia will never deliver Kadijavić or anyone else because it also has provisions in its Constitution that it will not, its citizens will not deliver to other countries for trial. So let us be aware and realistic. We've made a lot of bad moves, but the worst thing about this is that we're throwing all the cards at Carla del Ponte that put us in the same situation we're in right now. Because Mr. Arlovich, be sure, you think someone from the government is going to run this section for reviewing the verdict? You think there's something really much you can do? It cannot be done when she has made such an accusation so that it is possible in the appeal procedure to extend the part that should have been done to ensure that it was good cooperation and that the Croatian Government, or the Croatian Government, was the former one to take care of all this. Unfortunately, it wasn't run and it came, what we warned would happen because nothing systematic was done, and that's the consequence of it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95473	Reply to the replica of Vice-President, Honored Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95474	... precise enough, and that's why I have to answer. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] I was quoting article 10. The Statute and I will repeat again: "It cannot be tried for the same acts in which the International Criminal Court was tried." So there is no retrial. ... But that doesn't mean that any of these three people can't be convicted of any other acts that, by which the International Court has neither tried nor ruled. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's something, it's something else, and in such a situation only precision does that part have to be considered. And the other part around the replica. Look, here it's very clear what this involvement is really about, or filing a complaint. As regards the review by the Board of Appeal, if the decision concerns a matter of general importance relating to the court's authority. One of these questions in the appeal procedure is among other things the question of evidence... whether this has been done to justify and present evidence. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] In our complaint, it must be challenged if some of the evidence is not presented in the indictment and brought to the attention of the court that it could actually be properly tried by the court and that the court would take them into account a different verdict in the second degree and take account of it. And the last thing I'm going to say in this, in response to this replica. Look, don't ignore the fact. This, though, is a question that I'm reluctant to engage in, but I'm going to say it because it's a very sensitive subject. Perhaps here he wants to create a legal basis so that no judgment is actually brought against the violation of international humanitarian law which eliminates compensation for damages. And perhaps at the same time some of the defendants through punishment or through reduced sentences are eligible because they could be crown witnesses against someone far more important, protected witnesses like the accused... Don't forget that his troops were executors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95475	Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had no intention of speaking in an individual debate, unfortunately some debates by HDZ representatives have asked me to take the word out after all. In fact, in the opening statement on behalf of the club, I was rather restrained because I really didn't want it to end up being politicized and that the HDZ and HSP clashed over this matter. Unfortunately, our good will that I showed behind the pay phone downstairs tried to turn in a speech on behalf of Dr. Hebrang's club as a saw upside down, and that's where they began to share practically our lessons, the Croatian right parties in a way that I don't know, a political trick, that it's some pre-election tactics. And it's simple for both the party and me personally, because I was talking on behalf of the club forcing me to turn in a different way than I used to say here on behalf of the club. And I'm just going to say that again only and again, based solely on the facts and on the trace of the speech that hebrang was speaking on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. And I will begin with the fact that, indeed, today through the debate, it is too much again, like, for who knows which way, practically scares the Croatian public when someone has clear views that doesn't change 10, 11 years of important political issues in Croatia. So his colleague and Hebrang said that there was no sin when the Constitutional Court Law was passed. So President Sanader spoke about the fact that President Tudjman, too, was the one who passed the Constitutional Law on cooperation at his intervention and request, not ordinary law, and that was not a mistake either. Well, then, if it wasn't a mistake later and working with The Hague and the Flash and Storm, then there was no mistake. So by what we heard on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, there was no mistake, and I say there were mistakes. There were mistakes, and there were great mistakes. Because when President Tudjman was called here, and you all know very well in HDZ that while he was alive, there was no chance that there was no chance that "Glass" and "Storm" would come under The Hague's jurisdiction. The decision was made by a declaration when the third-month authority came on, here in the Croatian Parliament had a majority. At that time, the Croatian Democratic Union decided on its main committee that when it came to power, it would annul the decision. During the vote on the declaration HDZ also left the Assembly and the Croatian Party of Rights. We didn't vote on that declaration. HDZ returned to power and continued to act on that declaration. I'm only talking about facts now, when I'm talking about no mistakes. I'm also talking about consistency after that. We must also stress that the co-operation with The Hague court four years ago was indeed a radically different position of the Croatian Democratic Community, which is what we supported. And here, whenever the Split Riviera was mentioned in any context, there was jealousy and dissatisfaction on your part. I was at that rally, too. And I spoke at that rally. I'd say the most appropriate thing compared to all the other speakers. However, after coming to power, something must have changed. It was going again as Dr. Hebrang said, and it wasn't wrong then. So there was no mistake on the Split Riviera either, and there was no mistake in receiving the parliamentary majority here in the Croatian National Assembly. And then we'll remind you of General Gotovina's case. On the fact that the action plan violated a whole series of Croatian positive laws and fundamental human rights and that even with the logistics that led one media campaign to show it both as such and as to justify the situation under which the current Croatian government implemented the action plan did its utmost to reach General Gotovina. Then those charges came along. So against Markac, Cermak and Gotovina. And it was all done to be in the Croatian Parliament, so that there was no first debate so that it would be delayed until it was obtained I don't know a positive avis, or later there would be a debate to speak only on behalf of clubs so that it wouldn't be complicated, so it wouldn't get sharpened, so it wouldn't be done as damage to Croatia. And so on and on. And so every once in a while, because of some of the higher interests, it was forgotten what was happening in '91. years, what everyone talked about today more or less emotionally. Well, then, often, that syntagma is used, Mr. President, as if it takes reason not only with the heart. I think in these 11 years, we've been like a party around The Hague always balanced and rational and with a heart. Because you can't run politics without a heart. So she must have both hearts and be rational. But sometimes moves that were not popular must be taken in politics, as the Croatian Prime Minister said. And he's right when he says that. But these moves, which were not once popular, did not always have to go to the side of that foreign policy to determine and determine the internal political relations in Croatia and that it always has reflections very difficult and very complex on our internal relations, and this was just the case in The Hague, in the frequent humiliations that we had as a Croatian society and as a Croatian policy. And always all by justifying higher interests. More interesting, however someone put it, and as pathetic as that may sound, there is no dignity or pride of the people. I respect everything that colleagues on this side or on this side have done in the defence of the Croatian state. Let's not dictate who everything in the war was, who did what, how much he contributed. I believe that all parliamentary representatives have also contributed in all terms to the construction of the Croatian state. But of course someone has come a bigger personal crossroad, I don't know, than Perica Mlinarić or anyone else who has passed both camps and been in the Croatian Army active, etc. But we have the view that it cannot be called political and I do not know some traps as he called his fellow Hebrang or tricks a request, a consistent request by the Croatian party of rights that has stood 11 years in the same political position over how he co-operated with The Hague court. We're legalists and legitimateists. And we faced each other, opposed many laws in the Croatian Parliament. But when he was adopted, we respected him. And we didn't make this story that just happened at this time. It's a set of circumstances. That this topic has become a theme in the election itself. Is it because two months before the elections, we should be silent about what we've been talking about all these years in the same way and in the same way? And because of that, of course, they had a whole series of political repercussions and about the party and not to speak any further. We could be tied up because of our views around The Hague and spit and insult and ridicule, etc. And now it would really be incorrect of us, irresponsiblely, if we in the finale of this story about the Hague tribunal weren't we representing those attitudes and those thematics that we and the programmes that we had advocated for 11 years. And I don't think it was really right to put it in the context of a pre-election campaign that tried to frame us here. And yet I say on the trail, Mr. President, the fact that I was very abstentioned when I spoke about the Assembly speaker, not exacerbating the situation in the Croatian Parliament, because I think finally that when people are asked that they can't be wrong. We're everything The Hague asked us to do, we've given more than that, and more than what Pero says, than what we were asked to do, but really everything. There are no more Hague indictments for us, and why should we in Croatia give more punishments than these Sljivancans in The Hague? One Norac received almost three times the penalty for Gospić than was given by a Sljivancan in The Hague. Today, in Croatia, there are three Croatian generals who are in prison, some who are free to defend themselves on these charges, etc. Therefore, the intensity of our request to suspend this Constitutional Law goes on to trace that at the end of all the obligations that we have had as a state and as a society and policy that has done and done, we ultimately give the people a chance to save the remains of the dignity that Haag has taken from us for years in a very perfidious, in one very dirty, in one insidious way. And what were we cooking for? From surrendering... the transcripts illegally, from being one mud of mutual accusations to breaking and defending our Croatian generals now in The Hague. So the situation is catastrophic and the people wouldn't be like this, I'm sorry I see my redness, the people wouldn't react like this just because of the verdict on these three if it wasn't for the drop that spilled the glass. And let's not worry about that, and let's not worry about it because it's really the time of the election, to accuse each other of some narrow partying, but it's really time that, at the end of the Hague story, the Croatian people show their political will over it. I think that's the least the Croatian people and the victims of Vukovar deserve. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95477	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95478	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, here's my colleague Djapic quoted me 16 times, of which 14 times wrong, but in due time I'll only make two corrections. First he said I was wrong when I said there was no mistake. That's not true. I said that there were no major mistakes, because if Croatia had not been one of the most successful countries in the transition, it would not have been the winner of the war against the Serb aggressor, it would not have introduced democracy and the rule of law shortly after the war. So I said there were no bigger mistakes and it was misquoted that there was no mistake. Secondly, he accused me of being incorrect again, that I told him to politicize with the referendum. I literally said that his decision on the referendum has the smell of politics. Why? Because it was brought a month before the election campaign. Why, if he didn't have pre-election intentions, he didn't bring it after the election, when after the election a year was due to solve the prosecution's lawsuit in The Hague. So he wouldn't lose anything if he'd made that decision after the election, he'd be convincing, he's so inconclusive because politics is very serious... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95479	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95480	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct only one of the incorrect allegations of fellow Djapic, where he claimed that such a procedure and referendum would end the Hague story. It wouldn't be the end. The end of the Hague story will be the moment when all legal, legal and diplomatic means are exploited in battle with the Hague tribunal, and not by bringing the national issue and the state of Croatia into any danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95481	Replica, a respected representative and vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95482	Mr. President. Dear fellow Djapic, of course I will not talk about the circumstances under which we brought the Declaration of Cooperation with the International Criminal Court in Den Hague on 14 April 2000. That's what you said yourself. I won't even challenge your right or HDZ at the time to vote against, but I'd like to remind you of something. Point 4 of the principled statement states: "In the development of cooperation with the International Court of Justice in the Den Hague, Croatia will advocate a proper co-operation relationship in the prosecution and trial of war crimes indictees." In point 5: "The Croatian Parliament calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue co-operation with the International Criminal Court of the Den Hague in the framework of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation, which this House of Parliament adopted on 19 April 96, in accordance with the international commitments and conclusions of this declaration," I stress "by always counting on the protection of the national interests and dignity of Croatian people and Croatian states." Well, then in concrete measures, point two, I don't want everything, just some. Point 2: "To speed up the work on the detection of war crimes and their perpetrators, the one at the collection of evidence without waiting for this incentive from the International Criminal Court." The result is the indictment against Kadjevic and others, until then there was no indictment. And at the end of the last, last 9th point, I'm going to quote, I'm not going to quote all 10 points of concrete action, but it's very important and current for today. "To insist that all proceedings before the International Criminal Court speed up, warn of the court's failures and inconsistencies." This is a declaration that is still in force. It is in accordance with our Constitution, Article 80 of the Political Document, which the Parliament expresses its political will as well as that of the 99th resolution that was adopted at the time of the HDZ government. Neither, nor was the other respected regarding this situation, and I would like to remind you that the need to arrest and process Mrksic, Sljivancanin and Radic is mentioned in that resolution. Therefore, we colleagues have brought some documents, but what is weak Croatian is not the implementation of our own, not only when it comes to the international community, but also when it comes to us sometimes regulation, we forget them, we leave them for an inert one will already do so. No, he won't. We must learn that the state must not only have instruments of action but also bodies that will act and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95483	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95484	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Vice President, and I hope the Prime Minister is also watching TV and this in some place. I have to admit that, in fact, every time again, I'm a little fascinated by one fact that we're actually almost masochistically inclined to claim that none of our moves, no decision in the past has been good. You know they say the world is chaotic, that the world of chaos he would have fallen apart. It is also obvious that many of our decisions have not been as bad as we tended to qualify them. What we're really constantly avoiding are these very important topics, which is that we don't contextualize when what happened. We mostly have no context, and mostly we look at things from this day-to-day political optics. But that day-to-day political optics is always true, it's always the optics of whether we're a position, whether we're an opposition, and certainly if you're long or if you're the only position that you're in any way entitled to this kind of consistency, but there's a big question about how we behave that at certain times we've had a little bit of that sweet responsibility to make some decisions too. Here's hoping that fellow Djapic won't be angry, but he'll only actually confirm it. Let's just say when he came to town two years ago, she was a little bit of a threat to how he would treat minority communities. In fact, since some relationships have been established all that and he wanted him to actually behave in accordance with the situation found and those relations with minority communities continue to be just that, precisely because they were good foundations and what they can't really behave differently. That's right, and when we go in with our relationship with this Hague tribunal, it's a big question of what we would do if we were in a situation in '96. the years were a position. But that's why I'm saying first of all I'm going to just avoid this little habit, one bad habit that we're actually talking about the past as something that, where no move has gone well. Of course that doesn't mean that they've only made the best moves, I think that's what fellow Hebrang also said that the context could be quite unpleasant and that they've been drawn and very and unpopular moves and that there were even testimony in this Parliament when they passed certain laws, declarations, even that mild resistance, but it was about prevailing, someone calling it rationality, someone calling it higher national interests and I'm just saying some times it's and past... Perhaps we voted for certain things both by January 3rd and January 3rd all by believing that we were actually doing well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This decision, now, by the Hague tribunal, has shown that there is indeed the highest possible degree of consent in Croatia when it comes to a shameful verdict and what I fear, which is that this verdict relativated actually a crime. It's something that's actually the most tragic, or institution that has to take care of, exactly how crimes are properly punished, it's relativated with its own judgment. I don't think I'd want to get into one hysteria, I was planning on talking about some conspiracy, about a conspiracy, and that it's not about the work of a globalisation strategy in equating guilt exactly to actually be the real causes of everything that's been going on in the premises of the former Yugoslavia of the '90s in some way I'm saying again that it comes down to a neighbor's reckoning, or civil war, and that we actually stay exclusively in that story. That's what I'm saying was, it was very dangerous and thesis and I think that because of your credibility, it's because of the future that we have to determine ourselves in the right way. Today some of the same people before me were talking about exactly what Vukovar is to us and what we actually did everything to make this Vukovar really what he must be in collective memory. The most dangerous thing is if that whole story comes down to November 18th. Then we have a ritual visit to that victim town, we bow down to those victims, and actually something between them is absolutely nothing happening. I remember you in '91. Let's say the great actions of young Croatian students, not only of the Croatian students in Paris, when they change the name of one station on the subway, and they're just putting Vukovar in with that double "w" just suggesting what's going on there, and it's exactly that kind of performance that needed that international community that was pretty inert, which was kind of late in some of its actions that this crime is actually happening not only in Vukovar, but in most parts of the Republic of Croatia to prevent. These are the things that need to be reminded and renewed over and over again. So the second question is, what is our relationship to The Hague exactly? I think our relationship with The Hague is very, very strange. We have voted Constitutional Law, remember that we have actually lived for a number of years under this pressure, that one point of full co-operation with the Hague tribunal was actually the condition of all our positive integration processes and that this was required of us. I also have the impression that we have treated this lightly as a little bit, like that unwanted object, some way towards The Hague we've always actually had a certain aversion again in a certain situation, always created the same one again from the day-to-day political optics story that there's only punishment for our side, that the court is unfair, that it's political, and I don't think it was a good approach. The Hague has, however, done some things here and here and forced us to speed things up and to understand right now that the rule of law, trust, autonomy, independence of the judiciary are some things that we also have to face those bad episodes that happened during the Homeland War. It's no problem to watch this federal television, this Bosnian TV. If I'm not mistaken, it seems to me to have a week of one show, a week, a day, I don't know exactly which one exactly where that 60-minute-long recapitalization of what happened in The Hague that week. ... Right? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. And in fact, it shows a completely different view of that fact, bravely facing all those things let's tell the judgments that might not every time be like this last one that was really a point on and, which showed just all the failure and all, in fact, all the impotence and giving up exactly from detecting the right things, and that's not knowing that the top of the Yugoslav People's Army remains spared in this judgment where eclatively I know that some... Panic, some Bratić who was there and died that they were, and indeed, that this First Army area, the Novosad Corps and all those motorized units from Valjev, from where they participated, and that the whole story actually ends up still on three dots of the cyber criminals of which even one of them will eventually be freed which is really, which I really must admit is out of every sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But they're dots of zibners in this story. Pic zibners. And that's exactly what I'm saying is the biggest problem and then it's causing further frustration. You know, it's that further frustration. Here, I speak from the perspective of the war mayor of Osijek. In my town, over a thousand people died during the Homeland War. It's registered at the Osijek Clinical Hospital. Over a thousand people were in the city of Osijek that year and a few days of aggression died. Mostly civilians, women, children, etc. It is known which JNA units were in the city, which were around the city, it is known who were in command, but unfortunately too little, that's now the part, too little, that's things that don't... It's on its own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's exactly the fact that it's causing further frustration. I, too, must now say the same intellectual political concerns now, why Western democracy did not recognize what was happening in Croatia in the 1990s, what Kant would say, that this is progress towards better humanity. We didn't mean, it didn't count as one progressive event. That's what's bothering me. We have only been recognized as a victim and this very fact that we are the victim in some way determines our modern identity as a Croatian citizen. It's one very, it's, long-term it's a dangerous consciousness. And that's what I, as well as a liberal, as well as a politician, as well as a citizen, would actually have to jump out of that story about the victim. We have to explain exactly that those processes of the '90s are in these areas, because of them I participated in these processes precisely because I believed that this was a contribution to mankind's progress towards the better. If that's Kantov, if you want to assess something progressive, then that must be progress towards a better one. I was deeply convinced that this was progress towards the better, and therefore, what is said in heart logic and logic, I also told Pascal's mind in that whole story. Because that's what I've been seeing as something that's progressing. And that is why I would ask my colleagues to move away, to remove this policy from leaving The Hague in the sphere of justice and to make it our request in some way and to help some of our resolutions, conclusions and prime ministers when they address the Security Council in the United Nations in Washington on 15 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95485	And let it be Kant's categorical imperative or... Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Rosic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95486	I really heard a replica today, but I can't take this. I hope this was the lapus of fellow Kramaric when he finally said to leave The Hague in the realm of justice. I really think that today we've been having a debate just because The Hague isn't in the realm of justice. Well, maybe you should point it in that domain somehow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95487	Reply to the replica, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95488	It's the only chance actually, the only chance that he really stays in the realm of justice and justice and no different. Dear colleague Rožić, don't think, I don't think the lapus was but really from the context of my entire debate is aimed at including politics then in this political game we lose. We lose rawly, and that's one zero, but five zeroes. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95489	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here's the debate!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95490	Thank you very much. Yeah, I'm actually gonna keep going. Great. Yeah, we're really losing, and I don't know how many zeros we're losing it with anyway. You know, I'm really sorry there's no Prime Minister here right now. Maybe he listens to me or follows me through one of the media because I wanted to ask him a few questions, and I'm not sure that unfortunately Madam Prime Minister might be able to answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95491	It will, it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95492	Maybe he will. I hope so. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Eleven years ago, I claimed that the Hague court was established among other things as an instrument of political pressure then on a young Croatian state. Maybe I was wrong. I still think I was right. Today, however, I regret to conclude that not only has it been established and that it has been established as an instrument of political pressure on Croatia but it has also been established as an instrument for the abolization of Serbian aggression and its truly monstrous crime. Because the crime in Vukovar must be among the most monstrous in European history. Many colleagues here before me and in the name of clubs and personally described dilettantism and the unprofessionalness of the prosecution and the injustice of the court verdict, and I will not deal with it. But let me remember myself and remind you all and remind you that I also proposed ten years ago in the County House the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Centre, one institution that needed to unite all archives, all documents, all documents and all of them in many addresses. Study them, study them, deal with scientific processing of these archives, etc. All governments and all government presidents from that far away 1997 to this day always, whenever the idea appeared again in the Croatian Parliament, and it appeared twice again, expressed their agreement with the idea and promised to be realized. Unfortunately for me, and for God's sake, yours has not yet been accomplished. So today I feel really frustrated and miserable and I have to say that I sincerely feel sympathy for the families of the dead in Vukovar, Ovcara and all that massacre where these three indictees, one of whom is almost untrustworthy, declared innocent, committed. So I'm asking myself a question. Today, there have been a lot of stories about this cooperation and simply the inevitability of our cooperation with The Hague and The Hague. Cooperation. What's that? What did we experience as co-operation? What has been co-operation in recent years with The Hague Court? Was this co-operation a collection of evidence, documents on crimes, on aggression, on rebellion, on the role of JNA in all of it, etc., or was that co-operation in this policy Croatian understood as some sort of action plan that could be summed up in that famous sentence "located, arrested and delivered"? I don't think I'd be able to see any other cooperation. I can't just do it. If there is one she is so hidden from the Croatian public and also from us MPs that I almost don't remember her. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, though, that, for example, from the Croatian The Hague prosecution, it went or was made available far more documents for indictments against Croatian defendants than for all "Mrksic", "Sljivancanine" and "Work" together. Where are our Croatian documents that we delivered on their guilt to The Hague? How many are there? Isn't it devastating for Croatian politics that one Savo Strbac is more efficient and productive than the Croatian authorities all these years when it comes to supporting various charges? This disgraceful verdict is the result of the UN's political instrumentalisation of the Hague court and I don't think there's anyone so naive in Croatia who's going to deny that fact anymore. But it is also the consequence of convincing our ruling policies that the court is not political, that The Hague is a judicial issue rather than a political issue. In one word, Croatian governments acted as if someone else were going to do their job, as if someone else were going to collect evidence, witnesses, experts, etc., as if someone else would use their diplomacy and their political abilities and advantages to secure influence on The Hague prosecution. Who's the other guy supposed to be? What country? What friends of ours in the world should actually use their credibility when we do not use it ourselves? And today I'm asking myself, all of you and Mr. Prime Minister, who has briefly crossed the corridor here who says, said today Mr. Prime Minister of the Government that the Hague court has brought this verdict to question the meaning of its existence. Yes, that's right, we all agree that he questioned the meaning of his existence. But isn't it suspicious to Mr. Prime Minister that the Hague court has done so in the judgment of the Serb crimes in Croatia, and that is precisely in Vukovar the greatest and most cruel crime of Serbian and JNA aggression on Croatia that has ever been committed. And finally, who by Mr. Prime Minister or by you has made an appointment? The prosecution that our defenders, and you know the defenders, are the ones who defend against the attack. This prosecution that accuses them of a criminal enterprise and aggressor doesn't accuse them of a criminal enterprise or genocide. Could he have scheduled a court that was claimed not to be a political court at all, that he was free from political influences? Have the parties in the procedure of which some like the Croatian state acted inadmissibly casually and automatically in this co-operation, in this regard to The Hague court? And so, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, pass on and do something I'm going to ask you to do and pass it on to the Prime Minister. Please start that diplomacy already if she didn't die in the meantime. The prime minister says he called four Prime Ministers himself. Oh, listen, so where are these ambassadors who should have asked for a long time ago to join all prime ministers in the countries where they work and represent Croatian interests? What was that on his phone call to the Prime Ministers? Where's that diplomacy? What's going on? Let's put together this expert team once and for all, which will be logistics for all needs and our defendants, as well as prosecutions for proceedings against the opposite party. Give it a once-in-a-lifetime activation of the State's Attorney's Office and start processes against these monsters who committed crimes in Croatia. Do something at last, so that this debate is not only at the end of another spent day in the Croatian Parliament about the embarassment of the unsustainable verdicts of the aggressors, criminals and monsters of the crimes in Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95493	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95494	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President. Today's debate on events and the gravity of the UN tribunal's indictments against the executioner of the Croatian peoples of innocents, minors against civilians, wounded persons, as well as against the International Community and the International Red Cross, who was then present at the premises of Vukovar, is certainly for every conviction. However, today in this Croatian House, however, a dose of individual politics that has never been involved in the debate in the protection of Croatian interests can certainly be felt, and many times have neither participated in defence nor helped to create a state, nor in any other way of establishing independence and independence. And therefore, through this entire afternoon debate, it is evident that there is what is pre-election activity, both individuals and parties. I would refer to what is real if today there was no need for a resolution because they were passed, no declaration, and they were passed. There's no need for conclusions, and they've been made. There's a simple thing, and it's an indictment that's been filed, and it stands for ten of the most responsible, along with all those who are even more responsible. They listed today throughout the debate, there are clear arguments and testimonies of hundreds of prisoners, prisoners and Croatian citizens, as well as those who were in the service of the Yugoslav People's Army and managed to escape from the troops of the Guard, the first Guard brigade from Belgrade, the New Sad Corps or other troops that attacked and committed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. That occupied Vukovar and surrounding settlements around Vukovar. You can see clearly through the indictments that are witnesses, which they have stated, who ordered them to do so? Who did the deed? And today, I'm really doing the same thing pretty emotionally every time there are such opportunities because the heart is much faster than the mind. And I personally thought that the only way to go against this was to suspend this constitutional law. However, I slept through the night, thought about it, read all these acts, and if we want Croatia best, and if we want Croatia to really be on the legal grounds, although we suspect this justice and it is not justice, it is visible through the previous resolution that many times the state council said that The Hague court was founded because of the aggression and crimes committed in the occupation, in aggression and in the long-standing terror that was raided in the areas that were occupied. And so it's obvious that all the documents have been brought in. What we're looking for is a referendum. The referendum will be 25.11. when the parliamentary elections are and then the Croatian people will say whether this government has done everything to protect national interests and to fight those who have committed a crime against the Croatian people, to prove it, and the best act is the act of the Prime Minister who, on the same day, convicted, who said it was a disgraceful verdict, that it could not be because 5 years of Sljivancan, who is clearly visible on all screens of Croatia and the world, that he ordered, that he had separated, that he said where the wounded and civilians were led, and where to be executed, clearly and who separated the International Red Cross and the International Community that they could not influence the rescue of the same. He is the most responsible person from all things visible and from the testimonies arising from the indictment that has been filed and that has certainly been used in court. That failures are clear and visible are and should be fought by all means and should not collect political points not to what has now been done as a mistake. Because we have to remember that many times through the history of political thoughtlessness, many times the Croatian people suffered because of the wrong moves made by the top of a particular political option or individuals who made a certain policy in the 7th century of trying to create independence and independence. And therefore today we must be as discreet as we were when... It's necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can say that, as a member of the victims' population and president of HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia, I have certainly reacted as clearly and ambiguously against such first-degree rulings by the Hague tribunal as every time necessary. And I can't make up with it to keep it like this. On one occasion, it is certainly comparable that when judgments or acquittals for this one are certainly not similar to today's Croatian laws that speak of traffic or any other criminal acts, because 30 days when all the victims who, apart from pain, have been divided against the psychological traumas and all that the Croatian people have experienced in aggression and what has been imposed by these carnivores who surely committed by all the witnesses of this massacre. This, this unseen in the world, in fact, which is not remembered by a blood crime, must surely be said. And surely, in the next period and the Prime Minister's appearance, and I believe that both the world and Europe and the Hague prosecution will certainly use everything to ensure that those who have committed these acts are justly punished. It is clear that all associations arising from the Homeland War that were in a meeting with the prime minister were both clear and discreetly thinking now and with their hearts, but also with their heads, said they were giving full support to the government and the prime minister in order to stand up against such reckless verdicts and to jump into further legal proceedings and use everything to punish those most responsible and who participated in generations, the massacre without trial, without court. Who, out of hatred for the Croatian people, committed such terrible crimes in Ovcara, in camps across Serbia, and we are certainly convinced that today more than ever we can do this moment when the Croatian people are the hardest to collect cheap political points. Anyone in this House and in Croatia because it certainly does not want Croatia or the Croatian people well. He doesn't want prosperity or progress or stability. He wants isolation from which we must surely escape by all means and move forward with the European developed world. So, not for a long time, I've said a lot more could be said about, facts and arguments stemming from all the documents that are in front of me, and I believe in you all, I want to give full support to the Prime Minister in an effort and to the entire government, as well as to all those who deal with professional matters and help in the presentation of the crime, as well as the defense of our generals, that we will prove the truth, that we will be stripped of our achievements that we have been joined into a criminal organization, because it certainly is not and it does not stand. Because then if that's the case, I should consider myself a criminal because I've been a participant in the Homeland War for seven years. And I therefore believe that this time we will get rid of all those who do not think properly and who have different intentions with the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95495	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95496	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to say a few words just because it's about Vukovar where I witness all the events from first to last to today. This verdict is a shameful one that shocked the people of Vukovar just arrived at the time of the Day of Remembrance. For 15 days, 20, every day we mark the anniversary of the death of one defender by five in a day, three, two, and whatever we go on further and further because the war was on the move. So it's our sad days. But it's just as if they've inflicted more grief on purpose. Because only, I think, is this cynicism, this revenge, because the Croatian state is a young Croatian state created on streams of blood. She's a born but unwanted child of Europe. What the Prime Minister was saying and all the participants today, I thank you for talking about Vukovar with regret and support, so I thank all those who spontaneously gathered on Thursday night in Ovcara without inviting each other, simply people flocked from Vinkovac, from Djakova, from Osijek. So 500 to 600 people gathered. And the biggest surprise was when the president, the vice president, came in one part of the minister. And that's why I thank all those who were there that night in front of the city of Vukovar and my personal name. Some said why the prime minister didn't give a speech. The Prime Minister's here, and we're all here. They just spoke tears, torment and silence and lit candles. It was a sign that, that we were not alone that evening, and since that evening, there is still a wake-up night at the cross on the Danube where every evening the candles and memories of those who died and this injustice that was done to Vukovar are burning. On Saturday, the coordination of nine victims' associations held a big rally and eventually the conclusion was "The Hague is dead". Normally, with the indignation but The Hague is not dead, we will continue to cooperate with The Hague because it is our obligation to correct this injustice. Justice is slow, but I hope it's available. They say in Vukovar, there's a lot of talk about the Sheepdog today. I have to tell you today what maybe a lot of people don't know that there's more to Vukovar than just under 20 Sheepmen. Well, let's just say it's only on the Veleports that 700 people have been killed. "Velepromet", Borovo village, fairground, Trpinska cesta, "Moda text", "Comerc", farm "Lovas", Negoslavci, Trpinja, Botovo settlement. Let's just assume that in Boro's village several buses ended up where only the waves of the Danube know the truth, and unfortunately today we're still looking for five hundred taken and killed. It's a werewolf's grief. But one rule is why those who killed didn't know their neighbors. We have every street in the tomb. Those who are the fifth column are our neighbors who walk freely today, live and work, they point to the finger they need to liquidate. And the problem is the dead don't talk and we don't have much evidence and our judiciary just says you know no one saw. If someone's been taken, the one who took me to a bus he doesn't have today, by the chance that I left, so let's ask, he's free to walk on Vukovar to ask where you turned these people in. He hasn't come under the law yet. I don't know if he'll come. The other night on Vinkovci TV, I called VTV the name and last name of the people who singled out me and my colleagues who aren't here today. Well, here, it's just my contribution to all of us together looking to help us with these five hundred werewolves that mothers are looking for. Now they're no longer looking for who killed them, they're just asking to know about their body, to light a candle and bring flowers. I also thank the vice president who tries daily with exhumations and everything. But that's too slow for us. It's been 10 years since they've been returned, and about 16, 17 years now, these people are not known about them. Well, here's everything I'm asking you to do together as much as possible for these missing persons of ours. And that the judiciary hastens a little bit so that those who walk, who defy us today, who take the social welfare out of Serbia, come by the social community, to somehow prevent it from robbing the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95497	Thank you. Final review, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95498	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, I would like to thank the government for the debate on constructive proposals. I would like to say once again on behalf of the Government what the Prime Minister has repeated several times, announcing all the moves he will make personally, that he has already done on behalf of the Government and of course going to the United Nations, that we will indeed do everything for the dignity of the victims, for their satisfaction. Mr. Mlinaric just spoke some concrete information. Ladies and gentlemen, with a thousand 105 missing persons we're looking for still on the 1991 census, I have to say 340 are right out of Vukovar, so taken from Vukovar. As you know 61 people from the hospital. So these are the victims who have become the symbol of both the defences and the sufferings of Croatia, and certainly the government will do everything I repeat once again for their dignity. Because that's what we do for ourselves today, but first of all we do for Croatia's future. So I thank you for all the constructive suggestions. I thank you that most of you have also provided support to the government and the prime minister in all announced steps, but I repeat to those who have already been made and I believe that at the end of the debate, so when this item of the agenda is voted on, and the concrete conclusions I repeat will be to support the prime minister once he has gone to the United Nations and to support his speech that will be held there. In conclusion, I think it should be said that all these victims you spoke of today deserve both mutual and respect, but only respect, but they also deserve one pride because that's what you've been talking about so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95499	Thank you. And the final Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95500	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finally going to say something on behalf of the government and on my own behalf and on behalf of the party that I have the honour of being in charge of, I think it's important to say. Someone here mentioned it, and it is that we all here tonight and all of Croatia, and I think the European public has compassion for the victims of Vukovar and Ovčara, and that I consider it an unfair and shameful verdict and that when someone said that to me, I think it is a representative of Kovacevic, that we are left with only hope. No hope, we expect it, and we ask the Hague Prosecutor's Office to file a complaint, and not at the end of an appeal period of 30 days, but before that, and we have the right to expect from the Board of Appeal not the same thing someone's been saying for a year, I think it's dr. Hebrang mentioned, rather than much earlier because of the victims, because of the terrible massacre, because of the terrible tragedy. So we expect the Hague prosecution not to hope but rather to expect it, file an appeal as soon as possible and that the Board of Appeal will rule differently as soon as possible. That's one thing. And secondly, it is up to us, on every state authority that the victims of Vukovar who fell not only for the defence of Vukovar but for the defence of all of Croatia, is every day that Vukovar resisted more, the rest of Croatia had more day to prepare for the resistance of the aggressor. Therefore, Vukovar is absolutely responsible for Croatia's defence and for Croatia's resistance, it must be for every state government, no matter what authority it is, voters will always decide on it. It must be the focus of attention, there must be Croatian defenders, an association that came from the Homeland War. They're not the burden of this society, they're the conjecture of this society. They are the assumptions of this country and they are the assumption of entering the European Union and NATO. But something about everything, and I think that's what Agent Letica mentioned, he was talking about optimism, I'm going to talk about winning mentality. We in Croatia must change our mentality. This isn't writing history, dear friends. I can't write three judges' history of Croatia. The history of Croatian is written by us. We write and only accept that criticism, not criticism against us, but against the authors of the textbook, that the truth must be written about the Homeland War and even in Croatian textbooks first and self-respect that we must have for ourselves. It starts here in Croatia, then outside and elsewhere. And if we are in a position today that we can speak equally with other countries of Europe and the world about the important challenges of the world in the 21st century, then that's precisely because we're running a policy like this. One thing has to do with the other. Croatia's international position today is significantly different than it was yesterday. We're in a much better position today than we were yesterday. When I speak yesterday, I don't want to define whether it's past the government or before it passed, etc. It is not important at all, but I would like to say that such a responsible policy puts us in a position to participate in important decisions. We didn't want war, we wanted independence. We have bloody won that independence, but we have won, we are winners in the Homeland War and we cannot spread the depression to Croatia that someone else will write history and that we have won the war, and that we are losers in peace is otherwise a Serbian myth, we do not want to and will not use it in Croatia. Therefore, we have won the war, we have the right to seek before the Security Council, before the General Assembly, before the European Parliament to revise this verdict. We have the right to seek the meaning of such a Hague court and I repeat with full responsibility as Prime Minister, I am of the first advocates to cooperate and continue to cooperate with the International Criminal Court in The Hague and should continue, but I will ask a question before the General Assembly of the United Nations. If this verdict remains, is the purpose of the Hague tribunal lost? It's for me. Then is the idea of the Hague tribunal defeated? It is. Because she has just created this idea and the Hague Tribunal to punish criminals, war criminals, and not to release them as it did. So let us respect ourselves, build together Croatia, this winning mentality. Let's not cry and cry. Anyone who comes here, constantly from this Carla del Ponte, we do some kind of grandmother horn like she threatens all of Croatia, it can endanger Croatia. Carla del Ponda cannot endanger anyone, let alone Croatia. It is definitely my position with all due respect to all the institutions and her institution as chief Hague prosecutor. But no one can endanger Croatia. The greatest threat was massive Serbian aggression, and that's where we resisted. If someone tried to threaten Croatia again, they'd get back on their fingers, and we wouldn't, of course, do anything, and when I talk about it, I'm talking about relations with both Slovenia and Montenegro and with Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to borders. Therefore, we are looking for nothing but what is just, which is Croatia, and we are not looking for others. Secondly, when I was talking about our winning mentality, I think, and we must go out, regardless of all this and the election time, above the party interests, and I announce what we have given to begin to do to the monument of Croatian independence in Zagreb, in the centre of Zagreb between the hall "Lisinski" and the City Headship, in Stjepan Radić Square, a monument that we will propose together with the City of Zagreb to build and international competition and to have the weddings there. But we're against him falling into oblivion and the Altar homeland of Medvedgrad. We believe that there should be Tudjman one monument, I don't think the Tudjman monument should be in the city of Zagreb, but Tudjman's memorial and that we respect each other when it comes to national interests. We will fight for voter favor and we will be tough rivals, but when it comes to national interests, I think it is not good that every new government that comes cancels what the previous one did, because we in Croatia don't have so much human potential or so many ideas that we can make up new ones every time. And that's why we were against changing national holidays, which is why we were against having the Honorary Guard removed from the Bane Courts, and I am in favour of introducing an honorary guard outside the Croatian Parliament and in front of the Bane Courts, and if we win this term, which I am sure, we will achieve this in the second term. He's working Croatian right now. That's why, for the sake of self-respect, for the sake of winning mentality, because of the fact that we're winners of the Homeland War. [[Applause.]] I respect the Croatian party of rights, but please this has nothing to do with the elections. This has to do with the international community's mechanisms. Croatia must respect its constitutional law, Croatia must continue its cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague precisely in order to have full legitimacy so that we can criticise it, so that I can speak here in the Croatian Parliament today, and tomorrow in the General Assembly either in the European Parliament or in the European Union or in the European Police Party where I will seek a statement of this, at a summit in Lisbon that will be held in 2 weeks. So we have mechanisms and something else. I cannot let the fact that 32 associations at the state level presented on Monday in the Croatian government, in the Ban Courts and who have given full support to this particular thing not to go to abolish the constitutional law, not to interrupt co-operation with The Hague, but to try all diplomatic-political actions to warn the world that this is a shameful verdict and that it is trying to change. If those associations have given support, then let's give support. They were people who were on the front line of the battlefield, they were people who were partly among them as well as Petar Mlinaric were in Serbian captivity, they were associations part of the campers and I think that we could and that it would be good to respect them and their opinions, and that's why they were precisely the kind of action I was talking about, for this approach. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-03-0.u95501	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I call on clubs, MPs of parliamentary parties to, let it be, co-ordinator or mentor, the president of the HDZ Representatives Club Mr Luka Bebić to make one resolution, a declaration or an appropriate act to express views through this debate, in particular where the positions of the Croatian Parliament will be expressed according to the condemnation of this unfair, shameless verdict of the Hague court, demands to the government regarding all those activities to be taken by the Government to support the government in its activities of protection of dignity, the dignity of the Homeland War, defenders, victims, victims and convictions of the perpetrators of war crimes. Try to do, agree on such a resolution, and I suggest that the HSP MPs' club formalise the proposal for a conclusion as regards their proposals so that they can vote on this agreed resolution and these conclusions on Friday. Continuing the debate tomorrow at 9:30, the Final Proposal of the Act on the takeover of companies etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments are now sharing the agreed text of the Declaration of the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes in Ovcara and the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia, with the ICC for the former Yugoslavia. And the clubs agreed to this declaration that they were, yes. I'm putting it to the vote,...... You agreed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, I'm voting on the proposed Declaration. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? We still have one conclusion. Pardon with 124 votes for and five abstentions to the proposed Declaration.
