ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85459	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I have two demands. First of all, it's about what you said. The Croatian Party's Club of Rights also considers and states that Mr. Glavas is constitutionally detained, so we ask that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system meet, because of the fact that the request, or the approval for detention, can be sought by whoever makes the decision, which is the judge or extrajudicial council, which in this case was not. It is also known in this case that the State's Attorney's Office has illegally requested, but in the first instance, the investigative judge rejected their request. Therefore, we believe that the court has also acted counter-constitutionally, as well as the police who carried out the counter-constitutional order, and therefore it is necessary to meet both the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in view of Article 75. A constitution which clearly states that a representative of freedom cannot be deprived or a criminal procedure can be continued without authorisation. Secondly, we reiterate our request that three weeks ago, the Prime Minister address the Croatian Parliament, and particularly regarding Mr Nice's latest statements about Carla del Ponte's role in hiding and concealing key evidence of Serbia's involvement in the war in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We ask the Prime Minister to address, not to make daily political statements because of the fact that we want to hear finally what the Government intends to do and whether it intends to finally change Carla's strategy and act towards its constitutional role and mission. Will he finally submit a request to the Security Council to discuss the responsibility and work of Carla del Ponte, if he intends to finally do something in terms of taking political, legal and diplomatic measures to bring down... the indictment, whether to raise the question of criminal responsibility Carla del Ponte in front of a national court or in the Netherlands or in Croatia because it is a criminal offence of abuse of position... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and intends to initiate a review of the indictments against Croatia and against the generals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a big question, the Croatian Parliament cannot watch on the side of what the state summit says on a daily basis. Therefore, we are looking for immediate answers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85460	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85461	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. IDS voted a few months ago to take down Branimir Glavas' immunity, and if the debates open, they'll do it again. The IDS was in custody a few months ago for Mr Branimir Glavas, and if that debate opens, it will be again. However, I believe that this House must be declared as well as in the case of the garage. These are just two separate cases. It was the usual practice of this home all the time so I think the same thing should be done at this point. Understandably, the crime should not have been committed in the name of the people either, in the name of the Government, or in the name of the Parliament, or in the name of Osijek, the war crime clearly does not go out of date and, for the sake of mental hygiene, should be sanctioned by the perpetrator. However, it is also normal that the procedure in this House should be respected. You can shout whatever you want, but you all know that the night and the Drava swallowed up the Sensed Serbian nationalities and beyond that no civilised community must cross, as this House must not go through any procedures. We believe that this should indeed be discussed in this and in all similar future cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85462	Thank you. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85463	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDSSB Club proposes that the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of debate and review the decision taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on Mr Glavas' detention made on 26 November and confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 26 November last year. We hold that the procedure itself that took place was illegal, illegal because the request to the Mandate-Immunity Commission was then submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the County State Attorney's Office. We believe that if we accept the Croatian Parliament's decision that it is consummated. Why consummated? Because the investigating judge, by a decision of 10 November 2006, made a decision to reject the request for detention by the County State Attorney's Office. So this decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is consummated. And finally the investigation is closed. 147 witnesses were questioned. The prosecution document is public. None of Mr. Glavas' witnesses are burdened. We hold that there is no reason for the detention of a specific person after the investigation has been carried out. So it's about Mr Branimir Glavas. No one denies that the crimes were not committed. But here it is accused of the specific name and last name of the representative of the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, since this Croatian Parliament did not agree to the detention of Mr Branimir Glavas after the indictment was filed, we believe that the competent court acted against the law and against the constitution, because it did not seek the consent of the Croatian Parliament for the detention of Mr Branimir Glavas. It follows, in addition to asking for the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to put this matter on the agenda in haste. We are also asking the Croatian Parliament to discuss and review the decision on detention consent, which this Croatian Parliament adopted on 23 November 2006. And of course finally, we ask that Mr Branimir Glavas, given the fact that he is legally and unlawfully detained, be released immediately, until the Croatian Parliament of course discusses and makes their decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85464	Thank you. With regard to this part, I have already said that the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission will convene a session of his committee and discuss this issue and put forward a proposal to the Parliament that or should not have given consent again or approved the detention of MPs. And let the chairman of the Constitutional Committee call a session on this subject, and let him give his report to the Parliament. On the other hand, with regard to the proposal for the initiative of MP Pera Kovacevic, I will make it clear to the Prime Minister. But I note that the Prime Minister made a clear statement that in terms of charges brought against the chief Hague prosecutor's account, she was hiding evidence of war against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, thereby favouring Serbia or earlier Yugoslavia, that this should be investigated and should be initiated and debated before the UN Security Council. Surely if so and if the results of this debate show that the result of this debate shows that there was indeed one advantage by hiding evidence, where the truth was hidden about the role of Yugoslavia, about the role of Serbia and its authorities, the body, the army in the war against Croatia, in the aggression against Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it should be held before the relevant bodies of the United Nations that set up this International Criminal Court. I'll inform the Prime Minister clearly about it, so let him take a look at it, too, about your initiative, about your proposal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85466	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday at the beginning of the session of the HDSSB club, he asked to discuss and review the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of October 2006, and the same was requested for the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In addition, discussion and review of the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the inclusion of this point in the agenda and, of course, has been requested until it is done, or until this distinguished parliamentary body makes the appropriate decision to release Mr Branimir Glavas as he is in custody, here is the third day. The mandate-immunity commission and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system held their meetings yesterday. The written material, the opinion of one committee, or the conclusions of another committee, I believe they've all got representatives on the bench. As it is a matter of detention and that Agent Branimir Glavas is in custody, I believe that this fact requires the urgency of the Croatian Parliament procedure. I expected that even yesterday when the sessions were completed and when these conclusions, i.e. opinions, were shared with the representatives to report at the plenary session to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. That's missing. By completing yesterday's session, you announced agenda items, you did not announce Mr. President that they would be notified at the plenary session on opinions, or on the conclusion of both committees. Obviously, it was not the intention to report to the MPs today at the beginning of the session of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the rapporteurs of both committees to report to the Croatian Parliament today at the beginning of the session of the Croatian Parliament on the opinion, i.e. on the conclusions they made at the meetings of both committees. I ask you to put into the agenda the debate and review of the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, given that in my opinion, the conditions have been obtained because we have the opinion and conclusions of the committees responsible and I ask you to submit to the decision of the Croatian Parliament, and regarding this subject to request as President of the Croatian Parliament, given the illegality and dissuasion of the conduct that Mr Branimir Glavas is released from prison, so until this House makes a valid decision regarding this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85467	Thank you very much. As is known, I made a commitment yesterday to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Committee and the Committee on the Constitution to answer several questions. The first question is whether it is necessary by the Mandating Commission and the Croatian Parliament to give its consent again and decide on a decision to give consent to detention. Both committees held their meetings, delivered a certain opinion, this opinion distributed to the representatives, and on your proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the debate on the review of the decision of the Croatian Parliament, on the consent for the detention of representatives Branimir Glavas, I said that I would put this on the basis of their results, the result of these sessions, whether that proposal will then put the Croatian Assembly on the agenda for the inclusion of this item by emergency procedure. Since the opinions of one and the other, i.e. the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are as they are, which are divided to all MPs, have no basis for proposing the inclusion of the agenda item called the review of the Croatian Parliament's decision of 23 November 2006 because no authorised proponent in writing, which is important, did not propose such inclusion. Likewise, after the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Mandate-Immunity Commission, there is no basis for the opening of the debate on the decision taken. Thirdly, under paragraph 203, paragraph 204. 3. The inclusion of this item in the agenda can be sought if in writing one-third of the Croatian Parliament's representative is supported, but we will present the opinions of the Chairman of the Committee on the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, orally delivered by the opinion of one and the other committee. Here you go. Which one's it gonna be first? The Committee on the Constitution, chairman of the Committee Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85468	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 80th session held yesterday 18 April 2007 discussed the request of the President of the Croatian Parliament, and on the proposal of MPs Pera Kovacevic, Vladimir Šišljagić and Ivan Drmić that the opinion should be given whether or not the Croatian Parliament should decide again on the approval for the establishment of the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas. Under the powers laid down by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Committee gave the majority of votes, 8 votes in favour, one vote against and one abstention of the following opinion. 1. The decision of the Croatian Parliament taken at the 23rd session of 22 November 2006 following the debate on the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the granting of approval for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas is still in force and therefore the Croatian Parliament is not obliged to discuss this issue again. The Committee also found that the Croatian Assembly did not send any new request for the authorisation of detention. 2. The Committee considers that the Croatian Parliament is not in charge of reviewing the circumstances of whether Agent Branimir Glavas is detained against the Constitution and the law, but rather decides by the judicial authorities in the ordinary treatment of legal medicines. Mr Slaven Letica, a member of the Committee, issued an opinion pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, holding that the decision of the Croatian Parliament has been taken in advance by the decision of the Court of Justice of the County in Osijek, and that the competent authority should have sent a new request to the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of detention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85469	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee of the Mandate-Immunity Committee, Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go. Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85470	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session held on 18 April 2007 at the request of the President of the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 46(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament request Drazen Matijević, a lawyer from Osijek from 18 April 2007 for the re-deputation and decision of the Croatian Parliament on the decision of the Mandatno-Immunity Commission, on the granting of authorisation for the detention and initiation of the criminal proceedings of Branimir Glavas from the Croatian Parliament on the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek on 23 October 2006, confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 22 November 2006. Representatives Vladimir Šišljagić, Slaven Letica, Pero Kovacevic, Ivo Lončar and Ivan Drmić attended the Committee. The debate highlighted the questionable legality of the decision in question, taking into account the request for the removal of immunity, did not submit an extrajudicial council but the County State Attorney's Office. It is pointed out whether the Commission's decision of 23 November 2006 was consummated by the County Court in Osijek on the proposal of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek for Determining Detention made a decision rejecting the proposal of the County State Attorney's Office for Determining Detention. The debate, which followed, pointed out that the submission for the re-debate of the President of the Croatian Parliament presented an incorrect formulation of the request, as a review of the decision was requested from 26 November 2006, and a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the decision on detention at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek was made on 23 October 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply for the authorisation of detention against MPs by the authorised state body to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Opinions have been made that the lawyer is not authorized to make requests. The Commission is of the opinion that the reasons presented in the submission are not justified by the basis for the re-determination of detention. It is also stressed that the purpose of the immunity institution is to protect the agent from the spoken word and the role of the Commission not to enter into a measure of the matter of judicial proceedings, such as the case. Assessing witness statements. It has been pointed out that decisions to remove immunity only enable judicial authorities to carry out their tasks in their jurisdiction uninterruptedly. The mandate-immunity commission after the debate was held by the majority of votes, 8 for and one against reached the following conclusions. 1. The Croatian Parliament at its meeting held on 22 November 2006 confirmed the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament on the authorisation of detention and initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, and there is no reason to decide again on the same decision because it is the same case and the same qualification of the criminal offence that has already been decided and for which the criminal offence is being conducted against Glavas. 2. The mandate-immunity committee shall indicate the provision of Article 23(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines that the approval of detention is mandatory to request an authorised state body, and in this case such a new request is not addressed. 3. The mandate-immunity commission is that no new decision is necessary for each stage of the criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85471	That's it. Representative Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85472	Mr. President! Here, after hearing the reports, I ask you to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament according to the reports heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85473	Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85474	Your Honor, Mr. President! Yesterday, on behalf of the Croatian party club, I asked for what was to be determined in this section. So it's about constitutionality. And here it's obvious that the committees, they didn't deal with the basic two questions. First, whether a decision on detention could be made without the request being obtained, an opinion from the Croatian Parliament for approval. That request was to be submitted by the Judge or the Extrajudicial Council. Obviously, we don't want to discuss the metrics here. We are only discussing constitutionality and legality. And obviously, it's the first case of that kind of nature that happened. And the Constitutional Court's opinion should be requested. So, in this case, we should request the Constitutional Court's opinion in accordance with our proposal that I made yesterday. Can't we leave the issue of constitutionality to the political debate? So here is first of all a legal question, could the detention order have legal power, legal effect without the approval of the Croatian Parliament? And it's original that first that approval that's also illegal,... He can't ask for custody approval, but he can only ask for a judge, which was essentially consummated legally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the fight. So it's a legal question. And I suggest asking for the opinion of the Constitutional Court. ... Look, you asked for the opinion of the Department of Law at the binco resignation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is a far more important question. Therefore, let us ask the Constitutional Court for an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85475	Okay, that's one suggestion. Secondly, I will open a debate on these reports and the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Constitution Committee. Any of the clubs have anyone come forward for a word? On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Assembly club Slavonia and Baranja Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85476	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have asked for a debate on this issue, on the issue of immunity for our colleague but above all for a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is also a representative in the Croatian Parliament and who as such has immunity. There was a lot of debate, which actually means immunity, which is why the representative has any immunity at all. A representative has immunity first of all so he doesn't have to be chit-chatted. The representative shall have immunity under that Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it is not only immunity because of the public opinion we heard yesterday on the board of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After all, MPs and you will agree with me should also be protected from possible political persecution. Both at the Mandate-Immunity Commission and in the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of Immunity want to be shown as some sort of technical issue of the Croatian Parliament, so we even heard at the session that the principle members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission agreed in principle that immunity is not taken down for slander, for insult and for all other things we will remove immunity and that we will not enter into the measure of things. I don't think that's good. I think it is not right and that any removal of immunity, the subject of immunity found in front of the Croatian Parliament, each representative, according to his conscience, should be dealt with in a specific case. It is necessary to be informed about what the case is really about, to examine the subject and only after what it says is pure heart and cheek to decide whether it really thinks that immunity should be taken down or not, whether it is the case being conducted in any proceedings before the competent institutions, whether it is by any chance a grey, whether it is not political reasons, whether it is not political persecution. So I'll tell you what happened to me a few years ago. As a surgeon, I earned a criminal application. You know why? I earned a criminal application so I couldn't compete at the workplace that required it, one of the conditions was that I didn't have that criminal application. Will you remove my immunity in this House, is there no such possibility? But let me move on to a concrete example. Branimir Glavas is a representative of the Croatian Parliament. He's already been charged with war crimes against the civilian population at the County Court in Osijek. I don't want to talk about what happened back here for two years because it's a waste of time. You're all familiar and you all know how this whole procedure and procedure has run. But why we asked for a re-debate and review of the decision made by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on 23 October 2006 concerning detention and when immunity was lifted and detention for Mr. Glavas limited to what is referred to in public as "the tape case". First, because this decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was taken against the law. The request came from an unauthorized state body. The request for detention to the Croatian Parliament went from the County State's Attorney's Office. So, one party in the process that in this case Branimir Glavas is accusing and suing. The request was not made by an authorised state body, by a judge or by an extrajudicial council of the County Court. No, the request came from the County State's Attorney's Office, an unauthorized state body. There was a request to remove immunity so that Mr. Glavas could be detained. Despite the warnings and the meetings of the Mandate-Immunity Commission that it was an unauthorized request that the decision taken would not be in accordance with the law was taken and the Mandate-Immunity Commission removed Branimir Glavas' immunity and allowed detention. What happened after that? It then happened that on 10 November 2006, a competent judge acting in accordance with the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to allow the detention of investigative judge Mario Kovac in the case of "selotep" rejected the request of the County State Attorney's Office, refused detention and reached a solution. And by doing so, the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is consummated regardless of what was illegal. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided on 23 October. On 10 November, the competent judge assessed that the request for detention of the County State Attorney's Office had been unfounded and the decision rejected the request of the County State Attorney's Office. Therefore, this decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the detention in the case of the "Slotep" called for in both the opinion and the conclusions of yesterday's session was consummated. That's why we asked for another discussion and a review of the earlier decision. I repeat again, no matter what I consider illegal. But what happens now? There is no decision of the Croatian Parliament to remove Mr Branimir Glavas' immunity regarding the detention. Of course, there's no decision on the charge either, because it's a second procedure. The investigation's over. And what does the Outlaw Council of the County Court in Osijek do? Don't mind that. It shall act counter-constitutionally contrary to Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, despite its knowledge or need to know that the Croatian Parliament has made no decision and has no decision to remove immunity for the detention of the Extrajudicial Council knowing or should know the solution. The judge is issuing a warrant. Branimir Glavas is arrested or trying to arrest himself because Branimir Glavas has never avoided the decisions of the competent courts but has applied himself to prison and has remained in prison and in doing so the Extrajudicial Council and Judge, Mr Krušlin has acted counter-constitutionally because I do not believe that members of the Extrajudicial Council and the judge himself do not know that for the detention of a parliamentary representative they should have the appropriate consent and decision of this distinguished House. But you remember what happened, the media was full of inscriptions. The procedure is, though, I don't know the reasons why it was secret, but this whole investigation has been declared a secret. What should this be kept from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Did Branimir Glavas seek secrecy? No, I don't. He didn't seek secrecy in the investigation. However, he demanded that all the facts, all that was going on in the investigation process be reported to the Croatian public. All the testimonies carried out in the investigation. Because Branimir Glavas has nothing to hide. However, a competent investigative judge held that it should be classified in the case of the "Slotep". Well, the investigation was closed in the case of the "Slotep" which is why Branimir Glavas is now in prison. Anti-constitutional because neither the extrajudicial council nor the judge asked this House to remove his immunity so that he could be detained. And why didn't they ask? Well, they knew that we'd probably be looking for a few more MPs. Let's see what this is really about. What did the investigation find? Don't we care that in the investigation procedure in the case of the "Slotep" has been established? Isn't that what we're interested in? What evidence has been made? Well, I'm curious. I'm interested. I followed what was going on. I also read the indictment you can find on the website. I also read witness statements and what the charges are based on. 147 witnesses were questioned. No witness in this Branimir Glavas case is charged. There's a witness who's picking up at the beginning. There's no reason why I shouldn't mention his name. Mrs Gordana Getoš-Magdić. In her original statement, she seeks to suspect Mr. Branimir Glavas for war crimes. You know how that happened? In a way that she was brought into the police station of Osijek-Baranja County. In a way that she was held there for over 50 hours. In a way that she was harassed, blackmailed, and all under the patronage of the Chief of Police. He didn't have enough of that either. Mr. Faber is leaving for a seven-year-old child and bringing a seven-year-old child to the police administration Gordani Getoš-Magdic, a false witness to force her to make a false statement. Gordana Getoš-Magdic has denied the allegations in the investigation procedure and now there are things that none of the witnesses are burdening Mr Branimir Glavas in this process. And that's why the debate was requested, a review of the decision to remove immunity because there is no objective reason for Branimir Glavas to spend two years in prison and that after two years or a year of prosecution or judgment of the court that Branimir Glavas was not guilty, and that we were in prison for a year, a year and a half of what is said... It doesn't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter that I was in prison, the verdict is acquittal. Well Branimir Glavas is upstairs, he better have been in The Hague. Then you could defend yourself from freedom. Well, we have examples here, too, and please refer to the case law. Especially in cases where the investigation doesn't indicate Branimir Glavas committed a crime. So why does he have to lock him up? Was Branimir Glavas running? Eight court proceedings in the sense of the indictment are under way at the County Court in Osijek. It's about Serbs who committed crimes. They defend themselves from freedom. Investigations are being conducted against 20 people of Serbian nationality for war crimes. And they're on the loose. No, but a representative of the Croatian Parliament where the investigation was completed, where 147 witnesses do not accuse him. No, Branimir Glavas has to be shut down and put in jail until, to an appropriate verdict. I wonder when that verdict is acquittal because all indications are that this 147 witnesses are going to be after a year, a year and a half. I'll ask myself why I raised my hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85477	Thank you. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85478	The lawyers of Mr Branimir Glavas submitted their submission to both the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court in view of the illegality of conduct and anti-constitution. So, in one regular, formal-law procedure. And I once again ask the Croatian Parliament that all that I have brought out of the debate is perceived and that this decision of the Croatian Parliament from October 2006, that the Mandate-Immunity Commission and this esteemed House determines the facts and that it is resolved since there is no valid decision to remove immunity...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85479	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85480	...of this Croatian Parliament and that Mr. Branimir Head of this moment is in prison against the law and against the constitution and I think Mr. President...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85481	Thank you very much. Okay, don't make...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85482	...for that reason that you as the first man of Parliament should react and point to this fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85483	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85484	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I must commend you, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, that you have put this under discussion because we at the HSP Club when we talk about immunity, means first of all we are talking about the legal institution of immunity and constitutional procedure. So let's focus on that part because here's the most important question. The legal institution of immunity and constitutional procedure for the implementation of Article 75 shall, therefore, be bound by the law of the institution of immunity and by the constitutional procedure for the implementation of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because this is the first such case that a representative is in custody. Until now, such cases have not been in previous debates if you remember well when we talked about this, we ourselves have admitted that the Rules of Procedure in that part is missing. The Rules of Procedure are flawed and made this whole mess possible. When it comes to immunity, it means Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should first distinguish what was visible on the committees yesterday so that people do not distinguish what immunity is, and what it includes. First it means immunity about, that you can't carry out and initiate a criminal procedure that's the first part of immunity. So that's the first part of immunity. Immunity has the first part. So no criminal proceedings can be initiated against the representatives without obtaining the approval of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Mandate-Immunity Commission. That's the first part. And who's in charge of that part? State's attorney's office means either municipal or county state's attorney's office. It is the one that initiates the criminal proceedings, makes a request for the initiation of the criminal proceedings and, in order to be, in accordance with Article 75. The Constitution could have done so to obtain approval, i.e. approval of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, that is, the Croatian Parliament. But that doesn't mean if that approval was given and a criminal trial was initiated, so an investigation and everything else is open. But that doesn't mean that an agent like that can be detained because immunity contains this part of the custody. So, the representative cannot be detained without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Now that's where we come to the most important struggle. Who here is authorised by the Constitution to ask for such approval from the Croatian Parliament. Only one who makes such a decision can. Who's making the arrest decision? He's bringing either an investigative judge or in this case we have that it's an outside-of-the-law council of the County Court. Is that what they were looking for? They didn't ask! You can't apply for my rights on behalf of me. Right? Neither can I make a request on behalf of you, or if I'm not a lawyer and I don't have the power of attorney. So he can't ask a lawyer's office as such for the Croatian Parliament's approval of detention when there's nothing to solve. It doesn't solve that. It is only a party to the procedure that makes a request for detention and makes its arguments, its reasons. Is this request justified, is there room to decide who? It shall be decided either by an investigative judge or, in this case, outside the Rules of Procedure. And if it comes to the Constitution, it's a clear situation. If it comes to the conclusion that these demands are convincing, it's justified then it works as the investigating judge Posavec did when Branimir Glavas was detained. He then requested the approval of the Croatian Parliament. He requested the Croatian Parliament's approval that his decision on detention would mean that at the stage of the investigation it would have legal power because the solution without the approval of the Croatian Parliament or the Mandate-Immunity Commission has no legal power and cannot produce legal effects or such a decision because it is the application of Article 75. The Constitution. Right? This was, therefore, legal, correct, i.e. the procedure has been implemented as set out in Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So that's why it's really important in this case, this is a legal issue, a question of the legal institute, a matter of constitutional procedure, and we can't as representatives of the Croatian Parliament discuss it with others. We're just discussing this part. So, on this part, is the constitutional procedure respected here? It's not. It's a clear situation. There are objections and one part of the legal experts of the Constitutional Law hold this position as is held by the HSP club. The other part has another part. But that question means we finally have to determine. The constitution in that part doesn't speak. Normally, he speaks part of it because it's clear that the Constitution is based on the Penal Code, the procedural Penal Code because it knows exactly who is authorized to do what in criminal proceedings, who runs, who makes the decision on detention, who solves complaints and everything else. So, first of all, it's a matter of constitutionality and respect for constitutional procedure. That's the most important thing. So, let's forget now that this applies at this time to the Branimir Glavas case. Let's discuss this part as a legal immunity institute. That's the one, that's the most important thing in all of this because we can't, we can't get into part of the judicial and this part. But that's part of ours. That's the part of ours that we have to decide on in accordance with Article 75. The Constitution. And so it was at the first session of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. It was also our position from the club HSP and Mr Letica because then there was a strange situation that requested two detentions. The detention of the Posavac investigative judge was requested, and then detention by the county's state's attorney's office was requested. We said, there can't be two detentions. And it's not legitimate for the county state's attorney to request detention. It can only, it's legitimately asked for approval to launch a criminal procedure, so this other one called, like, "Selotepe." And then there was that break of an hour and a deputy state attorney assaulting an investigative judge, Posavec, that he counter-constitutionally made a solution to the detention because he had no decisions of the Croatian Parliament. And there's a situation that's about to be adopted and demanded by the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek. But now we're going forward legally and according to the Constitution, even though it's against us, and at the point of view of other legal experts, this is that the county's state's attorney's office as such is legitimate to request custody approval. He's been consummated. Why? Because the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek was headed for an investigative judge. And the investigative judge what did he do? He refused that detention request. Thus, there is another legal situation. And in order for us to follow the Constitution, we remain at our position to request the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in this case. There's no danger Branimir Glavas will escape, he said all the other situations himself. But let's discuss here responsibly from the point of view of the legal institute of immunity and from the point of view of the implementation of the constitutional procedure. This is the point of all of this, and let us not discuss this part politically but purely legally and responsibly. So the dispute is legal indemnity. The views of legal experts and everything else have been shared. And therefore there were really conditions to ask for the Constitutional Court's opinion and to determine the Rules of Procedure as such in these situations correctly. Because the Rules of Procedure are missing, we know it ourselves, and we were just fortifying it. Because that's what the Rules of Procedure is all about, and then it's, that's what helped. Look, the state's attorney's office went because of this situation in the rules of procedure, says the court can address and can address the state's attorney's office. But the state's attorney's office is also normal that it was predicated that it could only be addressed for where it's competent. Because the state's attorney's office isn't in charge of detention. It doesn't make a decision about detention. It can only be suggested. But in order to initiate a criminal trial, the state's attorney's office can't do it without permission. Thus, this whole dispute was allowed to take place in that first and second session and the matter is legal and constitutionally clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85485	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85486	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. Osijek's County State Attorney's Office filed charges in front of the Osijek County Court yesterday against seven accused of war crimes against the civilian population, the murder of civilians on the Drava in '91. in the case of the tape. The indictment was brought against Branimir Glavas, Ivan Krnko, Gordan Gettos Magdić, Mirko Sivić, Dina Kontic, Tihomir Valentiæ, Zdravko Dragic, and the attorney's office proposed that all the defendants be given detention, i.e. the lengthening of detention, because of the clearly difficult circumstances under which this work was done. The guilty of Krmka and Gordan Getos Magdic are charged with following Branimir Glavas' orders in late '91. in Osijek at the time of the defense of the city from JNA and associated paramilitary units of the rebel and local Serb troops established a unit that was under its control. Then orders, etc., were issued, people led to Drava and are thus charged with killing B.L. 50 years old, A.S. 47. J.G. 51, M.K. 48, S.V. 29 years old, P.L. 27 years old, M.S. 48...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85487	Comrade Cain, we're not going to read the indictment here. We're not going to read the charges here!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85488	... D.P. 38 etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85489	We're not going to read the charges here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85490	What do we do now? In my opinion, we must decide on this indictment proposal, i.e. Detention. Mr. Glavas was stripped of this immunity in the case of "Garaza", not in the case of "Slotjejp" or this detention that Mr. Šišljagic was just talking about. We just now have to fight in some way for the dignity of this House. If someone is also granted immunity in one case or a certain detention in one case, it does not mean that someone is being held in another case. Understandably, even for this behavior, i.e. Understandably, for one of these behaviors that puts someone's burden on the state's attorney's office we need to raise our hand, it's a minimum of minimum. So we have to vote to remove immunity, which is to determine detention. Is the head responsible, that, Mrs. Vera, that will surely determine the court. Until the verdict, he's presumed to be innocent. Understandably, he doesn't need to prove his innocence to anyone, she predestines. The D.A.'s here to prove or try to prove someone's guilty. No priors. That can't be clear either. But I don't know, I'm gonna raise my hand to the state's attorney's office. I also agree as Mr. Šišljagic asked to remove the secret from this case. That really doesn't make sense. We all know that Glavas had the courage, enough defiance to put himself in charge of the defense of Osijek. That defense was magnificent. Mr Kramarić can probably testify to this best among us. But also the fact that on the edge of those defenses they were injured and innocent. Innocent on the Serbian side who have not compromised themselves in Croatian laws. And we know it all the same. And these innocent people deserve to be mourned and buried and rehabilitated. Because Drava can't be a tomb, or she shouldn't be. And those responsible for that must answer. Because in 2007, everyone's gonna agree it's not even '41. It's not '47. The responsible must answer and have high ranks of the Croatian Army. A high rank can bring a status, it can bring a pension, it can bring a medal, it can bring an apartment, but it can't rehabilitate anyone from prosecution if someone's clearly guilty. Clearly, guilt will not prove this House. This will be done by the courts of the Croatian state in which Mr Branimir Glavas himself swears. This House can only decide on the removal of immunity, or "determination", under quotes, of someone being detained. And in that case, it's an IDS club. If it were anything else, they could be held back, they might be against it. But when it comes to a war crime, the IDS is that whenever there's a request or a similar request to be in favour of the State's Attorney's Office's proposal. I honestly feel bad for Branimir Glavas, but I'm also going to tell you the same thing, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I'm going to tell you, I clearly don't attribute them to anyone. I repeat, I trust the state's attorney and the Croatian judiciary. Earlier, Mr. Šišljagic also mentioned 20 of the accused Serbian citizens of Serbian nationality who are also charged with war crimes, if I understand it well, and who are defending themselves from freedom and from detention. All in all, I think this is one serious case, this is the burden of the Croatian judiciary. I am of the opinion that this case was left by The Hague to the Croatian judiciary because I doubt there would ever be a discrepancy between the former Glavas' party and him who somehow installed them in power. If I didn't paraphrasise Mr. Ivan Drmic who said he was counting votes yesterday in Wales, Croatia might also win the European championship and it itself without Hungary. But that doesn't matter now. The credibility of the Croatian state is important. No one could impose a crime on either the Parliament, or the government, or the state, or the military, or the people, and so many IDSs were to remove immunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85491	Representative Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85492	I'm sorry, I'd have one correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85494	I never said that statement that Mr. Cain said, nor did I think I planned to count any votes. The last votes I counted were at the HDZ Assembly, I believe I will never again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85495	Who burns once, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85496	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, I took part in the work of these two committees, whose reports we are discussing, and in the first place I am not satisfied with the seriousness and debate that was held yesterday on these committees, especially with the people who led these committees and who, somehow, easily and with a dose of irony and humor, understood and thus conducted the session itself. I met my colleagues on committees yesterday because I looked at where immunity arose, where they first applied it, and I saw that it was in England and Britain where immunity was made with the aim of protecting the English Parliament from the influence of the king. In this way, an attempt was made to protect Parliament's activity and to prevent the influence of a king who at the time had very great powers in England and to protect parliamentarians so that they could work freely without the king's pressure on them, without political processes and without the influence of Parliament itself. The same team can see that this immunity is even more needed here in Croatia today because there are many more people in our country who have imagined that they are kings, and thus the possibility that such political processes are much greater than they are in England today and what was before. Unfortunately, we have here today on the agenda of this topic, and we can see from all this that my colleagues before me have said that there has been a heavy discrimination, our fellow parliamentary representative Branimir Glavas, because it is a representative who has had parliamentary immunity, and today he is in custody, while at the same time several dozen citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have also been convicted or convicted of war crimes, are allowed to defend themselves from freedom and have no immunity, so that here we may ask the question of discrimination itself, although according to my Mr. Glavas, it was necessary to defend himself from freedom and, unfortunately, prove his innocence and even that there is no famous parliamentary immunity that we see in Croatia today does not serve anything. I would also single out the example of Croatia's General Ademi for whom God is granted to defend himself from freedom and for which I hope that his innocence will unfortunately also have to be proved in Croatian courts. His indictment of war crimes is a lot more difficult qualifications than just a charge of Mr. Glavas. Even the other day, I thought that legal practice and court practice would probably be applied in this country, which would be perfectly normal for Branimir to also be granted freedom under exactly the same conditions as General Ademi. Unfortunately, here in this country, legal practice does not apply, judicial practice does not apply, and laws and rules obviously do not apply to all citizens equally as it should in all democratic countries. At the beginning of the investigation, the indictment was difficult, but I thought let it go, let the court do its duty to solve these crimes once already, if someone is guilty, and simply to close this book and to remove this mortgage from both the city of Osijek and in general from all the defenders who participated in the defense of our beautiful on the Slavonic battlefield. Unfortunately today, it is not the intention of the people who started it. The intention is completely different and the only goal is for Branimir Glavas to end up in custody, to disable his public action, and there is no question at all whether he is guilty, whether he is not. He is not even allowed to try to prove his innocence in Croatian courts. The investigation is over, 147 witnesses were heard, in the very beginning under very, very suspicious circumstances one witness and the defendant charged his colleague, Glavas, and then, with heavy charges against Commissioner Faber and his fellow officers, withdrew his testimony while all the other 147 people who were heard in Branimir Glavas' investigation were not charged in the least possible way and did not even mention their name in those statements. When I got that information, when I saw what the actual situation was after the investigation was over, I was convinced that the State's Attorney's office wouldn't continue to prosecute, that it wouldn't press charges because there's simply no minimum element in this process, but I can see that's not the case with us in the state. They wrote some kind of science fiction novel, sent it to the Croatian court and filed charges. So I wonder how long Branimir will sit in prison for someone's wish without arguments and what we'll tell him after a year or two if he stays there, when the court releases him for whose wish and fiction he's been sitting in jail for so long, and we all know he didn't do what they're accusing him of. But I'd look back a little bit on the procedure of that detention, especially about removing immunity. Clearly, there is a lot of uncertainty in the process itself. You saw both Mr. and colleague Kovacevic when he exhibited and tried to explain what was happening in this case, that it could not be seen where the head was, and where the tail was, that there was a lot of illogicalness, that some decisions of the Board of the Croatian Parliament were contrary to themselves, that one day it was done by one rule, the next day by another. And that neither the Constitution nor the law nor the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were respected. I'd like to ask you a question here what's already been said by my colleagues before me. Who is authorized to apply for the detention of a parliamentary representative? The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament speak clearly. Here, you can take a look at Rule 23(2) of the Rules of Procedure and I will also quote it, "When the terms of the detention of the representatives are obtained," that means the conditions are met when the judge makes a decision on the detention. That means the last thing that has to be brought in to make sure there are conditions for detention. The authorised national authority shall be obliged to request prior approval of that approval by the Assembly. So when the judge makes his decision on detention, that's when the terms for detention were obtained. So, prior to the detention, the authorized body is obliged to request the authority of the Croatian Parliament. The only person who has been able to make such an investigation in the previous investigation today when the indictment has been brought, or fulfil, that final condition for the detention of a parliamentary representative is in the investigation of an investigative judge, and in the aftermath of the indictment means the judge who took the case in order to lead the main hearing. It is only after such a decision that the court may request approval for the implementation of that decision that means the detention of a representative. But that wasn't the case with us here. Immunity arrest requests clashed here on committees for the same person, for the same crime, for the removal of immunity, both the state's attorney Bajic and the judge submitted. We all consider ourselves authorized. And at yesterday's session when I pointed out that problem, I asked the board president, what would he do when he didn't accept this argument, that I file for an immunity request to an agent? Ironically, I asked that. He said he'd take it off too. That speaks enough of his seriousness and the seriousness of the work of the board and the Committee of Immunities. And I don't think it's necessary to comment on what kind of severity they're accessing in one of these cases. It is enough to get instructions from certain people in the party leadership and they will do so without any interest in what is written in Croatian laws, as stated in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And unfortunately, it's our really here as people all sit in the Croatian Parliament. Another misunderstanding that was also mentioned in the debate before me. Has the Croatian Parliament's decision since 23 November 2006 been consummated? The fact is that the State's Attorney's Office is also unclear whether it could, in my opinion, not have requested last year, means in October an authorisation for detention under investigation against Branimir Glavas in the Osijek case. And the Parliament has approved such a decision. However, in the November of last year, the judge refused to issue a ruling on detention or rejected a request from the State's Attorney's Office. In my opinion, this request was consummated, because the request was an explanation at the time when they sought according to the Croatian Parliament's decision at the time, it was completely different, it had both elements and subject, there was a different text of the indictment. Everything was completely different. All conditions were different. And my opinion is that at that time, that decision was consummated. Since today other conditions are not the State's Attorney's Office but the judge should again request the consent of the Croatian Parliament or the approval of the detention of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Croatian Parliament itself. Let the Parliament respect the procedure, let it repeat the same in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Croatian Rules of Procedure, so that if that political decision is such, let it make such a decision. But I would only ask and insist that in this case the highest body in our country is respected by the Croatian laws, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because these are the documents that our colleagues brought here before us. And if we don't stick to the Croatian laws and rules of the game, we can't expect that from other citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85497	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85498	Dear Mr. President! And I would like to join you personally with your public praises for allowing this debate. In fact, it is a great paradox for our colleagues to discuss this important issue in mass media, in contacts, in open and incarcerated, and here there is an ever-present anxiety. I answered to explain a little more precisely why I gave my opinion yesterday. I singled him out because this is about the Institute of Immunity of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Not one principled, theoretical concept of immunity, but of immunity defined above all in Article 75. The Constitution, in paragraph 3, which sets out very precise the basic principle of parliamentary immunity. And then, unfortunately, he would say incorrectly even the misdetermined provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which create confusion, because instead of talking about the authorities of the judicial authority, it is said of authorised state bodies. And that was the basic reason why there was confusion both in previous discussions and in the Mandate-Immunity Commission and yesterday's debate on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I am personally of the view that yesterday's Mandate-Immunity Commission should not have been held at all because it was not required to do so in the Rules of Procedure of the Authorised State Authority or the request of the judicial authority on the basis of which it was to be discussed. However, there was strong reason for the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give its assessment of the whole case because it is unquestionably next. It's undeniable next. It means that, at the request of the County State Attorney's Attorney's Office, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of those long ago was granted approval by the Office of Mladen Bajic for the detention of Branimir Glavas. However, by deciding on this particular request, the County Court's investigative judge in Osijek estimated that he would not comply with the request of the County State Attorney's Office because Branimir Glavas was in prison at the time, or in custody. Therefore, there is no dispute that this formal requirement has been consummated and, in addition, the circumstances have changed significantly. He was previously detained on the basis of an investigation and is now detained on the basis of already filed charges. So I know that when it comes to other people being burdened with daily problems, they never think it can happen to them. Me and a lot of people know it can happen to any of us. That carelessness for another is something to worry about this High House. That one feeling in order to show the depression that's coming on, and I don't think there's a lot of opportunities in this situation that we're in right now. I suggested yesterday to the parties in the conflict, so Branimir Glavas' lawyers to launch a constitutional dispute likely to be resolved after a brief procedure. Yesterday, there was a chance that my Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system instead of my own separate opinion would take a stand for such an interpretation of the Constitutional Institute of Parliamentary Immunity, but since this did not happen, it is good to at least conduct this debate. And on the basis of this debate, Mr. President, you can think and otherwise interpret the position of the parent committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. It's my case layman's opinion. And finally, I would like to pray that in some way in the Croatian public respect is the fundamental principle of the presummation of the innocence of everyone, otherwise, colleagues of Branimir Glavas and that this does not make a public joke as it was made on both sides. I will not mention that Branimir Glavas has unnecessarily dressed the general uniform and appeared on the streets of Osijek, and it is an even greater scandal that the president of the state allows himself the freedom to interpret under what circumstances and how Branimir Glavas came to the general rank although it is known that he himself did not come to the general act on the battlefield and would be polite at least to give up that general act himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85499	Five-minute debates The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Assembly of Slavonia and Baranja, Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85500	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here in these five minutes, I want to make my position clear and believe me, and unfortunately, I can only convey the position of our fellow parliamentary representative who is currently in prison. War crimes or better said crimes in the war in the city of Osijek were also what led to "the tape case" being done as counterpart Cain said. In that part, I agree with my colleague, Caine, it really is, obviously, a cruel murder, and that should have long ago been perceived, investigated, and, of course, when the perpetrators and the perpetrators are found to be sanctioned. Well, no one in this country can do what is the sanctity of the Homeland War because of individual performances, steps up and these are what I call criminals, criminals this country has in peace and so as not to have them in the war and in that war osset on the front line of the front line. These peace criminals, of course, have done crimes both in the war and used the Homeland War, which is sacred to their personal breakthroughs and to such things as "Storm" from the International Community, unfortunately won the epithet of criminal action. Isn't that embarrassing?- I'm sorry. No one can personally and certainly no one here in the Croatian Assembly is a crime in war, war crime, whatever you want. We're actually acting and I'm sorry, we're acting in a double way, something that can't be explained. We do what needs to be done. For our generals who are accused in The Hague, we fight to defend ourselves from freedom because we know they are innocent, that they are unjustly accused and we ask the International Community to defend our generals from freedom. And what are we doing here in Croatia? What do we do in this particular case when an investigation is carried out? An investigation was conducted, 147 witnesses were examined. No one's burdening our general. No, we close our eyes. In front of the International Community, we do one thing and here we can objectively judge and assess, determine, the final investigation has made clear the facts we are doing nothing here. We allow the entire trial to be pending and carried out in light of the fact that people of Serbian nationality are being held for war crimes that are under way in the defence of freedom. Eight court proceedings are conducted at the County Court in Osijek for war crimes committed by Serbs in the area. They defend themselves from freedom. We have examples, just before one of our fellow MPs pointed out from court practice that the Croatian judiciary allowed the defence to go free in two cases of our generals and should be so. But once again, I ask you why in this way, why this kind of behavior and closing our eyes to the MPs. What happened the other day and I repeat once again the extraordinary council of the County Court in Osijek and the competent judge did not have the approval of the Croatian Assembly for the detention of the parliamentary representative. It has been counter-constitutional and illegal, and I am asking my colleagues and colleagues to make this public, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I think they've done both against the law and against the constitution. The lawyers of Mr. Glavas have taken appropriate legal measures according to the Constitutional Court, according to the Supreme Court, we will of course wait for this, but this Parliament has the obligation and mandate to make it clear and loud that outside the panel of the County Court in Osijek and the competent judge did not request consent for the detention of Branimir Glavas, and this is done and Branimir Glavas is in prison and I ask the Croatian Parliament for that fact, once again I ask to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85501	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85502	Dear Mr. President, I assume that Parliamentary representative Šišljagic accidentally said one inaccuracies, which is that the International Community has rated "Storm" as a criminal organisation. That's incorrect. It's one of the parties to the trial at the International Court in The Hague, which is the prosecution, trying to charge our generals with this thesis. It is therefore not the International Community but one of the parties in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85503	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85504	Namely, the correction of the inaccuracy of the criminal organisation, I did not say the organization but the action, but I accept this remark in this second part, although it was about Carla del Ponte who was guessing all the time, as she had now become unfortunately after the year of her work in The Hague court, it now seemed clear how she was actually working for Serbia and occupiers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u85505	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on the conclusions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We'll vote on those two acts tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. at the time of the vote. In view of this second initiative, to request an opinion from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for the claim that it was an anti-constitutional detention and the lawyers of the first defendant Branimir Glavas had already taken certain initiatives in this direction, and the second, according to the Constitution of Article 128. The Constitutional Court shall decide on constitutional suits against individual decisions of state authorities and courts shall be state bodies so that such constitutional action, if it has been brought and may be held by the Constitutional Court only and the Croatian Parliament as the most representative, the legislative body is not authorised under its constitutional act to seek the Constitutional Court Act, constitutional law, to request an opinion. Giving an opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, business and political system on the basis of a proposal from the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I am voting in favour of the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which was put forward on the proposal of the representative of the Croatian Parliament on the review of the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the approval to determine the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas. Please vote. The result? I find that with 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 4 against the proposed opinion. I am voting in favour of the conclusions proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission concerning the review of the decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the authorisation to determine the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas. Please vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 4 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86607	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a protocol on heavy metals related to the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Transboundary Air Contamination. Croatia signed the 1979 Convention on Long-range Overdoing of Air Pollutation, the convention confirmed. And now we have a protocol ahead of us, and now we have a protocol in front of us that's connected to one part of that convention. It refers to heavy metals. This Regulation prescribes the permitted limit values, emissions of harmful substances from air from stationary and mobile sources. So this is a protocol with the very convention signed by the Republic of Croatia on 24 June 1998. However, what is important here, the prominent protocol came into force only in 2003. It is that this protocol monitors emissions of harmful substances such as lead, cadmium, mercury and their products. The parties to the obligation and which have signed and ratified this Protocol must reduce the total quantity of these heavy metals in the atmosphere by reference to the base year 1990. What happened in Croatia in the meantime, the emissions of these most heavy metals are significantly reduced in Croatia especially if we talk about lead emissions because the biggest emissions of lead come from mobile sources, from the use of lead gasoline that is banned and can no longer be produced and can no longer be used or put into circulation so that these quantities are significantly reduced compared to 1990. The cadmium emissions are also reduced so that it is 30% lower than what has been in recent years. All this is related to the quality of fuel and the quality of combustion. The show is slightly higher than it was in 2003, but it's almost half as much as it is in the base year. The same goes for the solid particles that you can see from these diagrams here in addition. I therefore propose that this adoption of this Protocol be accepted and that Croatia can also show that it holds international conventions on environmental protection and emissions of heavy metals into the air from stationary and mobile sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86608	Thank you. Committees, spatial arrangements, environmental protection, European integration, legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86609	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination is considered a framework convention aimed at protecting man and his environment from air pollution by taking measures to gradually reduce cross-border air pollution caused by cross-border transmission of pollutants into the atmosphere. The implementation of measures and more detailed obligations for States Parties to the Convention for certain contaminants shall be governed by the adoption of the Protocol by the Convention. The Secretary of State has already noted that this Protocol entered into force on 29 December 2003 because it was signed by 28 states as far as the Convention was scheduled to enter into force. It is, of course, necessary for the Republic of Croatia to ratify this protocol by adopting this law, because it is our desire to join the European Union, and of course to bring all our legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. Based on numerous studies, the impact of pollutant emissions on all environmental components transmitted to high distances, scientists have come to the realization that increased emissions of heavy metals in the atmosphere adversely affect human health, plant and animal life. Namely, they act on the decomposition of the immune and nervous system, and the metabolism of living organisms, and some metals have been shown to be carcinogenic. In order to protect human and environmental health throughout the United Nations region for Europe, which has been joined by the United States and Canada, they have decided to adopt such an international protocol, which, through the implementation of the country, will monitor and reduce emissions of heavy metals into the atmosphere. The fundamental obligations that arise for the Republic of Croatia under this Protocol are first – to reduce the total annual emissions in the atmosphere for heavy metals, i.e. for lead, cadmium and mercury compared to the level of emissions in the initial year of application of this obligation, which refers to the 1990s when the Convention entered into force and the date from which the obligations of the States of the signatories are calculated. Apply emission limit values for stationary sources such as large storage devices, production of colored metals, processing of metal ore, production of cement, production of copper, zinc, lead, high and port furnaces in the production of steel and raw iron, production of glass and production of chlorine. Therefore, all these productions appear in the Republic of Croatia in one way or another, and here you can see that by adopting this protocol, we are coming into a situation that will be mandatory for those who have organised this production and who are operating in Croatia and the Croatian market. All of this, of course, refers to the emissions of solid particles, and compliance with the regulatory restrictions also contributes to reducing the emissions of heavy metals. This will also apply to new plants and modernisation of existing applications, in order to apply the best available techniques using the guidelines set out in this Protocol. Which is very important for us in the Republic of Croatia to reduce the content of lead in gasoline production. To apply the prescribed limit values for solid particles to existing stationary sources, to develop programmes and plans with the aim of applying the provisions of the Protocol, to encourage research, development and monitoring of the situation, to provide periodic information on emissions of heavy metals to the Secretariat of the Convention in accordance with the agreed methodology of the Executive Body of the Convention. So these are our obligations arising from the ratification of this protocol. Given that data on emissions of heavy metals and solid particles in the Republic of Croatia for the period 1990 to 2004, and a significant reduction of all heavy metals and solid particles have been established. We have that information. Long-term economic development plans for the electrical energy system, planning of the gasification of Croatia, orientation of clean technologies and modernisation of existing refinery, energy and other industrial plants, and modernisation of the transport sector. And, of course, new regulations. As you know, this Croatian Parliament is from this area regarding air protection and emissions emissions from stationary sources. We've already arranged that. This creates assumptions for meeting the obligations that will arise under this law for the Republic of Croatia when the Protocol enters into force, thus contributing to the ultimate goal of reducing emissions of heavy metals in the atmosphere, and of course all for the protection of our citizens, people, the environment in the Republic of Croatia and of course to neighbouring countries and the European Union as a whole. Mr. President, the club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86610	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86611	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt and it has been demonstrated that increased emissions of heavy metals in the atmosphere have adversely affected human health, plant and animal health. The long-term transmission of the same results in their permanent storage and accumulation in areas where there are no anthropogenic sources of emissions, as well as an apparent adverse environmental impact. The Republic of Croatia confirmed the protocol with regard to a further reduction in sulphur emissions in 1998. The Protocol on Heavy Metals, with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, was signed by the Republic of Croatia in 1998 and entered into force in accordance with its provisions on 29 December 2003. The Protocol prescribes the obligations of parties to monitor emissions of heavy metals which may have an adverse impact on human health as well as on the environment at all. The Protocol prescribes the obligations of the parties in respect of lead, cadmium emissions, as well as the total amount of solid particles. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction is developing an annual emissions budget for a large number of polluting things. The lead emissions data show that it was 16.1 tonnes in 2004 which is 31% less than in the previous 2003 or even 27 times less than in 1990 or perhaps only 3.7 percent more accurate than in 1990. This certainly desirable trend is the result of an increasing share of unleaded gasoline since lead emissions in the road transport sector are participating with a high percentage in 2004. 70.6%. The cadmium emissions in 2004 amounted to 880 kg, and it recorded a decline compared to previous years. In total cadmium emissions with 82%, the stationary energy sector is involved, more specifically the combustion of lush oil. In 2004, the live emissions recorded a rise from 2003 and apparently depended on the quantities of natural gas combustion. The total solid particle emissions in 2004 were 14.8 kiloton compared to the previous period with an increase or reduction depending on the sector contributing to the total emissions. The Protocol on Heavy Metals provides for the basic obligations of parties in respect of emissions of heavy metals, lead, mercury and cadmium listed in Annexes one to seven Protocols. They shall contain the initial year of application of the obligations for lead, cadmium and mercury, the category of stationary sources, the best available techniques of control of emissions of heavy metals and their compounds from the category of stationary sources, the timing of application of the limit value and the best available techniques to new and existing stationary sources, the emission control limits from major stationary sources, product control measures, measures and product management. The application of the provisions of this Protocol guarantees a reduction of emissions of heavy metals, lead, cadmium and live in the atmosphere, and this still results in increased and certainly effective protection of people and the environment, not only in the Republic of Croatia but also much further and beyond, which is ultimately the objective of this Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86612	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Heavy Metals with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of '79. A year. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 90 votes and 2 abstentions, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. This is the second Protocol with the same Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Also in '79. the year Croatia signed in '98. A year. However, the Protocol came into force only in 2003, as in the previous case. It is about persistent organic pollutants consisting of pesticides, halogen hydrocarbons, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins and furans. The objective of the Protocol is to reduce these substances, the emissions of these substances into the air. The protocol prohibits the use of these substances consisting mainly of highly known pesticides such as DDT which has been gone for more than 20 years in our day, in our application. However, other pesticides, but their use is otherwise protected by the Plant Protection Act. Polychlorinated biphenyl or BCB are persistent organic substances that are still present in Croatia today but are present only in transformer oil oils and quite large quantities. Their use and in, is forbidden except in the maintenance system. And because of the extremely high cost of care, they gradually get away with the application and the fewer and fewer are in today’s preparation. So since '92. years, etc. they are no longer manufactured as capacitors or transformers in Croatia or are not placed or imported into Croatia. But these existing ones are due to the extremely high cost of care, which we cannot resolve in the Republic of Croatia, we are forced to export and to high costs. So that's why they're going to export. Otherwise, this Protocol shall elaborate on the extent to which these permanent organic contaminants may or may not be used. And that depends on the country in 2010 and 2015 respectively. The European Union has also given a special directive on the application of these pollutants and this directive will be transposed into law, our legislation based on the Waste Act. So in 2008 according to the IPP, the plan is that by 2008, we will have it resolved and fully governed by the law. Otherwise you can see from the diagrams themselves that the use and use of these POPS, etc. shortened over the years and we generally adhere to this directive by the basis of our laws, regardless of how we have not ratified the Protocol. However, due to the extremely expensive measures that are tied up, as I said primarily around these transformers' oils, all other legal frameworks needed to be well prepared to ratify this. Here I propose that this Protocol of the Convention be adopted on Long-range air pollution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86616	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86617	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This Protocol also follows from the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, and it also entered into force on 23 October 2003, as the State Secretary pointed out, because it was ratified by 28 countries in the area of Europe and North America. The existing organic pollutants include an extremely large number of toxic organic compounds which are actually indegradable and which are resistant to chemical, photochemical and biological degradation, accumulate in living organisms, are prone to high distance transfer and affect human health and the environment. Based on numerous surveys of the use of persistent organic pollutants in agriculture, veterinary, forestry and industry, and the release of these substances into the atmosphere and water and soil, scientific knowledge has been made that their use is harmful to human health, especially in developing countries, especially women and through them to future generations. Therefore, due to a significant impact on human health and the environment, the Protocol provides for the elimination of production, use, import, export of persistent organic substances, which has a significant reduction or complete elimination of the release of these substances into the environment, the reduction of total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins and furans, and the reduction of pesticide use in agriculture. The Protocol lays down specific conditions under which the quantities and species of persistent organic pollutants may be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner by devices treated as hazardous waste. What's the situation with us with these polluting substances? She looks like this. The pesticides other than polychlorinated biphenyls are banned in the Republic of Croatia at the end of the 60s and 70s. The famous pesticide lindan, which is also placed in pesticides, was last banned in Croatia in 2001, and the use of pesticides is regulated by the Plant Protection Act. In Croatia only plant protection products authorised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy may be placed on the market and used. There is no or planned production of these chemicals in the Republic of Croatia. The emission of dioxins and furans has been prescribed by the Regulation on the limit values of air pollutant emissions from stationary sources and this Regulation has been published in the "National Journal" No 21 of this year. Production and use of polychlorinated biphenyls, etc. PCBs are banned in developed countries of the world, so products in which they are found have become dangerous waste. Taking care of devices filled with PCBs is an expensive procedure, so only economically rich countries can do so in a short time. In accordance with the chemical law and the list of dangerous chemicals whose traffic is prohibited, or restricted, in Croatia PCBs are allowed only for the purpose of maintaining existing equipment until the end of their operation, or until the equipment becomes waste. I believe that many do not know, but that large part refers to transformers and other equipment that is in use with us and is once imported from European, Central European countries. In Croatia, no mixture of current PCB was produced or currently produced, and since 1992, transformers, capacitors filled with polychlorinated biphenyls have not been imported or produced. The use of PCBs in open systems has not been established with us. For economic reasons, the Republic of Croatia is not able to dispose of all those devices filled with polychlorinated biphenyls within a short period of time and install eco-acceptable substances instead, as this requires significant investment investments. For this reason, most of these devices will remain in use in the Republic of Croatia until the end of their lifetime of use or the first haematism, after which they must be completely taken care of or destroyed. Given that we have all the assumptions for meeting the obligations that will arise under this law, of course when this protocol comes into force in the Republic of Croatia and thus we also contribute to the ultimate goal of reducing emissions of harmful substances and ending their use and, of course, to protect people and the environment in the Republic of Croatia and in our neighbourhood. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes that we also accept this protocol and accept the law and ratify the protocol and adopt it. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86618	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the 1979 Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? With 89 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86621	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is about a bill originally passed in 2003. I remind the law, which legally framed the Bologna Reform, the Reform, the root reform of higher education in Croatia, the reform through which the Republic of Croatia seeks to bring its higher education into line with the European one. I also remind you that the law that was passed in the meantime has experienced two amendments and additions, this would be the third. They all sought to follow the experience of practice in the application of this law, following the fundamental intensity of the successful integration of our higher education into Europe. Three key reasons why we are going to the Croatian Parliament today are with this very proposal to amend and supplement the law. The first key reason is the need to bring our legislation in line with European Union legislation, a more concrete need to eliminate discrimination on the right to enrol European Union citizens to higher education institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The second is the fulfilment of the obligation under the National Corruption Prevention Programme. The third reason is state support, and also compliance with EU legislation. Of course, apart from the key reasons that we have managed in this law, there are strategic goals here, strategic commitment that we want to achieve. The first among them is our desire to open up the possibility of military and police education in a system of higher education in university studies. That so far has not been possible, they were only possible professional studies outside the university. The second strategic goal is to further develop our professional studies, especially by expanding and opening new opportunities for greater involvement of relevant staff and the third strategic reason is to open new opportunities for the involvement of scientific recruits on technology projects. The government proposes that the Croatian Parliament consider and adopt the law in an emergency procedure for reasons which are almost only understandable in these few introductory sentences, the need to comply with the European Union. Already some deadlines have expired here and simply the need to go with this is already visible in itself. Let me brief you ladies and gentlemen through the draft law from article to article, pointing to what we think is an important reason why we are going to change and supplement and pointing to what is the way we try to satisfy our intensity in this matter. The first article I draw your attention to is article 16. It's about the evaluation of scientific organisations. In the present situation, therefore, according to the current Law, we have too narrow a circle of scientific organizations that are subject to evaluation. They're just public science institutes and high schools, not all of them, but just some. So, this proposal we propose that the evaluation obligation be extended to all scientific organisations and all high schools which are founded by the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, Article 22. It is that according to our proposal, the court registration of public scientific organisations and higher universities, which were granted by the founder of the Republic of Croatia only on the basis of a license issued by the competent ministry. That thing has never been prescribed before, so this proposal makes us make that commitment and that rule mandatory. This Regulation shall enter into force on This is about expanding the circle of possible scientific centres of excellence. According to the current solution, only a scientific organization and a group of scientists could be declared a scientific centre of excellence. They're kind of extremes. On the one hand, the scientific organization is a whole, and on the other hand, a group of scientists themselves. We suggest that a possible centre of scientific excellence can be declared a part of the design of a scientific organization. So something that's between an organization as a whole and a group of scientists that can also use that possibility. Article 34 refers in our opinion to the need to introduce the power to choose scientific titles in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and in situations where this institution does not meet human resources in all scientific areas in all six scientific and seventh artistic scientific fields. This Regulation shall enter into force on It is our intention to disable otherwise bad practice, the current bad practice of skipping elections to scientific jobs. According to the current law, a scientist could gain a certain number of scientific titles to skip the order of scientific jobs which, in our opinion, is not good, which in many ways damages the overall success of the work of a scientific organisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's a contract in the work of scientific advisors, so scientists in the highest possible scientific calling since the age of 65. According to the current legal solution, a person must retire or remain in the same work organisation under the conditions prescribed by the law, and it is a condition that I remind him to be elected as a scientific advisor and in a permanent calling and that he thus needs that, or any other scientific organisation. Here we predict the possibility that a man may receive a contract of work in another scientific organization, of course provided that no one else has reported to the tendering process there. We think we rationalise our not particularly rich human potentials in scientific activity and higher education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the First, the possibility of hiring scientific recruits on technology projects, not just on scientific projects. And secondly, the possibility of hiring scientific recruits from their own resources is talked about a legal person from the economy, from a general social life, therefore from his own resources, not from the state budget, but then without the obligation to conduct a public tender at that stage. I'm asking that we understand this to the end exactly how it is. These people are generally accepted in their own time, at the time of public competition, they work for a certain number of years now on the job and we want to free them from the obligation to once again publicly compete those people who are inside the process check and receive them as if they did not have the opportunity to meet them. With this proposal, we would free this organization from the obligation of this and then the public competition. Article 46 deals with the restriction of work based on a contract of work, not a contract of work, a contract of work known as external cooperation, that is, by restricting that work outside the home scientific organisation to a maximum of one third. I don't think it's necessary to explain the logic of this proposal in particular. It is rare for us that some scientists are more engaged in external cooperation than in their parent organization, which is a kind of nonsens. Article 48 deals I initially told the possibility of military and police studies but at the university. So, we're bored and now we have military and police studies but outside the university. They're professional studies. The founders of these studies and these institutions are the most often resolute ministries. And, of course, in a situation where these institutions are trying to have a university study, they have to submit to a full regulation of the university, therefore, an autonomous organism that fully autonomously works in the profession and science in all its parts. Here, by means of an agreement between that university and the university, all the regulatory universities would actually be unconditionally accepted. And even if they are dependent institutions, they could organise under this law precisely because they accept unconditionally all university requirements, they could also organise university studies. Of course, besides or instead of professional, it doesn't matter now. Article 73 and 74 deals with the issue of which this House will soon address in the context of a debate on a law that follows, which is an issue of academic and professional names. So, names that are acquired by academic, university studies or professional studies. There is a problem of a kind of possible confusion in the use of a term, a professional name. It's called a specialist. That name is either as academic, either as professionally used as we know in specialist studies at the university. They're postgraduate studies. Or in vocational studies undergraduate studies, therefore the study is usually 4 and 5 years after the first degree of professional studies. The possible confusion has proved to be of course compared to a similar term and a similar name used in biomedicine. So specialization as something to mark a completed degree of professional training, not a study, the truth of professional training. But there's still a possible mix-up in public. In order to avoid this danger, we, by law, leave room for this later law to avoid this thing in the best possible way. And in the proposal that will soon follow, we hope to succeed. Article 95 deals with the question, I would say more fair choices in more scientific teaching. What's the problem? In fact, now the choice in scientific teaching was not possible within less than three years of the previous election in the workplace with that calling. We now propose that the choice is possible within three years of the first election in the workplace with that calling. So, a man chosen to simplify, a man chosen for the second time in the same calling doesn't have to wait one more time for his three years to pass, so he can be elected to that more calling. It can do so even before it has the right conditions. Article 98a regulates the status of our lecturers in the world and foreign lecturers in us. That question was simply not regulated before. With this proposal we introduce it into the law, edit the status of lecturers in Croatian language abroad and foreign language lecturers in Croatia. Articles 95 and 101, that's one newspaper. It is about the possibility of a choice in the permanent calling of a regular professor and the permanent calling of a high school professor only after the end of five years. So, this last, biggest, highest calling on that scale, we think it can be acquired, but still by building up a certain life and work and scientific and professional experience that guarantees there, this five-year deadline. The article, amending and supplementing Article 102 regulates the possibility of a work contract at the second high school and after 65. According to the current law, a man must retire or remain employed at his high school. We suggest he can get a job contract at another high school. Of course, no one answered that contest. That's appropriate to what I mentioned earlier when it comes to the Institute of Science. The article, I am at the end quite, Article 111(2), regulates the possibility of applying to scientific projects and scientific centres of excellence. That makes perfect sense to us. If it's clear by itself that even the best parts of scientific organizations can compete on these projects, then that's it. And the last thing that we spent a lot of time preparing this law on is the issue of introducing state support for research. As we know, that thing used to be regulated by the Tax on Profits Act. Now as it has been deleted from the Law on Profit Tax and incorporated into this law in a way that is in compliance with the criteria and provisions of the European Union. It is the state aid granted by reducing the tax relief for corporate taxpayers and this, the tax base is reduced by 150 % of the eligible costs. It's a syntagma used here for basic research. 125% of the eligible costs for applied research. 100% eligible costs for development research. And to say, in relation to the provisions of the Tax on Profits Act, which he prescribed, there were 100% increases in reductions. Finally, in the transitional provisions of this law, we are introducing a non-discriminatory provision under which equal involvement of citizens of the European Union in a system of higher education has followed from the moment of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Therefore, it will be possible to treat and compulsory to treat these citizens exactly as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be treated with respect to tuition to the extent and in a way that will oblige our citizens, this will also be possible for the citizens and countries that are members of the European Union. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86622	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Education Science and Culture? President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86623	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education at the 32nd session of 28 March with the final proposal for a law. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. All the solutions presented are supported in the debate. It was estimated that they stem from the need to comply with the single high school solutions at European level and improve existing legal solutions based on experience of applying existing legislative solutions from August 2003, taking into account and amending and supplementing the existing legislation as early as 2004. In doing so, the specific importance of a solution that is more appropriate to regulate some aspect of the choice in scientific teaching, as well as Mr. Secretary of State, as well as the possibility of working as high school teachers in profit between 65 and 70 years of age. Other solutions improve essentially ways of hiring scientific recruits, then the work of an extramatic scientific organisation with which an employee has completed a contract on work, then the possibility of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to conduct the election procedure in scientific calls. Then, the position of senior lecturers, foreign language lecturers, the issue of tax relief after the abolition of the relevant provisions of the Tax on Profits Act. Then, I think it is particularly important to conduct university studies for the needs of military and police education. Next, the issue of equal conditions regarding the payment of scholarships to students who are nationals of the European Union countries. Afterwards, the issue of diplomas after the completion of a specialist degree's study and other issues. The debate estimated that the introduction of improvements on the mentioned and other issues would significantly improve the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, including its changes and additions so far. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education under an urgent procedure and in the form prepared by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86624	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86625	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is a law before us that probably won't cause any serious conflict and debate, except perhaps in some details that are the affinities of this or those orientations in the organization of scientific work and classes at high schools. As the introduction said, the changes mainly refer to the European aspects of our science and higher education and there are some technical improvements which may be a reason to point out some minor shortcomings and some of the ways that might be good to consider right now and perhaps in the future. In fact, if we look at the law as a whole, we will see that the dimensions of the provisions on certain groups of matter are disproportionate. Some are very generally mentioned, some matter is very generally arranged while other matter is very detailed with small things, with almost a content that should in principle go either to sublegal acts or to general acts of higher education. Why is that? I think it's pretty clear. If you look at what's very detailed, then we see that it's a choice in calling. I'd even say that this matter is generally predominant but it's not too much without the devil. In fact, it, as well as the general system of responsibility for work and in general in society and in the system of science and higher education, shows that there is insufficient autonomous awareness of valorisation, the need for valorisation of work, rather than trying to substitute it by detailed norming the regulation of large details, which, of course, indicates that scientific organisations and higher schools have not autonomously met the criteria for valorisation and their own work as institutions and the work of individuals. If we go through the provisions that change, then I'd say there are some provisions that may deserve to be changed, so I'd like to make some suggestions. In the article... The amended Article 34 provides for the power of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to carry out part of the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it is necessary or not, I must say on this particular subject, especially after certain experiences that I have had as a member of one of the parent committees, so if it is necessary, if you think it is necessary, then I suggest that a small text be added in this article which would make it clear that this decision on choice is made on the basis of the decision of the parent committee. In that sense, there will be further amendments. Furthermore, I think there is one problem that is of broader importance, which is Article 7, the revision of Article 40, which speaks of the elections in the titles. The election of novotic titles, they are not titles, but in the novelty, let's put it this way, has so far taken place in one way that has aroused dissatisfaction among young people. In fact, the money was chosen for the project and there was one philosophy about how the project manager by autonomous decision actually chooses a person and it's his business and no one else's. But even I wouldn't dare say that there was abuse. There may have been, but I think it should be made clear that money is also chosen by a public competition and that all young people have to and can get a chance. Of course, the word of the project manager will be determined but the procedure and transparency is something without which the system can hardly enjoy trust. I would further refer to that amendment to Article 102, paragraph 8. This is a novelty according to which persons who have acquired the conditions for retirement are not selected for permanent calls. So they have no conditions to continue their work until the 1970s at their high school. I can continue my work but at another high school. Obviously, the proposaler's necessity has forced a provision like this, which, by chance, means that we don't have enough appropriate staff to fill all high-school places and then we have to reach out to those people who don't meet the general conditions for staying until the 1970s at work. We know this is a benefit, if that benefits are provided only for people in the permanent calling of a regular professor. I have to admit that what I'm about to say isn't just my thinking. I've had a lot of calls. I see that some of you have also had the opportunity to hear opinions from the field that this kind of thing is acceptable when it comes to high schools and schools that are rapidly expanding. They need personnel. There's not always enough personnel. While for universities in Croatia we have well-established universities. Unfortunately, such a solution can lead to certain petrification and impediment of young people to enter the system and engage in the process of higher education. That's why here's the proposal that's... But I'm also giving it to myself to limit that possibility to high schools and high schools, so one of the amendments will go that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, in principle, saying this whole bill is acceptable. It removes some of the technical problems that exist. Some injustices have also been observed. Here in the election they were really paradoxical that if you were 3 years old and something small then you could have made progress. If you were six years old, then you couldn't make any progress. So it was something that opposed the general nature of the regulations. Therefore, these amendments are generally acceptable and the SDP Club will, with a recommendation, consider some comments and proposals to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86626	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86627	Dear Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say that the worst thing that can happen in the process of making and passing a law is not to consult the profession or those concerned. In this case, it is an academic community which has complained of non-inclusion in the process of adopting this bill. So I also have principled remarks. I must also say that at the very establishment of the agenda I could not protest the adoption of an emergency procedure because it bears that "E". It means harmonising with the European Union. Although it is not clear that such a Law on Higher Education is being passed by emergency procedure. And it would have been good if he had gone to regular procedure, not to hide behind the "E". It is clear from the very reasoning of the law that the reasons for the emergency procedure are only Article 23, i.e. ex-Article 111a. and 111f. concerning measures to encourage, research and development and Article 24 relating to equal rights of students who are nationals of the countries of the European Union and students of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But of course this will happen from the moment of Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union, which really has nothing to do with the emergency procedure. So all the other 25 articles in all 27 of this law were no reason for the urgent procedure. If we look at percentages, it means even 90% of this legal text is taken by emergency procedure and that in the university community it is not possible to read or discuss it. The more the provisions of the law contain a series of provisions which are directly touched on the status of higher universities, which are the provisions on the evaluation and issuing of licenses. Articles 1 to 4 and in the selection of teachers Articles 18, 20 and 21. And if none of them had had the opportunity to get familiar with the amendments or to make any remarks to this law. Furthermore, the academic community expects legislation to be set in accordance with the repealed provisions and the provisions or decisions of the Constitutional Court are discussed, in particular, with regard to those who are incurring a crucial issue related to the binary system, which means a professional university study. However, this text of the law does not mention it at all. Further reasons why the law should not have been followed by an emergency procedure are also Articles 14 and 15, which are called for by special law and we know that it is the Law on Professional Names and Academia that is yet to come to the agenda. And it's already causing bile polemics in the high school community. So was it normal for this law to be discussed together in a package with this law to actually get insight into what it was about? As I see it, this law still goes into emergency procedure. I propose that, in the IDS Club, we delete the provisions relating to the choice of scientific advisor or permanent calling, the last item in Article 8, the regular professor, the permanent calling", the last article or the last paragraph in Article 18 and the professor of high school permanent calling in Article 20. It is about people in the highest titles at the scientific institutes and higher universities in the Republic of Croatia who have so far used the right to be early, meaning after at least three years elected to permanent titles, which is also normal because the conditions and procedures for choice in permanent titles are significantly simpler than regular selection procedures in senior titles, professor, outstanding professor and regular professor. These persons, therefore, mean scientific advisors, regular professors and high school teachers, unlike all other persons elected to scientific, scientific and teaching callings in these changes, are limited in time to progress, i.e. in the confirmation of their knowledge, and that, in the light of this law, they do not state in a single word the reasons for such changes. The worst part is that these people have no idea what is coming to them and this will, in some ways, also be related to higher schools, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, cause bile controversy and open up issues of discrimination between a part of teaching and scientific staff. We can assume, however, that the reasons for the time limit on the choice of persons in this matter are before I said in the permanent financial calling. Because people in permanent titles also have higher coefficients of complexity. However, how to interpret Article 21, which includes, among other things, the addition of Article 102 of the Law, paragraph 9. This item 9 allows, unlike the time limit on the selection of persons with the highest callings for permanent calls, suddenly all other persons in scientific, teaching, art and teaching professions who have completed 65 years of age to continue to work on high schools performing professional studies, which are often universities as we know if the relevant approach has not been reported in the competition. Therefore, something that is even impossible under the same law in Article 98(1) and (2). Because according to these provisions for working on a professional study, a person is chosen exclusively for teaching purposes. Based on this item on expert studies, people in scientific and teaching titles will now be working on what is absurd. Because in our view it will be where and where more expensive, it will cost the state more than the early choices of teachers in permanent calling. In addition, this approach, unfortunately, contributes under quotes to the development and care of vocational studies at universities and universities, which is not their mission and is also an incentive and reward to teachers who are not making proper progress in university studies to settle down on professional studies until the 1970s. This will definitely close the possibility of hiring younger staff, and universities and universities instead of developing university studies will compete with universities and higher schools with professional studies. We therefore suggest that this item is simply deleted or amended in a way that unequivocally states that it applies exclusively to universities or high schools which are the only ones that are lacking in professional discipline and certainly not to universities. With respect to these few remarks we at the IDS Club are ready to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86628	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86629	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations of a respected colleague. In fact, she said that the academic community wasn't consulted in making this, changing and supplementing this law. I'm saying it is, because let's say I've been in touch with making this text through my college, not as a parliamentary representative. So, through the academic community. So she was informed and had the opportunity to give her suggestions. Secondly, I would like to correct that there is a reason for the urgent procedure, that the urgent procedure is two articles that harmonize the rules with the European Union. That is not true, as the ministry clearly explained that there are two other reasons for the emergency procedure other than those two articles. First, which is required in the National Programme to combat corruption by the ministry to bring about these changes so that it can adopt sublegal acts on the criteria for the establishment of scientific institutions and better control. Secondly, the adoption of the Tax on Profits Act has given the ministry certain competences and must pass this law by an urgent procedure in order to comply with the income tax. So there's even more reason for an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86630	Thank you. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86631	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is part of a change of existing law based on our obligations to bring our legislation into line with the European Union, but most of this law is not. Well, it would be good if, when this happens, these changes that are our domestic nature, and there are more than these changes concerning European requirements and harmonisations, that this is very clear and should not actually be done, because under the company of harmonisation with the legislation of the European Union, and then it means an urgent procedure, which, of course, I suppose is reducing the quality of the legal texts doing some changes that should still go a little wider, two readings, in order to avoid the difficulties that urgent law-making can produce. This is therefore not a procedure that should occur at all, and if something like this happens by chance for efficiency, then it should be very clear in the opening arguments what these are changes concerning the determination of our legislation with the European Union and its legislation, which changes have nothing to do with this, but are our domestic initiatives and domestic affairs. In fact, there are only two changes that concern and are related to harmonising our laws with aquis communare. This is therefore the possibility of equalising tuition payments at our universities for all citizens of the European Union, which is fine. The second change in the financing of scientific projects, i.e. support for scientific research, is fundamental, applied and developed because the basis of harmonisation has already changed the Income Tax Act, profit. And that's okay. It's a little paradoxical that only now for the first time in our legal text, so at least it seems to me that we define what scientific research is, which is fundamental scientific research, which is applied, and which is separated. This should, I guess, also be defined before, because according to that definition, both the support and the relief that a particular type of research has is then defined. So these two provisions, so this first one on scholarships, equalising tuition, so avoidance of discrimination and this one on support, the way they comply with European legal standards certainly supports the club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party. The amendments to this principle note that they should not be pushed and put together with these first changes which are undeniable, where there is a minor risk of a bad regulation, or that these changes are therefore in line with the European Union directives, or have passed a series of degrees in the ministry, and therefore should not even be put together with these other amendments at all. So the law is just a conditional P.Z.E. The law. As far as this is concerned, we need to keep in mind that in one part we actually admit that we have failed to build the system of our higher education that we wanted. If, at the university, the number of teachers who will be in employment are reduced from 1/2 to 1/3, that means that this is a reduction of criteria, it is a deviation from the set goal, and that means that there has been no good policy in the long term, so we have not achieved that at our universities we have the possibility to employ 1/2 quality teachers who meet all regulations and legal rules. The same goes for these other provisions, that the senior lecturers are unlimited, without obtaining a doctor's degree, the scientific degree of a doctor can teach at high schools, which means that the same one requirement that we set before us doesn't really know how many years ago we're giving up on this legal solution because we're not in a position to meet this requirement. And this definitely shows that the criteria we set in these two segments could not unfortunately have been met during the long-term policy at the Ministry of Education and Science in the last few years. When it comes to changes such as the choice of recruits without a public tender, I must warn of the possibility of abuse of the institution. Although the secretary of state warned that it was only for those who were financed from their own funds at the university that there is a possibility, that all the resources that the school considers its own revenues would be transferred to that particular item and thus would open up a very wide range of receiving scientific recruits without a public tender, which would not be good. It still has to be according to some regulations. There are some jobs that by definition or by logic things should be financed from their own resources. If all this is transferred only to this item then that space will be too wide and most of these receptions will be afraid without a public competition. That possibility exists. I warn the ministry that underlaws, if possible, or their supervisory functions, will prevent such actions. A law opening such opportunities cannot be a good law if there are no permanent restrictions, i.e. ensuring that it does not behave in accordance with the legislator's intensities. Another issue that is also important here, again little liberalises the whole process, but with liberalisation there should be supervision, supervisory functions, and this is a choice in scientific knowledge for private scientific organisations only through the basis of provisions and their acts that regulate working relations rather than more statutes. So it's the same liberalisation of one process, and there's a possibility of abuse, and I warn the ministry that it also strengthens supervisory mechanisms in that segment. Although it is not a private scientific organisation, it would not be a good thing if there was a big difference between qualifications, expertise, competences gained in public scientific organisations and private scientific organisations, it would be a good thing that this process should also be monitored, if it is already facilitated by the basis of this provision of the selection of workers to scientific jobs in private scientific organisations. And something about the role of the National Science Council. In this article, the role of the National Council for Science is expanded. It also provides a preliminary opinion in the process of issuing a high-school permit, which is good. The National Science Council should be a body that protects the autonomy of the profession. That's why he called it the Croatian Parliament. Its powers, as well as bodies which, in a professional sense, help, while also seeing the work of the ministry, should be as large as possible. And in that sense, we welcome this provision that the National Council of Science has a role to play, has its responsibilities and in the process of issuing licenses. What is the problem in Croatia in this regard is the way the National Council for Science is appointed. The National Council for Science, which we have one part appointed, so almost half of its members at the last session of the Croatian Assembly, at this session, but at this last and individual session, should be the expression of the real quality and will of the promoters, the basis of the promoters, not exclusively the will of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then, ultimately, the majority in the Croatian Parliament. If so, and I am so afraid of it, we did not, in that election and appointments, get an insight into who the proposings are and what proposals of the authorised proposings are accepted, which are not and why, based on what criteria, then it all becomes a farce. The National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education must have high powers, but these must be independent of the Government to the maximum extent possible by independent institutions in order to ensure that their control function and their protection of professions are highlighted in relation to the processes that take place in the ministry. When we in such a vague way appoint the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education which we did 15 days ago in the Croatian Parliament, then we question the fundamental purpose of the existence of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education. But of course that doesn't mean I don't welcome this provision here in this law where the powers of the National Council of Science are expanding. So the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support these amendments and additions of the laws and in the part in which our legislation is aligned with the legislation of the European Union, but also in the part where we are in some way liberalising some processes and where we recognise the real situation, even if I repeat, we are not glad that some of the criteria, some of the goals we have set for ourselves in recent years, have failed to achieve, so now we are actually acknowledging this law as a matter of fact. This does not mean that we should also be satisfied that even these two provisions that are being amended should not seek to return to the provisions of the existing law, which means that we have at least half of the employees with full qualifications who satisfy all conditions and equally to see lecturers wherever possible, where the nature of the professions of their activities also enables them to obtain a scientific degree of doctors and not to the end of their lives to function and work without that degree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86632	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86633	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I must say immediately in advance that I always get a little creepy when trying to solve an administrative way like this in fact a significant segment such as science and everything that is bound to science. I'm afraid that the best solutions can't do everything and that I will not be able to solve these very basic problems. They are still and all of these attached changes and additions do not actually provide a stronger, material basis for Croatia to really become a land of knowledge, a country of highly educated people where it will indeed be one of the ways of our europeanisation, modernisation and everything that actually exists in this House. But here's what I'm saying is, I'm saying some of these palitative measures I'm saying, some of which are really standing and are on the trail of these European standards, but I'm saying it's far from what we want. Not a single bill and the best one will indeed be able to give the answer when this quantity goes to quality and indeed whether sometimes when we quantify something like this, does it really mean that we will get quality solutions? I'm a bit of a talker from a very deperate situation, coming from the city, since I'm also working at the University of Joseph Jurossmayer in Osijek, where it's most normal to prescribe master's and Ph.D. until it's discovered, and then there's some unfortunate guy being taken away from the master's office, but nothing more and nothing more. Then something happens after he finds out that even that he made it possible for that cruel copying and he himself was arrested for cheating on the 30th, 40th pages, then he defends himself and says he didn't copy it from some book but it was some student research and he admits that he prescribed the students and signed his name, and as far as I'm concerned, there's almost no sanction for it in our legal solutions. An ethical commission will be established, the Ethics Commission will conclude that it is prescribed I do not know from 5 to 55 pages and what then, nothing. I think that plagiarism is really the bottom of moral shame and we can't fight plagiarism because oblivion is nothing more than that our heads function like a pierced vessel. It means something to learn, so that's how it is then I don't know the theme of serious and a little less serious media and nothing more and nothing more, and in fact it's all happening exactly at scientific institutions within this system of ours that we are going to try to improve more or less with these proposals of the law. Normally, the fact that there are about 7-8% of higher education people in Croatia, these are members of the academic community, also actually produce and generates a whole range of political and economic and economic problems. I think it must also be clear to us that this number is obviously far from satisfactory and that it is certainly a fact and a couple of exellance and a political fact and that probably this state, this long transition is probably to be thanked to the very fact that we cannot boast with science and I say then it is to praise every effort of any government, any minister or ourselves who are really trying to turn Croatia into a land of knowledge, that is to say to our students that we really can enter this game. Whether it will be 2009, 2010, 2011 we will truly be full members of the European Union, but just as our students have read that our old ones once began to study in Zagreb without any major problems, so they went to Vienna and went to Prague or Warsaw, and in some way they were citizens of Europe. That's exactly what we want and what is the intention of the party that I and the worldview that I represent, that indeed our youth and students in our universities really are people who, without any major problems like these air currents, will move without any major problems and will be able to really enroll in any university in any part of this world. Now it's normal for the administration to do it in some way and it has to make it possible so now it's... I'm saying the same thing as my colleague Josipović and my colleague Rados too, in principle it's a good text, he's not, it's hard not to accept it because it's because this way when I'm trying to bring him to absurdity, it's no matter what it means, whether it's a matter of itself, whether it's a matter of three years or why not four or why not two, it doesn't solve the problems of science in itself in itself, rather than simply saying it's more certain administrative obstacles that all of this must be met, but whether or not it's going to be fulfilled, or whether a man can do it up to 65 or 70 years and what it is then, whether he can compete at this or that scientific institution, it's saying it seems less important to me and it doesn't solve our important problems and the big question is just how much in the function of rejudging these students at our colleges and how much that this one... [[You don't understand.]] or let this practice that is otherwise in relationships and more conservative very few colleagues are actually ready to receive assistants, to allow people to advance faster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably my case belongs to that exception. I'm sticking to the Aristotles that really, it's more important that the students beat you, and not actually try them in some different ways, to keep them there for as long as possible, to suffer and to actually stay at the university, or at the university to turn them into trouble and to look forward to something bad happening to him or to retire. But we're saying it's not, unfortunately it's not a practice at our universities, and very often it's really quite likely we wouldn't even have these solutions I don't know who's trying to solve work between 65 and 70 years of life, although it's perfectly clear to me that this is one of those scientific activities that can't actually be interrupted administratively and say, and you're no longer in 65, you don't have the right to deal or I just don't know you have to leave. At last, every time an expert is good to always have, to listen well as long as the really brain swings serve him. But we are going back to this administrative, some of our remarks that we have in some discussions some of our colleagues and parties have participated in, so I will present them here to the public, the Croatian public. In discussions on the Proposal for a Law on Academic Professional Names, two basic concepts clashed. The first is the one represented by the ministry, which advocates that all those who, according to earlier regulations, have acquired higher professional training through long-term studies of automation recognise the first stage of high professional training, i.e. The level of the first-grader. And the second for which the Council of Higher Schools in Osijek stands, and it is prone to a rectorial assembly and the Agency for Science and Higher Education, part of the members of the commission who made this Law... and higher education, which suggests that the first degree of higher education can only be recognised by those who, after years of higher education, pass additional exams that determine a higher school, and are confirmed by the rectorial assembly and the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying this in our opinion this first concept is a concept of administrative... A higher degree of education than a person who has really acquired education, and the second is a concept of real attainment of higher education only through one additional education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Respecting the principle of lifelong education and the right of the individual to permanent education, this concept seeks to open wide opportunities for continuing education after all, as well as after years of professional studies, but I also say through the educational processes achieved, not through the administrative means of recognised qualifications. We think it's really important. We're already here on several occasions about some other laws just up for... The concept of this lifelong education is something that just to be these paradigms in science so quickly change and something that was relevant yesterday, today it is not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The old man says that we are still living in different times, and we think that really nothing would do anything to accept this concept, which is that after yearly and professional studies, this degree of first grade is also achieved through educated studies. In this respect, it is also proposed that (a) the relevant knowledge and skills acquired during the multi-annual work be valued and recognised during the course of the different examinations and (b) that the different examinations for civil and public service employees in state and educational institutions be without any cash compensation. Representatives of the other concepts consider that only so, and not administratively... higher educational status can preserve the uniformity of the quality of professional higher education in Croatia without bringing legal inequality to both current and former students of professional studies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, this proposal is in line with the European Qualifications Framework which Croatia will also adopt during the alignment of its educational education with European educational standards, and that is why we have proposed to amend and supplement Article 14(3), paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. The proposal for a law where we added this new paragraph of Article 5 of Article 14 that reads, let me read it. High-level universities that carry out professional studies with a professional titled first grader, i.e. a professional first degree, with the reference to the profession in accordance with Article 9 of this Act, will enable persons who have completed a professional degree's study for a shorter period of less than 3 years to pass different exams to obtain a professional name, an expert accessor, or an expert access point to the profession. The list of subjects for passing different exams and their content shall be determined by a higher school which also conducts a professional study, and jointly confirmed by the rectory choir and councils of universities and higher schools. For employees and state and public services of public higher education institutions performing professional studies, they will organise the submission of different exams without financial compensation. These, I say, are our arguments which, they point to the illogicality and possible social disadvantages of the ministry's proposal, and I say these damages are manifested in our opinion by new budgetary burdens if 150 thousand people of whom at least 50% are employed in the public and state sector will be translated administratively into a high degree of expertise. Then the second non-recognition of the administrative acquired status education by the European community as well as the creation of mistrust on the aggregate system, which over the night almost 4.2% of the population can suddenly gain high professional status. We think that, if this is not respected, our argument is brought into question and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees the rule of law by giving the same rights to those who have acquired education, as well as those who are not able to result in the number of large lawsuits against the state, since '98. The year we are known to date in Croatia on a three-year regular... The studies were graduated by about 10,000 people, and they could all claim compensation for the expenses they had up to the third year of their studies, since for the same degree of professional training they had had enough and a two-year study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And fourthly... the quality of higher education, the recognition of a high level of expertise to all those who ask for it, and who completed their two-year studies in neighbouring countries of the region, countries that differ significantly from Croatia by the quality of higher education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the main reasons why we wanted to present here. And that's exactly what we have to keep here, that very quality, because when this really opens up, or when getting a diploma becomes a simple job, then after a degree, the master's degree goes to the doctorate, then you have these cases that you really have that the question of master's and doctorate ultimately comes down to the question of the correctness of a dactylographer who's going to prescribe your work, and you're going to have a commission that will give you the green light to go through, and then you have a scandal that I'm just saying is immeasurable. But regardless of all these remarks, I hope that, that fellow Taker has listened carefully, we will, the HSLS club will give support, but we would also like to make these small remarks to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86634	Thank you. State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86635	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I called in for an intervention in order to keep the debate from going the wrong way. And I'm afraid that might happen. I simply want to draw your attention to the key things that are in this bill. Especially after the debate of the respected professor Kramarić. I think we have some things to say more precisely than I said at the outset. But before that, a brief review of the debates so far. The representative, Professor Josipovic, I think that the principle of his suggestion about the HAZU is acceptable to us. And as for other suggestions, I think our further clarification will show that what he's up for is already in our proposal. Truth in other parts, other articles. As for the discussion of an esteemed representative from the IDS Club, I draw attention that this is about the engagement of people from universities who may have scientific educational calls, but if they go to professional studies, they must be engaged in appropriate titles there. And that's teaching. So a regular professor at the university may not be suitable for a professional study. If there are no professional staff, then he would have to have appropriate work for a professional study. And in that sense, we think that this is an important reason why it makes sense to engage available potentials in that system as well. As for the observation that the debate, the proposal came quickly and without debate. Please, for more than a year in two rounds of debates at all the Senates of the university, at various real instances and occasions the debate was so wide, so thorough about the academic community that we just have a reverse question, and what are you waiting for with that law? Because things are so negotiated about the academic community and the rectoral choir and the council of colleges and high schools that we really don't know what else to do. As for the objection of the esteemed Mr. Radosh. I could say in most of that we can agree with his remarks. But, we remind ourselves, we draw attention to the question of conditions, human conditions that must have a high school at the very beginning. He's right, Mr. Radosh. The original solution was 1/3. So one third of teachers in the proper calling to get the so-called so-called. a conditional permit within five years. In one of the changes and additions, we sharpened it, the truth in a rather vague formulation. If you pay attention to the text, you'll find he's clumsy. So we sharpened it in half. From this system, therefore, a system of higher schools and universities comes the requirement to return to the original solution because it is difficult to meet that requirement. Especially in the high schools that we founded in the county and other smaller urban centres in which it is so indeed. The key problem is the staff problem. If it remains the obligation of the ministry as founder of most of the government, most of these institutions to meet the legal minimum within five years, then it seems to be a reasonable solution. Otherwise, the question arises, can we expect that outside the large urban centers, they will be able to begin doing such a high school in the first place? When it comes to a public tender for scientific recruits on funds that are not directly from the budget, I remind you that when it comes to funding from the state budget, the unconditional public tender is always an obligation. Always everywhere. Therefore, it cannot happen, nor is it in our proposal, so that it will be different. And finally, Mr. Kramaric's debate. First of all, I have to say that with most of his views, we agree. Therefore, your remarks are addressed to the wrong address. Indeed, all is allowed before the administrative increase in the number of higher education people in Croatia. What needs to be explained is that not by this law, but by the law that follows, we are now proposing a solution that you too stand for. So I don't know who you've given these reviews to. You probably have an earlier version, the first work version that isn't relevant. But what matters when it comes to the recognition of earlier qualifications and their equalization with the present. The key criterion is competence. Competence is a key criterion. And whether competences are the same or not, neither this law nor will it be written in law. Except, in principle, what I've just said is that appropriate programs and competences are evened out. The decision is made by the body that you are currently advocating, which is a rectoral assembly and council of universities and high schools, of course according to the instructions given by the ministry, which will be reflected by these very principles spoken of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86636	Thank you. Poland and Ukraine won. Yeah. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86637	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! There's a lot of value and quality being said in this debate, in the intervention of Mr. Secretary of State, so I'm actually going to say only some of mine I'd say so, synthesized observation. First, I'd say this bill is realistic. That it comes from the fact that a certain situation in those segments where it is possible to fix it. I think it is the intention of this law, this bill of law, and it absolutely has no intention of, definitely, solving the issue of scientific work in the Republic of Croatia for eternity. That's one thing. Another thing I'd say is that this law comes from the principle of positive intentions. Therefore, calling on some large surveillance systems seems to me that it is not appropriate at all to one law in which... scientific activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Scientific activity is one ethical activity, the commitment of people. It's not an activity that's luxuriant too. Therefore, it should always go from positive intentions. I, though, am disgusted as much as my colleague Kramarić. I think the fact that someone is prescribing scientific papers, but please, who can put a clause into one law that it's forbidden to copy scientific papers? Well, that would be radical. Therefore, the clear question of practice, the question of how to sanction it, that the scientific community itself excludes such people from its Corps, from its environment, rather than the introduction of some legal clause that would define it. I'm sure he didn't think so. But I'm saying, here's an example. Second, the question of some aspects of supervision and some of the doubts that arise. The question of this teacher's work from 65 to 70 and then the question of the possibilities introduced by this law that if these teachers do not continue working in their home institution they choose to go to work at another scientific institution where they are needed or also at higher schools, it means one institution that is below the level of the university, a university where they used to teach. I would also not pessimistically approach that principle at all because it seems to me that there is one already very well-installed corrective clause, and that is that if a young scientist who has all the qualifications in that position of a 68-year-old gentleman simply cannot be extended to him by an employment contract. Therefore, there is a very clear clause. So, it is not a question that someone will choose a man who has thus expired this working age, but on the other hand, I think it is very necessary, given the question of the great scarcity of the staff in our universities and at our particularly high and similar universities, that it is necessary to leave that opportunity for quality people to do as long as they can and contribute to the development and quality and height of that institution they work in. Therefore, I think that these items are very high quality, very good, to respond to reality and to make it impossible on one hand to block it forever by certain cathedrals and also where it is necessary to enable people to engage and work while they can be useful and while they can contribute to their work. The issue of private scientific organisations also mentioned the issue of supervision in these private scientific organisations. The private science organization has absolutely every reason to look and choose the highest quality personnel. Only in that way can it be affirmed, it can achieve in the end line if you want profit, only in that way. Therefore, fearing that a private scientific organisation will allow its acts to choose some non-skillers, some unskilled people, it is also necessary in vain because I say to such organisations is very much in the interest of having the most quality fit and that, if possible, if they can even attract it, it happens in the world to attract when with these, say, state scientific institutions. Just a few more remarks. I'm sorry no one noticed one thing that seemed very important to me. I mean, it's not... to overlook this proposal of this law, which is that high schools for the needs of military and police education are actually involved in the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are involved in the system of scientific and university work. So it seems to me that one fact is very important and absolutely important. As far as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is concerned, I would also be inclined to accept that amendment, or the amendment proposed by my colleague Josipovic, that the choice in scientific knowledge that is now given to this right to the Academy must be based on the decision of the parent board, it is absolutely because we know that classes, academic classes that appear here as those units that have the right to select classes that have the function of scientific councils and we know that it is not necessary under the academic rules that people with the relevant scientific degrees are sitting in those classes, in general. The Academy has its selection principles and therefore needs absolutely this corrective measure since I say that classes and academia are not chosen according to those scientific criteria by which teachers and members of the university community, scientific institutes and everything else are elected. Just one more remark. It's a matter of working in other universities and scientific institutions. I think it's very good to make it very clear here that a single teacher from one university can get out of his basic workplace at most one-third of the time. There was a real need to say I'm not going to say abuse but people who had a very wide procedure so they taught in many places and picked up such a material benefit that was not to be condemned because university teachers and scientists had been paid badly for a long time, but I think it's absolutely time to regulate these things. As far as working in other institutions is concerned, it is also logical to exclude work in those institutions where competition can be assumed. So he can't work in a college that's actually a competition college that's his parent. That's all right, I mean. However, as far as I'm concerned, I think the issue of these is also well resolved, we need to think about these new colleges, the new universities that are being created. In fact, there is indeed a great need to help outsiders in the first stage of these universities. We have an example of Split, the Faculty of Philosophy, which was initially just a study of humanistic sciences where several teachers were engaged in languages, etc., but for example in a study of history they did not have a single teacher of their own. The Zagreb Department of History of the Faculty of Philosophy has taken over a complete Split study, but now after three years you already have young personnel who are building and gradually changing this relationship and creating one possibility of developing their own staff and their own scientific staff. I also think that it was very necessary and necessary in relation to this change of law, this question is 100%, 50%, 25% and it is clear that, at some other point, it may be more accurate that these are basic research, which are applied and what they are developmental research, although we all know about it, but I don't think it would be wrong to specify that. Otherwise, I think that the Croatian Democratic Community club will absolutely support these amendments and amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity, because at this point we consider it very useful, very desirable and I repeat another realistic one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86638	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for the individual hearing for ten minutes. The word has a distinguished representative of the Zvonimir Sabbath club HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86639	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, present several of our observations on this proposed law, amendments and additions to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, of course, with the Final Bill. At first, I will just say that we will certainly support these changes and, above all, for the reasons that a whole series of practical remarks by scientific organisations that have had observations in the existing law are in some way and well-respected here. It is certainly necessary to bear in mind the fact that here it is important and only to comply with European legislation. So it is also good that we are taking care of it even though it is only partial, but on the other hand it is also interesting that when we talk about this law then we must remember that it was passed on July 17, 2003 and that in the meantime two amendments were already made. Thus, it means that a spottaneous response with, from scientific organizations is being monitored. It's also good to have an immediate response. There must be a lot of positive things that have been solved here. I'll comment a little, but I'll make some remarks. Article 10 of which speaks of the employment of scientific recruits for the purposes of, of course, scientific organisations with their resources. But it's mentioned here that they can be chosen without a public competition. I am deeply convinced that this is a good part and that they support scientific organisations because it also simplifies the process itself and it is certainly a practical solution. But on the other hand, if we're trying again somehow to focus on the general public of work and on the pragmaticity of applying a whole series of other similar laws, I don't know the Law on Public Competition and so forth, then it seems to me that we're a little deviating from our usual practice here. And it can in some ways cause a partial negative reaction within the organization itself. Maybe not management or something, but there's always someone who'd want to hear from you but didn't have a chance to answer it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "without a public competition" I think it's a little questionable for me. I don't see why it would also be "on the basis of a public tender" and anyway, the administration has the opportunity to choose who will best meet the demands of the scientific organisation but will still have the opportunity to see what the interest is. Today, young people have a desire, they have opportunities even at the end of the day to prove themselves but they don't have on, then based on this law and the possibility to come forward. Some kind of basic law has been denied here. Article 11 is fine. I think it is a good thing that here it is in some way put into paragraph 2 that work outside the parent scientific organisation is reduced to only one third of the working time and in this first paragraph is determined and determined in some way and so far, at the end and from, the necessary consent of the parent scientific organisation which is normally always given unless it was a major competition of the parent scientific organisation. So this is good to limit the end to one-third of the working time. Article 13. I have to admit I'm a little bit here and surprised, this is for practice good. By all accounts, do we know what the demands are? How many eventually do we have a doctor of science, how many masters do we have, how many assistants do we have? We know all that together, and we know it's too little. And finally here, in this article 13 for practical reasons, it went in a variant to allow the normal functioning of scientific organisations. But compared to the previous provisions it is, I would say step back. Maybe we should have thought about it as quickly as possible, as best as possible to create the preconditions so that it stays on a larger number of doctors of science. First of all, a doctor of science to perform a specific, specific program. Now allow me perhaps one, one observation related to articles, I don't know, 18 and so that, which are here, Article 18 above all that refers here to the possibility of re-election or re-election, of course, after 3 years or before the end of 5 years as defined. So basically we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club have discussed this issue a lot, and here we would have one serious dilemma or some kind of remark if we could say so. Namely, only what was not covered or not covered by these amendments and additions to the Law is precisely about elections in the same or more scientific teaching. According to the new law, a tender for election in the same or more titles may be opened before, rather than a year before the term for which the employee has been elected but not before the end of the 3 years since the previous election. However, according to the old or better words of the Old Law on High Schools, this possibility of early tendering was put only for the choice of higher calling. What does that mean exactly? Article 117 is amended as follows: The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, paragraph 2, states that re-elections provided for in this Act or earlier regulations will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of that Act. And within the time limit provided for by which the last choice was made. That provision is exactly and therefore puts in an unequal position, specifically I will say regular professors here. Under the new law, they can be elected to a permanent term after a three-year period, but if they are elected under the old law, then it must be 5 years. I know it's a little hard to change at the end of the day and something, but I still think we should apply a more favourable law. I also know my parent scientific organization, the Faculty of Informatics in Varazdin, sent a letter to our Ministry and I had the opportunity or had the opportunity to see your answer better, and I certainly know that there is no easy solution at the end. I mean, I've had the chance or I've had the chance to see your answer better, and I'm sure I know that it's not possible, after all, a simple solution. Namely, I'll explain again what this is all about. Namely, if the teacher is elected to the scientific, the teaching term of a regular professor according to the provisions of the Law on Higher Schools, the choice of a permanent calling of a regular professor will take place within the time limit provided for by the law. So, the Law of High Schools. Article 76 of the first Law on Higher Schools stipulates that a teacher is elected to a scientific-teacher at a time of five years, and the second paragraph of the same provision prescribes that a teacher may be elected in more, and now there is that one, that is the catch. So, only in one more scientific teaching call before the deadline is out. So, there's no one here in the same or more, but only more in the Law on High Schools. And for this very reason, the choice of a permanent calling of a regular, for example permanently, second choice, the choice of a permanent calling of a regular professor cannot be made before the end of five years of the previous election to a scientific, teaching term of a regular professor. So, in our opinion, this is one flaw that makes it kind of impossible to apply a more favourable right. Therefore, if it is in any way possible to install it in this bill that is before us because it is ultimately the final proposal of the law, it would certainly be fair to such a category of scientists. Here, including these funding provisions or state aids which are well stated here, I believe that the other provisions of this bill are fine and we will say them for that reason. But I'm asking you one more time to think about it, I know it's clear to me, but I'm saying if there's any chance that there's a more favourable right to be used and for, say, regular teachers after the first election that I don't know in 2003. He cannot be in an equal position with those chosen for the first time, of course, in calling a regular professor, for example in 2004. I know, it's that problem that's hard to solve, but if it's possible at all, even for a small number of these teachers, it would certainly be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86640	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86641	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will begin this debate with one sentence mentioned by my colleague Vesna Škara Ozbolt from yesterday's "Contact" show, which I did not watch, where our university colleague Zarko Puhovski said the following sentence: "There was no genocide in Vukovar." Now, under this law, two questions are being asked, whether the sentence spoken by a scientist or a sentence spoken by a politician. I think this law should regulate the rights and obligations of scientists, professional scientists and teachers in their public appearances especially in relation to the use of scientific and teaching titles in order to preserve the dignity of Croatian science. In fact, we do not know whether he said this on the basis of his basic applied or developmental research and whether the law should provide for some sanctions, including sanctions to take away scientific titles for the pronunciation of public attitudes that abuse legitimacy, the public legitimacy of science to express not only scientific, but a pair of scientific, quasi-data of scientific political and all other debates. I think that there is a good-looking or unfortunate coincidence in this law to discuss just a day after or two days after the great tragedy at Virginia Tech in America, and I think it would be a convenient opportunity for Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament to give on behalf of this High House the expressions of support, understanding and grief to the president of the American Congress, meaning actually the speaker of Congress and the university there, reminding that today we are discussing it. I don't think it's just a gesture, but it's about the need to protect the university's autonomy institution. University autonomy in the United States also means that if you watched yesterday's news that there is and writes Virginia Tech Police. So that's where the universities have their own police, and at all costs we have to defend the autonomy of universities beyond these incidents. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about the good and less good decisions of this law. There's a lot of good solutions. There's one missing anyway. He spoke of it marginally but also shrewd colleague Zlatko Kramarić. It's an intellectual pick-up, plagiarism and organised crime in the area. You see, all recent copying in Croatia has not only not been sanctioned, but it was part of the ideology of universal or social property. I personally wrote a major essay there in the 1970s on reform, economic reform in Croatia, so I asked Dusko Bilandzic to lend it to him to read it. There were 50 pages of that text. Then he published it at that time, wrote one ten, fifteen pages, and when I asked him why he did it, he said he was under pressure to rewrite it, or hand over the manuscript, and it was thought that it was a matter of civil courtesy to me to take away my intellectual property. After that, of course, I couldn't publish it. So we're witnessing a culture of stealing at all levels. I have on several occasions advocated that even in this House, documents are not received that have no authorship mark, not only institutional, but also personal, that people simply force themselves to be responsible for their own work. You have a situation in Croatia today that according to surveys conducted at some universities around 60 to 80% of students copying in exams. It's considered part of a traditional culture, where it's considered if you don't prescribe and if you don't manage, buddy, that you're something less valuable. We have to create a completely different culture. Some of our non-scientists from the High House also prescribed works with the help of their mentors. We must foresee here a whole chapter, Mr. Secretary of State, on plagiarism and on the seizure of both scientific titles and qualifications and the distance of such people from the university. This is one of the fundamental problems of Croatian science. Another problem, which is not in a serious way, has been touched by the problem of commercialising the acquisition of scientific degrees at the level of postgraduate education. The doctorate at some colleges goes beyond a hundred thousand kunas today, means doctoral studies or self-applications and defenses of the doctorate. While, for many reasons, some of the parties in this House are pushing for free schooling to university level, the circumstance is ignored that the poor will not practically be able to break through to universities in Croatia. If you add to that the technology of widespread nepotism to most colleges, especially in some colleges, and then you will have one situation of negative social and often intellectual selection of these people. The further problem that needs to be taken seriously is the problem also discussed by fellow Sabati and counterpart Josipovic, a right so far that has not had HAZU in the choice of scientific knowledge. And I'm personally against it, and with sound reasons, especially since it's about the right choice of the rank minimum would be for these people to pass normal procedures at their home colleges like myself as a professor of medical school normally to be elected to their home economics college, because of course, my colleague Hebrang couldn't properly judge if I knew anything if I did, from the field of economics. So in that sense, I think it's one step back. Step back and I consider introducing a combined age criterion for scientific progress. These 3 and plus 3 years can be a good solution on short notice. I'll tell you, a young boy here from Croatia, I'll mention his name, his name is Pavel Shavor was chosen practically directly for a regular professor at a prestigious American university. If he had to be chosen under this law, he'd have to wait 15, 20 years. So this criterion of age, age as a criterion must actually be combined with the criteria of scientific excellence. So if you're dealing with a man who can make a scientific production in a year or two in a year that other people can do in 10 or 15 years, that should definitely be tolerated. And the second and last thing regarding the red tape of science, I personally have been a victim of the red tape of science in the last few months, Mr. Secretary of State, with obvious signs of conspiracy, of mediocrity that doesn't know the scientific excellence that people are doing in the West. It is at this level of scandalousness that I will very soon inform both this High House and the Croatian public. Because this type of incompetent relationship in the process of nostrifying diplomas acquired in the United States combined with the informative mentality of part of the bureaucratic apparatus creates one for me personally humiliating situation that I no longer want to tolerate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86642	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Sabbath.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I actually doubted whether to go with the correcting of the incorrect quote, but I decided to do the replica by giving my colleague a chance to let him say more clearly what he wanted. Because in this opening part of the book on intellectual pocketing, that is, about the culture of stealing at all levels, about the culture of copying very educationally for me I would tell all of us who are involved in this work, and also about all students who attend classes mentioned 70 to 80 percent of students who prescribe... between the other and the written exams, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think it can spread and spread. However, it seems to me that it is not quite so at this point because the Bologna system still slightly different values the work of a student himself from the presence of lectures, there is a natural record of attending lectures, exercises by laboratory,... their activities related, and seminar work and certain tasks of activity at the level of follow-up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it can happen that a number of students are actually released before they come to the school. I mean actually to collect enough points so that this 70, 80% copying I don't think it stands. But I absolutely agree that we should introduce some different way of culture of evaluation of students themselves, even slightly wider and pragmatic compared to this existing system of points given by the Bologna process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86644	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86645	I wasn't covered. I said that sometimes copying was almost ideologically desirable, because it proved the form of solidarity and willingness to help neighbors in need. I'm just talking about new culture. You have one situation that an ex-dean, or former professor at the Faculty of Economics, has been prescribed by a so-called Original scientific paper '85%. As far as I can tell, he was also on some civilian surveillance committee for the work of the Secret Service. So I wouldn't want that plagiarization culture to actually remain legitimate. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86646	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86647	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which is another step in the great way that the Ministry has plowed, which is the transformation of higher education and overall scientific activity and this large complex area. The ministry immersed broad furrows and in high school education, even lower, on the base, and especially on this tall one. Let us only remember access to the Bologna processes, remember the reorganisation of scientific activities and a whole series of other procedures. So I consider this Final Bill a single step towards the realization of the government's plans. The amendment has been brought here for two reasons, or proposed. Due to the observed shortcomings in the legislation so far, on the one hand, and due to the approximation or entry into the European Union on the other hand tomorrow. Since the secretary of state has extensively explained all the articles I will only focus on some, and then spread a little, perhaps in some parts of the debate beyond this proposal. Therefore, Articles 1 to 3 sets out the method of approval for work, the authorisation for work in the field of science. So far this has been applied to scientific institutes, one definition that has not been legally defined and has been too narrow and is now being extended to scientific organisations and, of course, to higher universities. When talking about higher schools, then it should be said that the regulation applies to obtaining allowances and registration at universities owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also to those private universities that participate in their financing part of the funding from the state budget. So they are all subject to those prescribed procedures for the National Council of Science, for scientific activities, or for the National Council of Higher Education, for higher schools, it makes a proposal, i.e. a recommendation to the Minister of Science and Education for the issuing of a licence or to those two other means of decision-making in which these credentials are not issued. On the basis of such a licence, it is confirmed that the scientific organisation or higher school meets the prescribed standards and conditions and thus obtains a quality guarantee in both these areas, namely in science and higher education. At the same time, the Ministry shall keep such a register and only those who have passed the procedure described and thus meet the highest requirements laid down by the regulations in these two areas. Article 5 corrects the possibility of the Minister of Science declaring it a center of excellence as a scientific organization. This time it goes down to a lower level, it can declare it a centre of excellence and a structural unit of the scientific organisation under conditions that meet very strict criteria, including international judgment, which is unusually important. So guarantee quality, guarantee quality beyond borders, and of course such a structural unit must be highlighted in its scientific work for the actuality of this work, for originality, for the importance of scientific work and for all that were the criteria. In the follow-up to the text, we see that such a structural unit will also be able to apply independently to scientific projects, which is certainly a stimulant to individual structural units that bounce in their scientific organisations of such cases. Professor Letica gave one interpretation of the specifics in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art which is a little dissonant with the solution in this law. I agree with him a lot. The Croatian Academy of Arts is also a function of the Scientific Council, in other words, and they can conduct the selection of their employees in the title. This is explained by the HAZO Act, which is explained by the HAZO Statute, although they do not have sufficient numbers of their employees, by certain titles they have the status of scientific councils in their classes and this is absolutely the right and there is absolutely no objection there. It's just a matter of possible abuse. In other words, is it possible now that one of the employees of the ZOD comes this short way so let's call it a conditional bypass, to a scientific national calling with conditions which at his home university would not meet. So that's a question of some kind of objectivity, possible objectivity. I am of course in favour of this solution because it gives HAZO another special importance in a practical sense, but perhaps in the future it should be installed some kind of insurance policy that does not allow HAZO employees to benefit from or potentially better situations than those that are not HAZO employees. As for the extension of the working age of employees, or scientists in permanent calling and regular teachers in permanent calling, it was absolutely time to equalize. In other words, such as after 65 years, the professor can extend his working relationship. This should, of course, also apply to a scientific advisor in a permanent calling and this law is corrected. So far, a scientific consultant in a permanent call after 65 years could not extend the existing working relationship but could, in certain circumstances, have no other candidates, etc. get a contract on work for a certain time. It is certainly a destimulation of scientific advisors in a permanent choice, a permanent calling, and a new law encourages them to continue their experience, transfer their knowledge after 65 years if the need for scientific organisation to their young colleagues is indicated. In addition to security, this ensures in some way the continuity and association of generations in the scientific work of a scientific organisation which is of particular importance in this area. The next rule, which is set in law for over 65 years of age, I also think it can be observed with two aspects. In order to ensure greater mobility of scientists in scientific organisations and higher education teachers, there was a restriction on the absence of a provision that after 65 years could compete in another scientific organisation or higher education. In order to encourage this mobility in this text, it is possible to participate in competitions in another scientific organisation and high school regardless of what 65 years of life have been. Of course, it's a clear intensity to me, it's high-level mobility, it's helping and encouraging new universities to help organize high-quality teaching, high-quality scientific work. But I'm asking a question to what extent it can be difficult because in some ways it detimises let's say smaller universities, less scientific organizations to produce their own staff because it expects help from a larger centre after 65 years of some scientist or some teacher. I call it Human Hole patch syndrome and this syndrome is very present in some of our new universities, and this syndrome can help in the initial phase, but if it takes too long to destimulate, so as an example, I will list two new medical colleges in Split and Osijek, of which, for example, Split has stepped very quickly on its own feet, and today we must strongly support the students from Zagreb, so it is almost a rule that whoever turned 65 has a regular university professor at the Zagreb Medical School, moves to Osijek. Is it good and how long it's been good it's an open question although I say the law enforcement is absolutely clear, but I think that human hole patching syndrome can have adverse consequences in the long run. The same applies to Article 13 which mitigates the conditions for obtaining a permit to work at universities or high school where the current criterion is that there must be at least 50% of teachers in the labor contract, it is now down to 30%, and yet here is the legislator's clear intensity, which is to support the expansion of such centres. But I'm asking in the long run isn't this human-hole patching syndrome? But finally to conclude, all in all this text that is ahead of us will certainly mean a more important step in implementing the reorganisation of higher education and science and with these few notes that should be considered in the future I certainly think that this Law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86648	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86649	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow a brief final review. First of all, thank all the debaters for their really useful opinions, suggestions. Let me have one personal impression. This is who knows which way to go with the bill proposals before you, and especially in these sensitive issues the contributions of people who speak very competently about it by parliamentary representatives who are themselves in science, talk about things that the ministry's proposing really respects and is manifested about them. There's a request about that. If the debaters feel that we need to further clarify, communicate, and for whatever reason there was not enough time we would be very pleased with any open call by Dr Sabati, it is our need to perhaps hear his argument in more detail, we are at your disposal in this regard for any communication. A few references to the last things that have been said. As for the requirement that therefore scientific innovations financed outside the state budget should go without competitions, the motivation of those who have proposed this to us from the economy is very simple, efficient. They say they're people who've been checked out already at that job, they're not new people, they've proven themselves at that job. Ours, they say the exclusive motive is not to waste new time, new months in competition for this or that reason, and we suggest that we go into it. But let's keep that question open too, so that's the motivation. Perhaps we should explain these three years and the inability to skip elections to higher calling. Please. A man can skip a choice in scientific calling, there's no limit. I was gonna tell Dr. Letica, see if he came out, maybe he didn't look closely at the text. So in science, it is possible to skip everything and quite a young man can, in a scientific sense, immediately be a scientific consultant if there are scientific papers published in magazines that are respectable, etc., but that is not the case. This is about the fact that there is no skipping elections to jobs preceding the elections in scientific titles before that, we say a minimum three-year period. Why did we decide that? So the people who run these institutions say if we didn't even have that minimum limit, we're afraid that someone else, by some other logic, would dictate the structure of that organization that has its own structure, which has some order of things with us, and in that order, things aren't scientific competence the only thing we need to have in order to have a job position. It seemed respectable to us, and we think it should be respected. A very interesting discussion by Dr Letice about the need to say so the plagiarism culture attacks by law. I have to speak plainly, we look at it a little bit. We are aware of the great dangers of spreading the culture of plagiarists, lies, etc., but the question is whether in science we should fight with the law? Perhaps, but certainly if not to amend and supplement the existing law, we must probably open up some debate, perhaps a new, thorough, responsible, with a note that even now, in the system of higher education science, there are normative ones, and I would say a real network or systems or subsystems intended for that fight. I will remind only that in the statutes of universities and other higher schools of higher schools, universities, individual universities etc. We have very elaborate criteria about this thing as well. We also have something called the ethical code right. So, ethical codes which certainly define in these frameworks quite specifically what this means in medicine, of course referring to some others for this area of relevant norms, scientific, ethical, professional etc. We think it should be strengthened, it should strengthen that kind of social, deliberately not tell the state, just saying the social power that within and based on the legality of the profession and science seems to be able to give it more, and let's by law open that space to it as effective as possible. I think it would make a good approach. And finally, as far as Dr. Sabati's last proposal is concerned, about the final five or three years. Well, it still seems to us that, first of all, we need to contribute to man, but we have come from the last instance that man has reached, the highest possible. So he's a scientific advisor, and by his choice of scientific advice, he's come to this permanent calling that no one can ever take away from him again. We think we should also indicate that length the difference of that final degree from the previous degrees that were all the same, all the same, etc. And so it seems to us that it could be accepted and accepted by those to whom it refers as a difficult status, an honorable status, and that therefore it has to be something different than the earlier statuses that are only one of the many steps in that growth. We don't have any other reason for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86650	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86651	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not correct that respected fellow professors discussed in the Croatian Assembly on the subject, they discussed. I just need to correct you because this is about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which also prescribes lecturers at foreign universities. I think we should start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86652	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86653	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity, Higher Education. The amendments were submitted by HNS's representative club and MP Ivo Josipovic. Here you go. ... Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86654	The amendment is adopted by the Proposer, and Article 16 is about amending and supplementing Article 74. The law. In paragraph 6 behind the word "specificist of a particular profession", points are put in place and we will "specialise". And that's accepted. The rest of the text is deleted as HNS Representatives' Club requested. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86655	I didn't understand you very well. You speak a little more clearly to the Secretary of State. The amendment, in some part, is accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86656	The entire amendment of the HNS Representatives Club is hereby adopted Yeah. [[/Intruder: And is accepted?]] Yeah, well, I apologize, I didn't... [[/Intruder: A is?]] Sustained, yes. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86657	Yeah. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendments by MP Ivo Josipovic. Amendment 1.?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86658	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86659	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86660	Amendment 2 is not accepted. And an explanation of the following: the obligation to call a public tender for elections in co-operational scientific and professional titles and appropriate jobs and to select scientific recruits is already prescribed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. For all jobs in scientific organisations, in general Article 40(2), which prescribes that election posts in public and scientific organisations shall be carried out on the basis of a public tender and separate provisions laying down the selection procedure for a particular calling and the corresponding position. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86661	Thank you. We should vote, and the representative is not present. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 18 for, 3 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86662	The same is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86663	Thank you. There's a vote to vote on. Who, please, is the result? 14 for. Five abstentions. 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 85 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the Law was passed as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86664	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure - first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 652 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Drazen Bregelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow a few introductory sentences on the draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act. First of all, I would like to inform you further about the current moment of the circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located from the aspect of its international, international membership in air traffic-related organisations. To point out that Croatia is a member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the European Civil Aviation Conference and the European Aviation Safety Organisation. In addition, the air traffic management of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has been a full member of the European Organisation of Air, Aviation Authorities since March 2004. It is necessary to stress that full membership in the common aviation authorities and full adoption of their requirements is also one of the conditions for full membership in the European Union. Furthermore, in early 2006 an agreement on a common European airspace was signed, so-called ECAA agreement. The objective of the agreement is to fully harmonise Croatian national legislation in the area of air traffic with EU legislation. By signing this Agreement, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to implement in its legislation of the Regulation and of the Directives covered by this Agreement in accordance with the stages defined in the Agreement. The Air Transport Act itself, which is now in force in 1998, has suffered a single amendment adopted in 2004. The process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, which has been established by the national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2007, provides for amendments and additions to the Law on Air Transport. This law is in line with the acquis of the European Union and with the following specific regulations and directives. By means of a Regulation on the licensing of air carriers which deals specifically with the right of establishment of air carriers by issuing an operational licence. The basic principle of the Regulation is that if an air carrier meets the criteria in relation to economic and technical capacity, it is then entitled to be granted an operating licence. The operating licence may only be issued to air carriers holding a valid certificate of competence, etc. Air Operator Certificate, which guarantees technical capability. The operating licence shall be valid while the air carrier meets the specific prescribed conditions. The following Directive harmonizes with Council Directive 2000/79 of 2000 on the European Working Time Agreement for Civil Aviation Mobile Employees has laid down certain rules specifically applicable to mobile air transport employees, i.e. pilot, cabin and pilot personnel. The Directive does not establish a comprehensive framework within which it is possible to prescribe a limitation of working time. According to the directive, mobile employees should not work more than 2,000 hours a year, while flight time is limited to a maximum of 900 hours a year. Mobile employees are entitled to at least four weeks of vacation, at least 96 hours, 96 days of leave per year and at least 7 days of leave per month. They also have the right to free medical examination, adequate protection at work, and nutrition during work. The aim of this Directive is to increase air traffic security which is achieved by removing fatigue and the stress of mobile employees. Next Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 establishing a framework for the creation of a single European sky, so-called the framework regulation, followed by the Regulation on the provision of services and the Regulation on common requirements for the provision of air navigation services which are part of the Single European Sky Regulation, which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement in its legislation by virtue of a signed agreement on a common European airspace. Under these regulations, each Member State must appoint a national supervisory authority whose tasks will primarily be certification and continuous supervision of air navigation service providers, as well as other related operations. Since the purpose of setting up a national supervisory authority is to increase air navigation security, this task is entrusted to the Agency as a body whose goal is precisely the concern of the safety and integrity of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. The harmonisation with those Directives and regulations has been achieved by introducing an operational licence that has so far not existed, the ownership which is the basis for the operation of air carriers in the European Union. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the laws in the part relating to working hours, flight time and rest of flight crew members, aircraft, and the amendments and additions relating to airspace management, air navigation services and certification and surveillance of air navigation service providers. In addition, it is important to stress that these EU regulations will be implemented in more detail through the implementing rules adopted under the Air Transport Act. Furthermore, amendments and additions of the Air Transport Act are also proposed to the establishment of the Civil Aviation Agency, which can be freely qualified as the most significant amendment adopted by this proposal. A civil aviation agency shall be established as a legal person who, on the basis of public authority, independently conducts administrative and other operations relating to air traffic, airports, air navigation security operations and, in particular, continuous surveillance of aircraft operators, licensed aircraft personnel and aircraft navigation, as well as overall air traffic control, as well as other tasks given to it by this law, in the jurisdiction. The amendments and additions of the Air Transport Act also focus on harmonising with the regulations governing the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue as the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the protection and rescue. So much for this opening part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86666	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86667	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, fellow MPs and deputies. The Air Transport Act as a basic law governing the issue of air traffic contains provisions on the organisation of air traffic in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia and competent in that area, conditions for safe operation of air traffic, air transport and other activities in air traffic, entry into the Croatian civil aircraft registers, state belonging and registration marks of aircraft, conditions for safe use of aircraft and aircraft, airports, conditions that must be met by aircraft as well as other professional personnel, provision of air navigation services, research, endangering the safety of aircraft and aircraft accidents, search and rescue of aircraft, safety of air traffic, environmental protection measures and protection of the population from the noise of aircraft, inspection of the competent ministry and other bodies of the Ministry and their powers, as well as air traffic offences. Since 1992, the Republic of Croatia has been a member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation established to develop the principle of technology and to encourage and develop international air transport. The Republic of Croatia is also a member of the Conference of Civil Aviation, the European Aviation Safety Organisation. The air traffic management of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development since 2004 is a full member of the European Joint Aviation Organisation. It is necessary to stress that full membership in the common aviation authorities and full adoption of their requirements is also one of the preconditions for joining the European Union. Full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Union as well as... Democratic freedom and economic development is a fundamental objective of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the key preconditions in this process other than the implementation of internal reforms and stronger economic development is the takeover of European regulatory and European aviation standards. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act are encouraged in particular to comply with the applicable provisions with the legal acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act contain provisions that comply with certain international obligations and practices that are important and necessary to implement. The unity of the European sky and Regulation 522/2004. on the interoperability of the European airspace management network, part of the regulation that the Republic of Croatia is based on the signing of the obligation agreement in its legislation. According to these regulations, each Member State must appoint a national supervisory authority whose task is primarily to certification and continuous supervision of air navigation service providers as well as other related transactions. Since the purpose of setting up a national supervisory authority is to increase air navigation security and these amendments and additions to the Law on Air Transport of the Republic of Croatia are entrusted to the Agency as a body whose aim is precisely to ensure the safety of all air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. Harmonisation with that EU regulation was made by introducing an operational licence which so far did not exist and having the basis for operating an air carrier in the European Union, then amending and supplementing the law on the part relating to working time, flight time, flight holidays, flight vacations, and amendments and additions relating to air navigation services and certification and supervision of air navigation service providers. It is recommended that the air traffic management become an administratively independent state institution and, among other things, be appointed as a national supervisory board. Therefore, the amendments and additions of the Air Traffic Act are directed among other things to the establishment of the Civil Aviation Agency are appropriate and practical organisations outside the state administration system which will carry out autonomously in the context of their activities of the administration and other tasks relating to air transport, airports, air navigation security matters and, in particular, continuous surveillance of aircraft operators licensed from each of those personnel and aircraft navigation, including the maintenance of aircraft and overall airspace surveillance. The Civil Aviation Agency shall be established as a legal person who, on the basis of public authority, will carry out the tasks laid down by this law. The Agency shall be an expert organisation which, in accordance with rapid technical and technological developments in civil aviation, allows the monitoring and implementation of international standards necessary to fulfil the responsibility of the State for the control of air safety. Finally, it is important to note that the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act ensures continued harmonisation and implementation of existing regulations and solutions, norms and recommendations provided for in the international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has joined. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86668	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86669	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear proposings, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regulates the basis for the adoption of all necessary laws and of course we have no objections. The assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be addressed by this amendment are in the fact that the management of air traffic at the Ministry of the Sea has never received, until now, at least a satisfactory assessment of the transit and expertise neither from AUDIT, hence international civil aviation organisation, that is, the International Civil Aviation Organisation or the UN Sub-Committee, based on their foundations on the overall turnover of the globe of the Earth. Neither does "Joint Aviation Authorities" of the European Union's common aviation authorities. In view of the fact that this draft bill is not available at all for the analysis of the aviation profession, therefore not given to all users of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, it is not given to carriers or airports, nor to the economic chamber, nor to the trade union, nor to other institutions or any other interested entities to submit their necessary proposals and observations to the proposed draft of this proposal. The appropriate amendments to the existing Air Transport Act are both questionable and questionable for both economic and security reasons. Given that this law establishes a civil aviation agency and the means to start work are provided only there is a fear of work the agency will fall on the burden of aircraft operators and other aircraft organisations where I particularly underline Croatia's air traffic control which makes its income a well-developed air traffic control system and for its services receives a harmonised, appropriate fee through so-called so-called. "unit trade" for its services from all air carriers using air traffic, the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the second paragraph states that the implementation of the provisions of this law does not require the provision of specific resources in the state budget is based solely on the fact that this law amends and supplements the Air Transport Act and implementation which will fall on the back and burdens of aircraft operators and carriers, airports and, in particular, on the burden of Croatian air traffic control whose renaming is proposed as service provider. In view of the fact that the precise and decided and certain financial reasons are also behind the proposal for the adoption of this draft law, the costs of the Agency's work would be charged through various fees and charges from economic operators and only partly from the budget which would now be subject to the applicable Air Transport Act. It is required to adopt an emergency procedure by hiding it behind the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and in order for MPs in the Assembly not to see all the consequences of the Law amending the law. In order to make this better clear, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the European Union aviation regulation, which has been partially harmonised so far, as well as transforming the air traffic administration into a now independent Civil Aviation Agency. The formation of the Civil Aviation Agency will partially transfer the funding of the Agency to the aviation, aviation and aviation economies of the Republic of Croatia and from the Agency's operations is not visible to that particular aviation economy that needs to be maintained. All these jobs are now being carried out by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Air Traffic Administration and the competent services of surveillance, inspections. Through inspection work. Only the formation of an agency modelling other countries such as the European Union, the United States, Canada and even Serbia have done so. Unlike others, however, it is not appropriate and adequately elaborated system of funding for agencies. Only funds are provided for the start of work amounting to 3 million kuna. No precise answer has been offered as further funding. Point 3 of the score-point doesn't talk any further about it. The answer is provided that the operations of the Agency will be secured from the Agency’s activity and the prices of the Agency’s services are not visible anywhere. It is important to know that the introduction of prices for these services that have not yet been charged by the air transport administration will shift to the end-user, thereby reducing the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Although this does not seem to require additional funding from the Budget, it is entirely unclear who will, when and how much will pay compensation for the Agency's services and will that be enough to finance the Agency itself? In fact, on a small Croatian market, who will actually pay for it? Airports that are all other than Zagreb at the border of rentability in terms of traffic, small aircraft carriers, airline taxis, small aircraft owners or someone else. The Agency is essentially in other countries designed to assist the development of aviation and directly participate in the same through coordination procedures with carriers, airports and the like. And with the establishment of the Agency, with the same basic idea due to undefined funding, it would become a type of supervisory authority and a clean burden to the aviation economy in which it does not receive any new service in relation to the situation so far. But that's why he gets extra financial burden on his own business. In fact, the costs of the Agency's work wish to be transferred from budget to airspace user. Airports and all other air traffic participants. For example, and perhaps even at maintenance workshops. The goods transport and finally in the final instance and on the passengers themselves. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party, we can say that we disagree in particular with the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act because the final result of such an amended Air Transport Act is not known to the Republic of Croatia in the future. The harmonisation of the law with the European Union's normative acts should be comprehensively analysed so as not to establish by joining the European Union that the law adopted thus does not correspond to us in national and emerging circumstances. I note this mainly because of the fact that once we have adopted air traffic laws and standards in the EU countries and we, with our technical and technological activities, have not been able to fully meet them. Namely, Croatia fully and hastily accepted the regulations that "Joint Aviation Regulation" rules prescribing "Joint Authorities" and so on, i.e. the European Union itself. Not giving exclusives to certain parts of the regulations adopted, which she should have. The result is a negative finding... in air traffic management by "GAA". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All other members have prescribed "JAR" to accept with certain restrictions and we too have a paradoxical situation that our regulations in certain elements are practically unacceptable in practice. Mostly in case of equipment for maintenance workshops. We could briefly focus on this: we have stricter regulations than regulations in the countries of the European Union, so we are in a situation where we want to be bigger popes than the pope himself. The Croatian People's Party will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86670	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I had to, I feel duty to give some further clarifications and, in particular, to deny some of the allegations here made in the debate of the distinguished Parliament representative Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. It is therefore incorrect that the administration has not received a passing assessment in the visas and auditions that are regular, which are regular every year from different air traffic institutions in Europe. Of course, as in any "audit", as in any "visit", there are certain remarks that are constructive which we accept, and part of which we will base or pass this law to resolve these remarks. That it is thus interpreted is also proven by the fact that Croatia has been admitted to full GIA membership – Joid Aviation Authority. Therefore, the Associations of Civil Aviation Authorities could not have achieved this without being positive in that assessment of the relevant European air traffic institutions. As for how to determine this amendment and supplement the law, I must also deny it has been said that it has not been consulted by the expert public. Just the other way around. The Association of Airports participated actively in the working group for the drafting of this proposal. So, all airports in the Republic of Croatia, representative of the national air operator Croatia airlines, representatives of Croatian air navigation control. So, the three most important elements in air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. Comments related to the Agency with its meaning, with its financing and justification. I can tell you the following about this subject. The agencies will, as necessary, be required in order to increase the administrative capacity of the Republic of Croatia and for the area of air transport. The Department of Air Transport of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which currently operates in 28, 29 people do not have sufficient administrative capacity and cannot, with the salary of a state official, 5, 6 thousand kuna for a specialist, for VSS professional equipment from the industry that has a double, triple-larged average of salaries to receive staff to fill in, that there are hundreds of systematicized jobs. So the way out of the current situation is definitely one of the reasons is and so for the establishment of the agency. The agency is no Croatian innovation. Air transport agencies have many countries of the European Union and by a similar system, on a similar principle we have decided in Croatia professional jobs, arbitration jobs, air personnel certification jobs, operator entrusted to an independent institution that will have both the resources and the capacity and the expertise and, of course, all other preconditions for doing its job in the manner that it must be. In this direction, we are also moving towards the remarks that we have received, and by adopting laws with such solutions, we are in fact solving both part of the remarks and part of the constructive suggestions that we have received in the context of different visas by the European, European Union bodies. After that, the financing of this agency is defined in Article 11h. amending and supplementing the law in which, as far as possible under the law, the precise definitions from which the source of the agency will be financed. The finding that the agency's funding will fall on the back of the industry is, of course, correct. However, there is an alternative to falling on the back of the state budget. So, like all other agencies in other parts of the economy, and this agency is financed from the dominant industry, that this really is an insignificant effort needs to be highlighted by two facts. First, the main source of funding will be part of Croatia's air navigation control revenue, and in order to prove that this is not a burden above all of the Croatian aviation industry, it is necessary to know that Croatia's air navigation control of its revenues around the sixth and something seems to me to be seven hundred million kuna annually in over 90% of the fees for flying over foreign aircraft. Therefore, the burden of financing the agency's work is too high from Croatia's revenues of air navigation control in the largest possible part will be burdened by part of the routine charges paid by over 90% of foreign passersby operators transiting over Croatian territory. On the contrary, rather than being told by this model, the money paid by foreign companies to fly Croatian territory will remain in most parts of the Republic of Croatia and help the Croatian aviation industry have a better service. Other sources of funding are estimated to be able to assess 20, 30 million kunas annually needed for the work of the agency, which in some vision should have 60 people in a permanent working relationship. So, the rest of the income, we estimate that there will be no heavy burden on the industry in which Croatia airlines, for example, has a billion and a half annual income, approximately that much expenditure. Fortunately, last year, positive. Total airports in the Republic of Croatia are slightly less than that amount. So we're just taking the biggest players. We're talking about about three billion kunas that are spinning, and we're talking about maybe about a dozen, fifteen million kunas that they're all going to have to contribute to the agency's work. So these arguments can only say that I cannot accept this interpretation that it will be an unacceptable burden for the Croatian aviation industry. It was also, I think, that it was merely a awkward thing to say that it was understandable, the administration is not abolished or replaced by the agency, but the Air Traffic Administration remains as the body responsible for regulations. But a large part of the professional, or all the professional jobs are transferred to the agency. Here's a thank you. So much at this point, except for another sentence at the end where I must also deny that most Croatian airports operate at the limit of rentability. Just the other way around. For example, Dubrovnik airport, Split airport, Dubrovnik airport, Split airport exclusively from their own incomes finance their own development and all of you who come or go to these infrastructure facilities in traffic testify that these are really representative facilities that are developed thanks to the good business and the solid profits they make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86672	Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would only correct one incorrect allegation, or de facto colleague said it was no Croatian innovation to introduce that agency, that other countries have it. Namely, it is a Croatian innovation because so far these are the jobs, and the same jobs with the same income 90 per cent over the Croatian sky were carried out by the administration. So we've done it so far through the Department of Air Traffic at the Ministry. Thus, the introduction of this agency does not reduce the number of jobs or increase the number of jobs. That's what this group of people have been doing through management so far. The fact that, you mentioned that these three airports are rentable or that they operate at the limit of rentability, yes, but don't forget that they operate at the limit of rentability because of those picks when they have the biggest traffic in the summer months. Only Zagreb Airport has continued rentability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86674	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86675	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is just another contribution that the Croatian government is harmonising all the essential regulations for economic development, in this case for safety and air navigation and that the Croatian Parliament is a dynamic legislative body that quickly resolves. And I am therefore a supporter in this very way of the proposed, urgent procedure, first and second reading, because it is very clear, and we have also discussed on committees how to function and work, and not that individual proposals buy dust in a drawer and never see the end and end of what we need to do, which is exactly the harmonisation of the applicable provisions with the legal acquis of the European Union. And also aligning with other international commitments and practices. It was therefore necessary to implement this all in such a way, in this amendment and in addition to the law. Most importantly, I will point out some of the essential steps ahead, which is that an operational licence is introduced, which is issued to an air carrier that meets the criteria of economic and technical capacity that have a valid licence, and of course what it is and I will put it first, it is precisely this law that determines that flight crew members should not work more than 2,000 hours a year. Flight time is limited to up to 900 hours a year. They have the right to at least four weeks of vacation. 96 days off a year, and 7 days off a month, because at last you should always put the employees first and all those who participate to keep our air navigation safe, both in heaven and on earth. What is particularly good news, which should be potentiated even though the precise deadlines for the establishment of the Civil Aviation Agency are here, so that indeed special bodies outside the ministry can finance the Agency. It is similar to the Agency for Lineway Transportation for the Sea so that they can indeed carry out the tasks set out before that Agency precisely and quickly. On the basis of public authority, the Civil Aviation Agency shall carry out administrative and other tasks relating to air traffic, airports, of particular importance for the safety of air navigation, and in particular continuous surveillance of aircraft operators, licensed aviation personnel and aircraft navigation, as well as overall air traffic control, as well as other tasks. But what we have recently accepted here is that it is important to stress that European regulations will be implemented even better through regulations that apply precisely to this proposed law. But also when we say compliance with the regulations governing the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue as the central authority of the State Administration responsible for protection and rescue, which just every day confirms the reason for its legitimate existence. Of course, the operating licence is a new article, a new article, and it is precisely necessary to determine what the conditions are, where the seat is, where the main activity of ownership, real supervision, financial capacity. And it's very clear in a modern nomotechnical way in this proposal done. Of course, like all the bill proposals that come from the small factory of the Croatian government, especially this portfolio and the proposal, talk about how it is done. And the most important introduction is precisely in terms that accurately determine what certain modern technological achievements apply to. Of course, both emergency assistance and the Civil Aviation Agency say that it is a very large and clear contribution to establishing a framework for the creation of a single European sky. Therefore, this law should also be supported by the national supervisory authority as well as by the deadlines within which the interim director of the Agency is to be appointed, that this is within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, which will be carried out by the temporary director for the start of work of the Agency, and in which way it will be entered into the court register and after the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint the Governing Council of the Agency within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, and within 30 days the Council of the Agency will adopt the statutes of the Agency. Very precise, clear and transparent. So once again we encourage others who need to work on such coordinations, security, any other kind of traffic to work in an air and sacrificial manner to really catch up with the developed world on this law. So I think the law should be passed as soon as possible just as this procedure has been prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86676	Thank you. Parliamentarians of the Islamic Republic of Iran are present at the gallery's meeting, so let's welcome them. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act. This law as a fundamental law governing the area of air traffic contains provisions on air traffic arrangements in the Republic of Croatia, competences and conditions for safe maintenance of air traffic. The Republic of Croatia which has been party to the Convention in international civil aviation since 1992, i.e. Member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation as well as a member of the European Civil Aviation Conference. The air traffic management, which is also part of the Ministry, the sea, tourism, transport and development, is also a full member of the European organisation of joint aviation, which is one of the preconditions for joining the European Union. The Agreement on a common European airspace signed in early 2006 also provides for full harmonisation and harmonisation of Croatian air traffic legislation with the European Union's legislation. This agreement obliged the Republic of Croatia to implement the legislation of the Regulation and of the Directive enriched by the agreement and, according to the stages defined in the agreement itself. The Air Transport Act is in line with a Council Regulation on the licensing of air carriers which defines the right of establishment of air carriers and the issue of an operating licence. Also with the Council Directive on the European Working Time Agreement for Civil Aviation Mobile Employees where the primarily working hours are defined so that, for example, mobile workers are not allowed to work more than 2,000 hours a year, they must not spend more than 900 hours on a flight, the minimum duration of the annual leave of at least four weeks, at least 96 working days a year and at least 7 working days a month shall be specified. It is also in line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the creation of a single European sky, which is done by introducing the concept of an operational licence. At present, the existing situation is such that air traffic management with its capabilities is not entirely possible to assume all obligations under the agreement, in particular obligations that will arise as we join the European Union. This proposal proposes the establishment of the Civil Aviation Agency as a legal person with public authority. The Agency would carry out administrative and other activities relating to air traffic autonomously. For all these reasons, I feel that this bill should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86678	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86679	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. From 9 May 1991 from the first commercial flight of Croatia airlines in independent independent Republic of Croatia to the day of today, 17 years have passed, and this is a sign that Croatia is following the standard in all its visions first of all what the Croatian people deserve and on their way to the European Union. The Air Transport Act as a basic law governing air traffic issues contains provisions on air traffic arrangements in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia and the competences in that area. Since 9 May 92, the Republic of Croatia has been on the basis of the accession of the Parties to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, i.e. a member of an international civil aviation organisation established by the same Convention for the purpose of developing the principle of technology and promoting the development of international air traffic, which is demonstrated every day. However, I will use the proposal of this law, and I will state the basic reasons for the adoption of the Air Transport Act. First, the harmonisation of national air legislation is European legislation, which is a commitment arising from the conclusion of a contract between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia and other countries. According to this Treaty, the aviation sector of the Republic of Croatia is practically fully entering the European Union both in the market and in the regulatory sense, and the legislative provisions are being amended and harmonised with European regulations. First, the licensing of air carriers, the introduction of market relations in the current monopolitical activity of airports, equating the introduction of European standards and working conditions for crew and aircraft members, establishing regulatory and supervisory functions outside the system of flight control providers for Croatian air traffic control. And what we were talking about today is a new novelty, the law establishes an effective air authority of the Republic of Croatia in the form of the Agency for Air Transport, which gives legal provisions the necessary material and business independence and the ability to exercise demanding competences in civil aviation in the hope that the Agency will contribute to what we want every day, that already such good and secure air traffic of the Republic of Croatia will be even better, I will just say a few sentences about the activity of the Agency from which it is visible that it will happen. On the basis of public authority, the Agency shall carry out the tasks laid down by this law as an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia and shall carry out other tasks in accordance with the rules adopted under the laws and statutes of the Agency. The Agency’s activities include air traffic security tasks, the Agency as a national supervisory authority also performs tasks relating to certification of air navigation service providers and professional surveillance of the provision of air navigation services in terms of continued compliance with the conditions. The Agency shall participate in international activities including negotiation processes until the conclusion of international contracts. The Agency shall draw up expert bases for the draft draft rules adopted under this Act, which relate to the Agency’s activities resulting from this Act. The bodies of the agency are the board of agencies and directors and we have seen that for the establishment of the agency the insurance funds were provided, and the proposing itself was further in response to colleague Chichin-Shain's reply in how they were secured, will provide funds for the work of the agency. I support this law in the hope that our air traffic will be as I said at first, good and safe, even better, richer and safer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86680	Thank you. The word has been respected by the Vice President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86681	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, and I understand and support the need to amend and supplement the Law on Air Transport which, among other things, should raise the degree of compliance of this law, i.e. this area of legislation with European Union regulations and European gains. However, I do have one question or rather a finding that is related to a mere explanation and perhaps two. The first question is whether we are adopting the European Union regulation or harmonising with European Union regulations? It is impossible, as on page two, to speak in paragraph 3 of the last sentence, and to take over European regulation, and then in the next paragraph, we speak the correct term to coordinate. So, we're still harmonising, we don't take over all these regulations and then it shouldn't be so prescribed in reason. Why? Those provisions which must be taken ad verbum are individual provisions, are never the text of the whole law and in this respect must be taken into account. Another of my substitutes regarding the argument is that among other things it is said this way, I will quote: "The law is in line with some international commitments and practices." Listen, you can't compare the law to practice, so the law regulates practice. Therefore, it makes no sense, I want to draw attention here to the example of this Law that the arguments would have to correspond to the content of what is proposed to be regulated, arranged etc., etc. Of course, this situation which is related to recommending again on page four that the air traffic management become an administrative and financial independent state institution is well imagined, but you know when you take that same agency that you're talking about here and about how you finance, related to budgetary resources and related to administrative supervision, etc. then it is not completely independent and in this respect it should be accepted, it is actually independent in its work, and it is dependent not only on the implementation of the law, etc., but also on the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so if you want first and foremost as the owner and founder of the same agency. Now allow a few remarks concerning the matter of the law. I'll go from those who might be a little bit more serious. It is first said in Article 11d concerning Article 6 that the statutes and other general acts of the Agency will address the issue of significant activities of the organisation and work of the Agency. On the other hand, Article 11c rightly states that the activity of this agency is an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia. I would like to quote Article 2(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states by law, determines the way in which... of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used, exploited by the rightholders and owners, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these issues cannot be settled in the statutes, this must be a question of the jurisdiction of this Law and must be regulated by law and in this respect should be further asked. Not just for oral formalities, but for other things. The second question or second point of view is related to Article 11f and to Article 11g. It is said, among other things, that the agency's council is doing the following tasks, and that a contract is being opened for the selection of directors and appoints and resolves directors, etc. Look, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's very difficult to carry out a formal legal situation for someone to appoint from an open competition. So please, the assumption is that more people will come to the tender, and if you have more people than you have, all of whom meet the minimum requirements, you have the right to choose between them to get the best, or the one who best meets the conditions, but then you choose, then you do not appoint the directors and in that segment the first remark that stands. The second observation is related to the situation, which the Director of the Agency must fulfil under the law. We have prescribed the conditions that the members of the Agency must meet under the law and that at the same time we have completely disregarded that it should be for the Director, because he is the Agency's body, as it says in this Bill proposal, to prescribe a minimum of legal conditions, or mandatory legal conditions, and of course those additional specific conditions can be prescribed by any law. Third remark. You know, it's impossible for you to have a deputy director who will be able to replace at the same time in the event of his absence and prevention, so to do the jobs as if he were a director, and at the same time, at the same time, when it comes to providing the same treatment as the election and appointments, or by my choice, not appointments as the director. For the sake of this example, you are asking the director for the consent he has to give with the agreement of the minister, but then the question arises whether it is the autonomous jurisdiction of the council at all, I do not think it is necessary for the minister to agree at all. This is where the ministry, i.e. the minister, needs to determine, gives consent to whether they are fulfilled by the law prescribed by him. That's right, and the consent itself. So what's the choice, if it's done by the council and if the council is ultimately composed of this criterion, which it gives, and ultimately, the Government appoints that council itself. Therefore, it is not necessary, but if consent is given to the Director, then it must also be given to the Deputy because it is actually in the same situation. It follows, of course, several other remarks such as Article 11a where it is said, among other things, that the fees paid by aircraft operators are paid by all passengers, etc. You know, gentlemen, you've introduced a paratax, through the quasi price of services, from the transport of passengers, through the transport of goods, you've additionally introduced a special fee to finance the work of the agency. This agency simultaneously carries out activities of interest to the Republic of Croatia and we need to talk about something else, that from the price of the total services or the resulting profits are secured for the financing of the Agency's work, it is all right, we can talk about it, but we cannot go with the fact that in this way it prescribes tax, paratax practically on such services, at these prices, because it significantly increases on the one hand the price of services, and on the other hand it leads to an unequal position of those entities in relation to the European market. Of course, the other issue is being opened here, and it is related to Article 11a, paragraph 6, where it is said that the legal position of the employees of the agencies etc., etc. The work-related pay is subject to general labour regulations. Now, look, on the one hand, general rules apply to work if this Law is not solved differently, and this Law solves only something that is related to the agreement on the length of work, etc. and days off. Now the question is actually raised, and at the same time you have an institution to which this Law applies, and in addition if it is not regulated by this Law, the Law on Institutions. I don't mind writing labour laws here, applying labour regulations, however, that part had to be particularly precise. I am particularly concerned with paragraph 5, where it is said against the Agency's administrative acts that no appeal is allowed. I would like to remind the gentlemen that in our Constitution, Article 18 provides that a complaint is to be brought right in front of bodies, etc. and that the appeal procedure must be ensured. An appeal must be granted, but it must be settled immediately before the Administrative Court. But, gentlemen, we're basically all that exception we started turning into a rule. And, as a rule, there is no second-degree procedure in the administrative procedure anymore. And in a situation like this, there's actually something going on that's amazing. Relatively, you have a quick resolution in the administrative procedure. But then yes, a bunch of terrible cases in the Administrative Court. And then the time to solve this case or such a case, of course very, very long, which has taken place, among other things, in the Strasbourg court, which actually punishes the Republic of Croatia because you must not forget that it is no longer, time is not counted as the time limit that lies in the court, but from the beginning of the settlement in the administrative procedure until the end of the settlement of the administrative dispute. Therefore, I think that this should be resolved and the possibility of these issues being resolved faster and better, not only because of the interests of those who have been wronged but also because of the interests of those who are ultimately important to the functioning of our legal system as soon as possible, i.e. that the Republic of Croatia is not called for because of these things and international bodies. In Article 12, where Article 22 is amended, I must warn that it is somewhat unusual for me, given the equality of everyone under our Constitution, without speaking by international conventions, to the provisions in paragraph 2, that in the supervisory committees and administrations of society that are registered with us must be at least 2/3 members of the order of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So listen, if they have a work permit and they meet all the requirements of language, profession and knowledge, then it does not have to be in this respect such a restriction, but it should be a restriction that they must comply with the internal rules relating to the employment and work of professional bodies and supervisory authorities of this. Here, about one half I've been able to pronounce in this short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86682	Thank you. This concludes the session's morning work. Continuation is at 15.00 hours. It is the agenda number 5, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86683	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Vote? The result? With 87 for and 3 abstentions passed the proposed law. I am voting on the conclusion of the Legislative Committee. A professional service shall be authorised to perform a text editorial before its publication in the National Journal. Please vote. The result? Eighty-six for it. Two abstentions. It's a conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, first reading, P.Z. No. 657 Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, internal policy and national security. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, during the fifth year of the application of the Defence Act, and given the new security concept and the very high degree of realisation of Croatian integration ambitions of accession to the European Union and NATO, some of the legal solutions have been shown to work out, i.e. to amend for the sake of regulatory support for the further reform of the Croatian defence system. The proposal for a defence law provides for more detailed arrangements for the new basic concepts and documents in the defence system, a way of making decisions on the maintenance of military exercises in the country and abroad is set up by the Defence Council as a coordinating body, introducing the possibility of non-inviting recruits to serve the military deadline as well as the release of certain categories of police officers and priests and other religious officials in the obligation to serve the military deadline. In addition, more flexible arrangements are made for recruits staying abroad and the contract reserve institute is introduced. In order to raise the overall defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia in the process of approaching Euro-Atlantic integration, the need for the participation of Croatian Armed Forces troops in international military exercises with NATO Armed Forces units and member states of the Partnership for Peace is growing. By participating in these activities, Croatian Armed Forces strengthen their own capabilities and reach the necessary level of interoperability with the Armed Forces of other countries. With NATO summit in Riga in November 2006, the Republic of Croatia received a clear timeframe for future NATO membership for the first time. The Allies welcomed the progress of the Republic of Croatia in raising defence capabilities and strengthening the defence system. In particular, NATO's PfP contribution to operations and efforts to promote regional co-operation has been welcomed. NATO allies also stressed on the Council, the 2008 summit intends to send invitations to those countries that meet membership standards and are able to contribute to Euro-Atlantic stability and security. With regard to the Republic of Croatia, significant progress has been welcomed at the summit in the implementation of political, economic, defence reforms and the rule of law. This proposal for the law regulates the way decisions are taken to maintain joint military exercises by members of the Croatian Armed Forces and the Armed Forces of Other States in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. abroad, which are within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the proposed amendments to the Law on Defence are more clearly prescribed to decide on the implementation of international military exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to participate in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international military exercises outside the Republic of Croatia, namely that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides to maintain international military exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in which the Armed Forces of States are involved within the framework of international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or has access on the basis of international contracts and their entry into the Republic of Croatia. On the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international military exercises outside the Republic of Croatia which are part of the Armed Forces of the States which have joined or joined the Republic of Croatia under international defence organisations on the basis of international contracts and on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the provision of humanitarian aid outside the Republic of Croatia and on the entry of the Armed Forces of other countries into the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the provision of humanitarian aid. This law proposes the establishment and composition of the Defence Council as a particularly co-ordinated body at the highest level whose task will be to examine all fundamental documents in the area of defence, then to monitor the implementation of defence system reform and to consider other important issues in the area of defence. As the biggest change compared to the situation so far, I would like to highlight the fact that the bill provides for the possibility that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, may, on the basis of the defence needs and interests of the Republic of Croatia, decide that the money is not called for to serve the military term. The proposal for a decision shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Defence with the participation of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces on the basis of an assessment of the security situation and the needs of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed solution is based on a strategic review of the defence and long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia adopted by this House in July of last year. In these strategic and development documents, the Republic of Croatia has declared itself professionalising the Armed Forces and in line with the team to train a small number of highly motivated professional staff who will be able to respond best to future security challenges. On the other hand, in order to ensure the continued training of the appropriate number of Croatian citizens for military defence, it is proposed to prescribe opportunities and voluntary military service. It is important to stress that the decision not to call the recruits on military service does not end the military obligation or the obligation to serve as a legal category. The regulation of the military service obligation remains one of the conditions for entry into the military service. Voluntary military service is particularly important, and it also enables women to gain basic military knowledge and skills, i.e. an equal competition for admission into the active composition of the Croatian Armed Forces. In the event of a situation of immediate threat or war on non-inviting recruits to military service, it will not apply. When the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the non-inviting of recruits is in force, and the authorities of the state authorities are prevented from exercising their duties regularly, the President of the Republic of Croatia will be able to make a decision at the proposal of the Prime Minister and with his co-signature that the money is called for to serve the military term. Such a decision shall be made by the President of the Republic at the confirmation of the Croatian Parliament as soon as the body can meet. After the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the non-inviting of recruits on the obligation to serve the military deadline, all the money will no longer be called for health and other checks and psychological examinations, which will also result in significant savings in the defence budget. The money that is not called for to serve the military term, until the completion of 30 years of life, will be kept in reserve and subject to the obligation to serve in the reserve. Until the proposed decision of the Croatian Parliament on non-inviting recruits to military service, there is a need for a more flexible approach to certain categories of military taxpayers. Therefore, this law further suggests that military service obligations be released from the service of the military service by a police officer who has applied for the release from the obligation to serve the military period, and has previously worked for at least 12 months on the work of a police officer as well as priests and other persons of the same status in recognised religious communities in the Republic of Croatia under a special law. In connection with the legal obligations of recruits and reserves staying abroad, it is proposed to simplify existing administrative procedures. New legal solutions allow for a more flexible approach in connection with their application to military records, military service and translation into reserve. This approach to military bonds staying abroad is proposed in view of the fact that the Republic of Croatia is in the process of accessing the European Union in which freedom of movement is one of the fundamental principles, and the fact that more and more young people are taking part in their education abroad. Thus, it is proposed that the recruit who has been abroad from birth or who has gone abroad before the start of the recruiting obligation will not call for military service, that the said recruit may apply himself to military service through a diplomatic mission and consular office, and that in the event of his return to the Republic of Croatia by the end of the calendar year in which he is due to apply for the execution of a military obligation to the competent Defence Office by 30 years. As an additional source of expert staff for the implementation of new missions and tasks of the Croatian Armed Forces, the introduction of contract reserve institutes is envisaged. It is prescribed that the reserve may have other additional rights and obligations related to the service of the reserve of the Armed Forces under the contract of the contractual reserve. The status of the contractual reserve shall be obtained by the conclusion of a contractual reserve contract. The holders who sign the contract of service for the contractual reserve will be adequately trained and can be admitted to the service under special conditions. Dear ladies and gentlemen, through the adoption of these proposed amendments and the addition of the Defence Act, we will support the reform of the defence system and the Croatian defence system will raise a significant level of adopted defence capabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86686	Thank you. Before we move on to the committee's report, Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic, we congratulate you on our birthday. That's it. The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. [[Applause.]] The Honorable Chairman of the Committee, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86687	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 94th session on 28 March 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. In his opening statement, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed legislative proposal was more detailed in the responsibility of the decision-making system, the maintenance of international military exercises in the Republic of Croatia and the participation of Croatian Armed Forces troops in other international military exercises. Furthermore, he pointed out that the law in question provides for the possibility that the Croatian Parliament, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, decide that the money should not be called for compulsory military service and the possibility of voluntary military service in accordance with the law on voluntary military service. The Committee supported the President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia's position by assessing that this legislative proposal gives full support to further reform of the defence system, so the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act is hereby adopted as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86688	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. He has and the immigration committee has discussed it. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86689	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act which is another step in enabling major reform procedures passed by our Ministry of Defence and our Armed Forces, and all in the context of the highly modified circumstances in which the modern defences of most countries are today compared to what we had when the need for defence was the first and basic task in the country. Our defence faces the great challenges of changes taking place in the frameworks, and in this sense I also see this law, in the context of new circumstances both regional and global. In fact, our defence has been conducting major reform procedures for years to adapt to new international integrations, to adapt to obligations towards international organisations, to participate in international exercises, international security actions and all that we are bound by signed international agreements and contracts. I also stress the reorganisation of the defence in the context of the changed political and security developments in our region, and this was very well assessed in the annual report that we recently had at the debate in the Parliament. Also, in this law I see one step forward towards the transition to the professional army, in a different way of making reservations, in a different way of recruiting etc. In fact, it should be pointed out that in the transition to professional military service, it is a definition of most countries. At this point, they have no mandatory military service. In Europe, 13 countries and 4 move on to that system. So the vast majority of countries have already adapted to such a new, modern and more economic way of functioning of the country's defence. In this law, I see two goals. One is to facilitate major reforms that still follow, which are ongoing and ongoing, and also to avoid some unpleasant and often difficult problems that occur when the military is moving in this new way of its structure. That is why I would like to highlight several articles and some data that are very high-quality in the proposal for a law that is before us and which should surely be accepted, because they represent a significant step in future reorganisation steps of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I would mention in Article 2 which sets out a new strategic document to be adopted annually that is a strategic defence review. This is a document assessing the state of defence, setting out the needs for certain changes, identifying the needs for adjustments, thus defining the corrections in the system annually. And I believe it will become one of the most important documents that will actually be complemented by the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia. This document, based on perceived negativity or irregularities, will be able to determine the strategic future of our defense. I would also point out Articles 3 and 4 which regulate the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international obligations. There are two solutions. One thing is when it comes to countries that are signatories of the same international associations in which Croatia is located, that is NATO, those are the pacts in which Croatia will be found as NATO or as it is a Partnership for Peace. It also simplifies the approach to joint actions, joint exercises, joint peaceful actions in a way that simplifies the decision-making procedure for this participation and is in the jurisdiction of the documents taken by the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the entire proposal is drawn up by the Ministry of Defence with the participation of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces. So one complex approach is possible but very simple and effective. Of course, if it is countries that are outside the signed contracts, outside the associations to which we approach or where we are then the right to approve and vote the participation of the Armed Forces outside the borders or other non-members of the signed institutions in Croatia brings the Croatian Parliament. This is of course important for the fulfillment of the international agreements and for the faster adaptation of NATO's programme to which we are seeking for known reasons. Article 7 contains a new quality step, i.e. the establishment of a Defence Council. In our defense system, there are a whole series of entities that have more or less powers in decision-making, of course, it is primarily the President of the Republic as Chief Commander, then the role of the Government, the Ministry of Defence, but also others, the Ministry of Interior, Foreign Affairs, the Police, and then Finance, etc. The Council actually allows the coordination of all these bodies, all of these activities, and it is, in fact, the first time that one body without which is not imagined by such a complex structure of governance and command without such a firmly-founded body. Therefore, the tasks of this Defence Council are to examine and bring them into line with the needs, monitor system reform and analyse the work of the state administration body and local defence administrations. By the composition of the proposed composition of this Defence Council, we see that indeed the body is comprehensive because there is, of course, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, then the members of the Office of the President of the Republic, above all, the head of the Office of the President, the Defence Advisor, the National Security Advisor, the Head of the Military Office. And of course there's the Ministry of Finance and Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces. This operational body shall be convened with the agreement of the President of the State and of the Prime Minister. It is also common to propose items of the agenda and call on members of the outside. So absolutely one consistent organization meets the challenges that follow in the years ahead. The most important point of this law is, in fact, Article 11, which sets out in a specific way the question of serving a military term for recruits. This is a very sensitive issue because we are in a transitional period when the mandatory service of the military is gradually abolished and moves on to the professional army, it is the most sensitive period in this re-shuffle and it has been resolved here in a very high-quality manner which the Minister of Defence has now described, and it consists of the fact that the President of the State as Supreme Commander is making such a decision but the Government is also taking part in it, of course, from the Ministry of Defence, from the basic documents and decisions of the Chief Sanitary Staff of the Armed Forces, so again he sees a comprehensive problem and makes a decision to suspend the mandatory service of the military. Why does it matter? Because it can be re-activated in the event of a direct threat, and it can be activated by the president himself, the commander-in-chief without the Parliament, if there are such circumstances on the scene that the Parliament cannot sit. Of course, at the first possible session of the Parliament, he makes such a decision for confirmation. So it's a very operational and flexible system that's much more quality than the one that was once proposed, and that's to suddenly end military service and not foresee such exceptions. And despite such a quality solution, there will be a significant reduction in reserves. According to the Department of Defence estimates, the reserve of 750-odd thousand people in 2007. In 2015 it will fall to 500 and some thousands, I mean 530 thousand, and in 2025 it will fall to 315 thousand. So the number of reserves will fall about a rate roughly roughly roughly roughly roughly roughly 25 grand a year. This is, of course, something to keep in mind and what should be substituted by the introduction of exercises and education for these reserves, and more intensively and intensively as their number declines, as it is certain that, with the active composition, the exercise of the reserve composition will be another important element for the defence of the country. And I also see there in fact the only lack of this document that is before us, because I don't see that there's a reason for this kind of compulsory exercise and a reservation education, which would be very important in moments of reduction of its number, I would say perhaps decisively. In these transitional times, however, it is determined that military service, but voluntary, will be maintained, and estimated to be about 2,000 such handbooks per year, which is enough to fill the reserve and to carry out the peacetime tasks of the Armed Forces, which fall under the reserve's burden. It's very likely that this will be enough in time. But I repeat again on the condition that quality exercises and the education of the reserve composition are introduced. The document that is before us has been very good at solving the human problems of such a transitional period. The biggest problem in the phase of reducing the number of armed forces is how to send those who are excess and how to attract young people more quality, which is more quality fit. Here are various stimulating measures to attract young people, to attract quality staff, and there are also measures to take care of those who, before taking up their regular retirement, have to move to civil service, so a whole series of obligations that the Ministry of Defence will carry out and thus make such a transition more painless. What should be mentioned here in the proposed amendments to the law, these are also certain changes in the mandatory reserve. In fact, non-military citizens can also enter the mandatory reserve, and the stimulation to increase reserve requirements are benefits that come from that title. I think it's a very good law that will bridge such a reduction in the handbook, we need to know that the number of requests for civil service until last year has increased to exactly the geometric rate, so somewhere since the introduction of the Civil Service institution from 600 requests per year, it has come to 10, over 10,000 requests a year, which has also accelerated the actual reconstruction of our forces even though we were afraid at first, it has now turned out to have contributed to this one transitional period, more or less unplanned because we didn't know that the number of requests for civil service would increase at such a high rate. In other words, with 668 requests in 2000, we arrived in 2005 at 10 thousand 184 such requests. Another element is the reduction of the manual composition which is not quite clear to me, which is that out of the total surveyed recruits, even 40% have been declared incompetent permanently or temporarily. So, only 60% of these young people are capable of serving a military deadline which I find unusually small, or unusually many incompetent, so I simply ask whether it's a real picture or if there's a little money in the cloudy water and maybe some solutions about incompetence or temporary incompetence that doesn't correspond to the right condition, because it's really amazing to me that 40% of young people can't meet those criteria. In any case, however, this has also contributed to the accelerated dynamics of the transition from compulsory to voluntary military service and thus directed organisational processes. Finally, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which is ahead of us, has a number of quality solutions at a very sensitive moment in the transformation of our armed forces at a very sensitive moment of reconstruction and the Ministry of Defence itself, and I think it will mean a quality step further closer to the NATO strategies and doctrines that we seek and what is most important with less money to enable a more effective defence system. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86690	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86691	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. The point of this Law is in the following, in what is stated here on page number one, that the proposal for a law regulates the way of making decisions, maintaining military exercises in the country and abroad setting up a Defence Council, prescribes a way to appoint a chief defence inspector, introduces the possibility of non-inviting recruits to military service. This applies to you upstairs, not girls but boys, as well as the release of certain categories of police officers and priests and other religious officials, religious communities in the Republic of Croatia, etc. The proposal to supplement the law provides for the possibility that the Croatian Parliament, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, may, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, decide not to call for mandatory military service. I'm absolutely in favour of, under quotes "ukin" serving a military deadline. Today, it simply makes no sense for more than 50% of young people in the Republic of Croatia to serve a civil military deadline. The truth is, no one could have imagined that they would be out there in '91, '92. when the response to the military was 100% that today's response will decrease to below 50%. When I look at these guys at various receptions of certain cities, municipalities, courts, how they're charged with strength, energy and so on, they're wasting their time, you're left with nothing else to raise your hand for the possibility of, under quotes of "ukin" military service. This just doesn't make sense anymore. Let the boys leave home, and whoever wants to join the army clearly join the army. Croatia needs a small army, well-trained professionals. The truth is also needed by Croatia by NATO. We can be against everything, but we must also admit that without NATO, there is no European Union either. Of course, joining NATO is also not up to us, but depends primarily on the members of the major NATO forces, that is the point. We understandably, it is sometimes a good high opinion of ourselves, but Croatia is small and de facto dependent on foreign economies. Perhaps it is best assessed and should be mentioned on this day when we have not won the European Championship, so perhaps it is best assessed by Mr Vlatko Markovic, the president of the football alliance who said if we lose to Italy it is possible to understand it, but if we lose to Ukraine and Poland that we are poor. That's literally what Vlatko Markovic said. But we may be poor, but we are also small, us and Hungary 14 million, Ukrainians and Poles 90 million and it is clear that and that moment as such played its place in making this decision. And that's what I'm trying to say, I'm not afraid of any more conflict in the neighborhood with the neighbors, but I'm afraid of something else. So that, for example, big ones can re-incitate a conflict in these areas. The true war of '91. It began primarily thanks to the madness that took place in JNA and Slobodan Milosevic's head, but I still don't forget the moment when Baker, former US Foreign Minister of the United States flew from Berlin to Belgrade and de facto suggested that Markovic forcefully establish control over the Slovenian border or border crossings, and then in fact, in the 5th or 6th month, it all began. I dare say that the best Croatian defence policy is the policies of the good neighbourhood, i.e. that the best Croatian defence policy is a good foreign policy. Why NATO? Why the European Union? Because all the countries that have entered the European Union today are doing better than they did before. True, more is done but the rules are far clearer than they were before. Finally, when you see the arsenal of our weapons, that the Navy de facto can't sail out of our ports, that our tanks are on average over 40 years old, that the missile system of the anti-aircraft defense doesn't work de facto over 2,000 or 3,000 meters, that the planes should be aimed at the rods, that the planes are at the edge of the operation, that the radar system of "MORE" that we got back in '99. the year de facto does not work except one such unit, then it is clear to everyone that Croatia does not have the means to afford the luxury of a modern defence force. And that's the point. And clearly everything costs and Croatia has no money at this time even though it would understandably want everything. Both the modern army and the European championship, and the handball world championship that we want to believe will ultimately be held in Croatia, etc. How do I look at NATO and the European Union when I mention this football? It's like asking a Croatian club if they want to play in the Champions League. Of course they'd say they're in. They know that when they come out of Croatia they will have to run more, that the results will also be modest when it comes to our football clubs. But they also know that their stadiums will be full and that they will be better financially. And that's actually the point. Clearly when I'm talking about defence policy, when we talk about defence policy in 2007, then it's time to put an emphasis on it, I would repeat it once more on good neighbourly policy. Once again, Croatia's best defence policy is a good foreign policy. As far as the law itself is concerned, he said for me, it's not controversial. I quoted these opening statements of the Minister on page one, that the bill detailed the way in which the decision on the maintenance of military exercises in the country and abroad, the establishment of the Defence Council, introduces the possibility of non-inviting recruits to military service, etc. I personally think this last non-inviting recruits should have happened because I repeat this practice in Croatia at the moment, it doesn't make sense. The army needs to be reduced to a small operational army that will number some 16 thousand soldiers. We don't need more than that. And for me, NATO is not the problem but rather the problem of a long-lost mission such as one Afghanistan from which, in my court, Croatia should consider withdrawing its forces. I am saying this all in the context of Article 3(1), point 1 of this Article, the concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia's forces to partner countries, the plan to offer infrastructure facilities to other countries' armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, etc. What does it mean, as the law says here, to offer infrastructure to the armed forces of third countries? I'm guessing they're not NATO bases. The truth of NATO also does not need bases on Croatia's soil. If they are interested in anything then they are clearly interested in Bulgaria, they are interested in Romania, tomorrow Ukraine if the clearly political picture does not change there. And finally, why would someone move for example? Avignano from Italy to Croatia, in Pula, when they have two minutes of flight from Avignan to Pula. They don't care about that, but Bulgaria, Romania does. As few armies as possible in Croatia. I would dare even say that Croatia is safer as a country. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We should also, just In Article 6, they shall decide on the exit or operation of armed forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, except in cases of exit or exercise within the framework of international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or accessed on the basis of international contracts and in order to provide humanitarian aid. I'd like to ask you to open another debate about Afghanistan first. Maybe we'll do that tonight. Iraq is leaving almost all its strength from Spain and Italy. Here, now they're leaving Iraq and the English. The conflict will move to Afghanistan which NATO does not control or control at the moment no more than 30% of the country. There'll be blood, and I'm afraid of it. However, when we talk about Article 4. What does he mean exactly? That this future House will not decide to send armed forces to individual military exercises as was the usual boredom if Croatia does not know, a member of these specific associations. In particular, it will be dangerous for gentlemen after 2008 when Croatia should become a member of the NATO Pact. I myself fear, I fear, that by will of the executive authority de facto, we could usurp the constitutional provisions of this House, that it autonomously decides to send armed forces beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, which should be prevented. Article 10 may also need to be quoted as saying that the Chief Defence Inspector is now appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Defence Minister. Shouldn't the Chief Inspector be appointed by the President of the Republic of Croatia? Or perhaps, along with this law goes some new proposal of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the president should be "dealed" from the command or command of the armed forces. Maybe it's something else in the world. The Croatian president may "have great powers", but this is how it is managed in some way, although I suppose the bill has also been discussed with people from the Office of the President of the Republic. These two provisions, meaning where the President would no longer appoint the Chief Inspector and where, past the de facto of the Parliament, the decision to send armed forces outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia is something to raise the voice for this speaker. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 39a, on the side, page 6, also states that the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, may, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander, decide that the money is not called for to serve the military term. This should be done in my opinion immediately, no later than early 2008. Article 18, which has a military schedule, I quote, and goes abroad for more than 90 days, is obliged to report a stay abroad to the defence responsible office that keeps it on the military record. The rest is clearly not controversial. These two articles are controversial, with an emphasis on sending troops out of the country, i.e. this Article 10, which speaks of a military inspectorate. Article 25 speaks for which all the rules of this House de facto allow or authorises the Minister of Defence from the one concerning the voluntary service of a military term through the rules on conditions and criteria for selection and the rights and duties of those contractual reservers, so as not to list them all which are of great importance and importance. All in all, the law in the part where people would be freed from sending to the military or serving in the military is desirable but is not desirable in these two other elements and as such it is good to go to another reading so that perhaps in consultation with the home, ministry and home, this home or the president could avoid any unnecessary controversy and too much power tomorrow in people who will be able to lead this country through the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86692	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86693	Maybe here's a little correction. Says a colleague of our Caine boys will no longer go army, boys so he said thinking of men. The real truth is, first of all, it won't have to, but it's equally important or even more important that women can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86694	The club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86695	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law which clearly regulates matter that has long been mature for regulation, so it seems to me to him today, too, because it is a matter that has been subjective to a subject that has long since been absorbed in some way not only in Croatia but also in Europe, and then such an important issue as the abolition of compulsory military service is so casually experienced in the Croatian Parliament which is of course good, but I think that by making this decision only today, or these days, we have failed to do much earlier, we have lost a lot of energy because of it, a lot of money, a lot of work days and it was not really almost necessary, it was already visible five years ago. If there are any reasons not to abolish mandatory military service they exist right now. Right now, some processes are happening in our neighborhood, and even war is mentioned as the possibility of solving these processes. So, if these arguments once existed, and I don't think they've ever existed in the last few years, and the processes that started here can't be stopped by some party's policy, so it was also the radical party of any country. So if they didn't exist then they certainly don't exist today. But if they existed then they're stronger today than they were a few years ago. The Croatian People's Party MPs club of course supports this bill. He believes that he is not only in the trend that is happening in the world but that he is completely isolated from anything that is happening in the world and in Europe contributes to the strength of our defence power, to allow reduced budget resources to be made, by the logic of things less than they were in years of war or after war, to spend these funds more rationally and to ultimately have what everyone is saying and in fact very difficult to come up with, and these are small well-equipped, well-trained armed forces that then mean actually total combat preparedness and defence capacity of the country increased and not diminished even if the total forces are weakened, so in fact, the budget as it has happened in recent years. That is why we support this proposal but I would still like to point out that the defence minister would be okay with this formal position making the proposal neat. In fact, in the light of this proposal and the text and provisions of the applicable law, every other page is missing, so if you try to read some of the provisions of the laws that change and compare with what was before, you won't be able to because these articles of the law here are not available. Wrongly, it's faxed or complicated here, I don't know whose fault it is, but that formal part, that formal dimension of the bill must always be respected, and even when it comes to such understandable legal proposals as this one. Before I say anything else about the most important subject of this law, I would like to warn the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces that adoption or inclusion as an important document of the strategic defence review, which we also welcome should be tried to determine what is actually the relationship between all these documents that we will now have in the area of defence. We have a defence strategy as the highest document, a national security strategy beyond that, but it regulates a wider area than the area of defense. We have a strategic defence review, we have a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces, we have an annual report on the readiness of the defence system and on the conduct of the overall staff policy, etc. The question arises how we will ask relations between these documents so that all these documents contribute to the overall normative arrangement of relations within the armed system of the Republic of Croatia. So the question arises whether the strategic defence review will be the lowest document, whether it will be available to the Croatian Assembly and in what dynamics. If so, if we are to consider each year, for example here in the Croatian Parliament a strategic defence review then there is no need to have an annual report on the situation in the armed forces etc. as this document is already called. Therefore, in the next few months after the adoption of this law, the Ministry of Defence should try to establish a clear relationship between these five documents or obligations that exist towards the Croatian Parliament so that each of these documents is as readable as possible, their relationship as clear as possible, and that Parliament's relationship with these documents means that the evaluation of these documents should be so that it is very easy for Parliament to monitor what is happening in these documents, what is happening to the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia? Now, of course, back to this most important question, it's a question of abolishing mandatory military service. It's not called abolishing here, but nowhere in the world there's an elimination as something that is, which is irrevocable. There is no country in the world that has irrevocably abolished the mandatory military service. Such a commitment to the homeland, it is not possible to lift the country’s defence even if it is called the abolition of compulsory military service. And we're always afraid it's something very dangerous and then it's about freezing, suspension and so on. You can figure it out any way you want. Colloquial is the abolition of mandatory military service. And of course, the Croatian Parliament and the highest bodies of this country have the opportunity whenever they want to restore that highest obligation of defence to life. So that around these more politically-forged differences of termological terms, we don't spend too many words on suspension, suspension or freezing. It's used in our language as an end to compulsory military service and I'll call it that. Of course, here with these questions being asked why it wasn't done before, and the question is, did we now fully define this model at this time? I'd like to ask you a few questions here. It is said here that nothing is said or said which means that the provisions of the existing law remain. That it would be mandatory, that this voluntary service would be for six months. And then it is possible that handbooks, after this basic training, have special courses or training for an active soldier or training for an officer of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. The question is, is that a logical and good provision? It seems to me that all those who enter as volunteers in the armed forces from the very beginning because of the high demands imposed on the modern soldier should serve some longer period of nine months. But of course they should be particularly stimulated. The question arises: Do you volunteer to serve your military time? No stimulation, no financial or otherwise. Another would be the stimulation of almost likely, certain signing of a contract with the Ministry of Defence after the end of that, that military deadline would be a significant stimulation then, in my opinion, that military deadline could be extended to nine months so that all soldiers would be stimulated by increased demands on the active soldier in modern times. That's what they're financially stimulated for, if necessary. This would not be too much of a burden on the budget of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Defence. And then most of them would almost understandably sign professional contracts with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. This would mean that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia should decide how many of these young men, the handbook will serve a military term every year? What will happen if the Department of Defense happens to register 4 thousand or 5 thousand voluntary handguns and the real needs of the armed forces at that time are not 4000 but for the restoration of military personnel are, say, 1,000 people. Does it make sense that those 3,000 extra volunteers, who are overnumbered, are serving a military term? This should be a reason for increased criteria and for improving the psychophysical characteristics of those who will serve the military deadline, and the state points to the military service of as many soldiers as it needs. It is a clean loss of energy regardless of their expressed will to serve the military period if it is not necessary at that time of politics or policy at the Ministry of Defence. It's a question that opens up here and I'd like to ask the Ministry of Defense during these periods that will pass between the two readings of this law a little think and try to at least answer those dilemmas that I've put here. The second question is also not regulated here and it might be logical to regulate it in the law how many years in these new circumstances should the Croatian soldier have the most? We know that our Croatian army is of a very high age. In modern hyper-professional armies, a professional soldier is usually not more than 30 years old. It's the oldest soldier. And we had a situation in Croatia that the average age of our soldiers was 33, 34, 35. Of course someone 35 years old or over if that average can't be a proper professional soldier. If someone spent the contracts with the defence departments, I don't know for 5, 6 or 7 years and until then he didn't become an officer or an officer, he must leave the military service. He can't be a soldier when he's 35 or 40 because then it's his only profession and at 40 years old as a professional soldier, not an officer, and not an officer, he's absolutely inoperable. He no longer has the opportunity to start a new career and it's one situation that can actually lead to an endless situation. The solution is, of course, early retirement again and so on that it will burden the state budget again in the long term. That's what you should think about. So you should limit what is the highest age of a professional soldier. And if someone who joined a professional army when he was 20, up to 28 or 29 years old for his loss of ambition or for some other reason did not become an officer or officer of the armed forces, he should no longer be a professional soldier. It's the way armies are arranged in most modern countries. So here's to repeating the fundamental, fundamental objection that this law comes too late, that in the meantime we've lost a lot of energy, a lot of working days of people who could study, work, pay taxes to this country, and they went into the military and they didn't want it, I'm talking about them. So either of course they were in this civil service which was also in some way a kind of cartoon because often these obligations to the homeland were not... In the right way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, with that in mind that he is very late with this law, the club of HNS representatives will support and support the fundamental intensity of the law of course. But we'd like to get these questions that we asked until the second reading if we don't change the text of the law that at least exceeded the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86696	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86697	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Thereafter, after five years of applying the Law on Defence, the Government considers that the time has come for it to be fixed, harmonised or adapted to the needs created as a result of new circumstances or simply to try the current situation or current perceptions that exist in this society in some way to reconcile these amendments and the additions to this bill. In fact, at the very beginning, I would try to say that sometimes the position of those who initially say that they and their parties are for the European Union, so they are for NATO, and then state one 10 valid arguments that should be withdrawn from one and another association immediately. So it is very difficult to understand what is meant by this, which means if there was a consensus or if there is a consensus today on those issues concerning participation in military exercises or military actions or in peacekeeping missions under the auspices of the United Nations, and if there is a consensus here, then it is a bit odd that Croatia is also trying to create a parallel with those missions in which Croatia does not participate, which are not under the auspices of the United Nations, that it should withdraw the parallel, and that is why Croatia no longer needs to participate in Afghanistan, because it is there, and it is exactly something worse than it was. Does that mean credibility? Of course, this is not the attitude of the majority, but I don't think it's good for the credibility of policy to deal with such facts. Namely, states, contracts, and even certain political views are very serious. People can't get on with it today they are, tomorrow they're not and people can't talk today, and tomorrow they can't talk about serious things. Participation in peacekeeping missions is very serious. What messages are made to the strength or implementation of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Defence precisely in the context of this kind of viewing, because by crossing or passing these amendments and the addition is evident in Croatia there will no longer be a voluntary service of the military term. It will be fully, the army will be professionalized, and the part that is recruited through call it those who want it out of their will and without compensation I don't think we should be dishonest now and say that there will be so many that we won't be able to feed them. I'd like to have them. Personally, I'd like to have them. Personally, I would also like to see this process run in another direction than it did. However, the facts today say that the perceptions of the public of our citizens say they support the abolition of the military deadline and professionalisation. However, do we know exactly how and whether we can give an answer at this point, whether in the current conditions of this security in our region, whether in the challenges that exist, whether we can respond within the professional army and in what way we will actually do so. A reserve that can always be activated means that it will not be suspended and that the mechanisms for creating this one reserve team that may be prepared under certain conditions and circumstances. Is that even how real it is? How to ensure in always relatively peaceful and relatively restless conditions that exist in these areas, and I am sure that they will be relatively calm and relatively restless as they have been in their previous years. Therefore, I think that when it comes to national security, when it comes to protecting the integrity of every country that these chapters are always equally open, that it should not be so blind and say it is a closed topic and by entering integration it ceases to be worth to us. I think it's the denominations. And the fact that so far has been almost incomprehensible to Europe, the European Union is actually creating its own army to support its foreign policy. We have it as a fact today. So, the European Union has estimated that it must almost create its own army to support the realisation of its objectives in the foreign-political plan. It speaks of a very important role for the military. He's probably talking, because the European Union probably has NATO behind it. Why would she create battle groups with NATO, and I think she created two battle groups. And key countries in the European Union. Therefore, no one ignores their own safety when it comes to defence. We are now in these five years completely loosening access to defence, access to military service, the reserve insurance system, the reforms that if you look from the 1990s on here, tell me one ministry, one sector that had more effective or could be under quotes more effective reforms, but stronger shagging than the Ministry of Defense has experienced. Tell me what sector of ninety-five has experienced such reforms here that have affected the people who have created this country, the system, so I don't know if it's very polite to say whether the overall security of defence has suffered a fall or a rise, I don't know, I'm not going to get into it. But what do I want to say? I want to say that almost no country, no association of different countries gives itself the right to remain without their own resources of defense. At least behind them had huge potentials that were of this kind of political, military, or any other character. So I don't want to, and neither does the HSS club thinks that we shouldn't support these changes and additions, because they're created as the natural state of things. We found them today, you can't change them. But the fact remains that it is not allowed when it comes to national security, when it comes to defence of the country, when it comes to periods where they are assessed better or worse, when it comes to general regional security, and it is very, very variable, there are fluctuations almost more frequently than in exchange rates, when it comes to that. It must not be left simply empty. And it must begin with a more serious intention to just ensure the strength and credibility of your own power of defense. And these are now the largest sea maneuvers held in the Adriatic, I don't know, soon, do they, they're just talking about that Croatia must be strengthened in that Croatian Navy space, that it must be sovereign in its waters. You know what we are and the declaration of ZERP and the declaration of any restrictions. If we don't have an operational way of being sovereign, to control, to punish, and to be present here. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of potential today. Of course, the question of who will send Croatian soldiers to practice, whether it will be Parliament, whether it will be Government, I do not think it is present in the selection. I think that what I have always said is a matter of supervision of the Armed Forces, but quality supervision, the issue of having all the instruments to monitor the budget, spending the budget, the way to obtain as the most important segment is the issue that Parliament must have. Parliament needs to establish its role and its mechanisms, not to deal with quasimechanisms in whether the decision will be made by the government or by Parliament. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It is irrelevant because there is a majority in each Parliament. Tell me who most of them won't listen to their government. Well, everyone listened to most of their government. Every serious majority has listened to their very serious government, so I've changed the formulation. But also Parliament's task should not be, Parliament's task should not be to establish what kind of government it is, but to deal with those reasons why parliamentary supervision exists. Parliamentary oversight exists not because of the parliamentary majority or because of the government, but because of the role of the Croatian Parliament to oversee the processes of budgetary decision-making, when deciding on budget spending, through a system of procurement and direct control opportunities for the country's defence. Therefore, I would like to remind again that it is precisely European practice and European legislation that has just been built on these elements. We are, of course, never inclined, regardless of whose appearance it was most likely that such a practice in Parliament would change. Because when it changes in Parliament, then it will become normal everywhere, but until we change it. And we're the only ones who can change. Then of course we suffer from the same illness all the time. We repeat always as parrots that problems were born in the procurement system, in the bargaining system, in the system in whether we will support Austria or Finland, whether we will be age with this instead of leading the perspective on our own needs and on our own creation of a strategy that must lead right out of this Parliament. Croatia doesn't care, it doesn't matter who they get the guns from, but it doesn't matter if 70% of these weapons will be built from the Croatian constant, whether it will be produced in Croatia, whether it will open jobs and perspectives in Croatia. And it doesn't matter if it's Finland, Austria, Germany, anything else. Thus, through this Law of Defense, which is really important, because it breaks all these dilemmas and topics that I was talking about. What is now contained in the amendments and additions is a copy of what we have today. We have this condition today. There's nothing to take away or add. And it can't be accepted. But that's not enough. That's not even a good way to go, no matter who drew it or when he drew it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86698	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86699	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, here was the government for 3 and a half years, although at the beginning of its term of office in 2003, it promised to make amendments and additions and laws in the area of defence and national security in order to implement all reforms that had already been evaluated, which we saw in the first report on the state of defence preparedness or state in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, are necessary. Unfortunately, that's what we're getting, so now in April, it means at the end of this government's term. And that's not what we expected at the Croatian Party club. However, this law seems to have the character of a promotional electoral law and is related only to this part of the proposal on the possibility of freezing the obligation to serve the military term. Look, all the countries that went to pure professionalization, so this is the introduction of pure professionalization related to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been doing this for a long, long time. Consider Italy and France and all other countries in Europe. Because in order to go to a pure professional army, there must be a state that is economically strong. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we are going to freeze the obligation to serve the military deadline without us being able to hear from the defence minister here today, or from the government's representative, what about that cost-effectiveness study. Namely, this cost-effectiveness study of total professionalization as far as we know was started with the creation of the Ministry of Defence and how much we know when it was actually more expensive than what is thought to be savings and essentially more expensive. Because look at the professional army, so the first in Europe was the UK, the United States. Why? Because they were frames of economic submission and small means a strong economy, they had good economic indicators, a good state budget. Italy, if you know, and France were gradually introduced, so they thought one period, so they stopped, so they thought another period. We know for ourselves what our situation is about the part that stands out in the state budget for the Ministry of Defense. Namely, if 75% of the defence ministry's budget goes to pay and material costs, we know it's not satisfactory. If we know that this is part of it and that part of our members' participation in peacekeeping missions either under the auspices of the United Nations, either under the NATO alliance, then there are clear indications that it will be difficult to implement the reform and modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia if these financial indicators are not known. We expect the government to come out clearly with this cost-effectiveness study until the second reading. Let's see exactly what this brings to Croatia. Is it cheaper, to what extent it's cheaper and what it will bring to the end. The other problem will automatically occur with this and that's this part of the so-called. voluntary military service. We have also seen the trend of reporting to the civil service now means military service. We have seen that the devastating results of an assessment of the recruit's capacity for military service for 2005 and 2006 are that up to 40% of them have been declared either incompetent or temporarily incapable of military service. Whether this is due to a change in the state of the nation's health or this is due to the setting of new criteria a little more stringent than they used to be, it's a matter at the Ministry of Defence that needs to be determined. But if we go to this relationship, the question is whether in a few years we will be able to count and what number of Croatian citizens means either a recruit or a woman who will volunteer for military service in order to make this part necessary to be filled in and filled in by the Armed Forces themselves. So these are the questions that we should definitely bring and get a full answer to so that we finally know when we decide whether at this point we're ready for the professionalization of the Armed Forces. Do we know what professionalisation means in the fullest sense, whether it will really be cheaper or more expensive for Croatia and finally get that answer which are the main documents that are important for the implementation and reconstruction and reform of both the Armed Forces and the defence system as a whole. In the latest report, it was said that we proposed last year that the defence strategy of national security must also be amended. So if we have what is most important for the establishment, for the reform, for the reconstruction of the entire system as well as the defence system and the Armed Forces as the main holder of that part of the Croatian defence system, we have to have a strategy. Finally, we have also received a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces. We have to have a defense plan and then there comes a normal and this part of the Law on Defence and Follow-up Other Laws like the Service Act in the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, now we're going with the Defense Act before we went with the changes to the strategy. The strategy was meant to go at the same time with the amendment of the defence strategy and national security because the strategy as such sets out the rules, sets out the frameworks, gives guidance on how and how and then we come to the Law on Defence, other regulations and the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces that will be in this function. You have only done this newspaper here that you have introduced this part of the strategic defence review that has been spoken of for a long time, it is only a question of whether this is what you have defined here, whether the strategic review of the defence document, which gives an assessment of the state of defence capabilities, development and... the defence system and determines the need for reforming or adapting the defence system in the emerging circumstances... The environment. [[You don't understand.]] Look, a strategic defence review Croatia has normally started working because it was part of Croatia's efforts to join NATO. We don't know if you've guessed exactly, if you know in the end what that document you're talking about here is, what it's about to assess the defence abilities, the development and the arrangement of everything else. The assessment of all this means that the Government, or the Parliament, determines by considering the state of defence preparedness, about the situation in the Armed Forces. We know that you have done this part as part of what needs to be done in terms of reforms and what Croatia according to these parts of the action programme and the plan implemented in the phases related to joining NATO. You have also added here in Article 3 a number of different documents to be adopted as such. It is your concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia with the forces of partner countries. You didn't define what that is, which should be defined then. Plan to offer infrastructure facilities in the Armed Forces of other countries on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Take care of this plan, obviously no one else can bring except the Croatian Parliament. It is a plan to offer infrastructure facilities in the Armed Forces of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It means whether these are certain bases of other armed forces and decisions cannot be made on this document or verify such a document, but only the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, as you mean under the catalogue of competences for the Republic of Croatia and other necessary documents arising from the commitments undertaken under international defence organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined or has access on the basis of international contracts are documents ensuring the implementation of partner objectives. Look, when you introduce new documents in the area of defense, you have to distinguish two things. One thing that is taken according to international commitments is that it is either a Partnership for Peace or it is international agreements that we, as Croatia, have concluded with some other countries in the area of defence of the Armed Forces, or it is within the Partnership for Peace. Then in law, you have to sort out what's the point of what's going to be planned. Because this particularly dissuades us from this plan to offer infrastructure facilities in the Armed Forces of other countries. So we'll have foreign bases of foreign armed forces in Croatia, is that it? I mean, that's a thing that neither the Government nor the President of the Republic can decide but only the Croatian Parliament can decide, but it is necessary that all these documents that you're predicting to give one definition, to give or by sublegal regulation to work out whether it will be, how many documents such as documents will have, who will make it, in which way. So that's the methodology. For example, the methodology must be normal for drawing up this concept of supporting the Republic of Croatia to partner countries' forces. It has to be, so one part will be made out of already internationally, the other part is what we will prepare to have ready for something else. Now, you're taking this part, which means whether there should be 16 thousand members of the armed forces, of which 8% will have to be permanently engaged in various missions, either within the NATO alliance. That's the criteria you know. And to achieve all this means that one part of the modernisation, reconstruction and everything else needs to be done, because, let's be realistic so far, what was done within the armed forces was one part of the reforms that we can only translate into a reduction in the number of members of the armed forces. But in this second part means modernization and everything else there was no significant shifts, there was neither a lack of financial resources, and most of all this is important in this part when it comes to the Law on... , this part means the actions of the defence system's defence forces in action means in peace, in actions of protection and rescue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also means that when we're already there, there's one thing left, that old question about the comparison and the engagement of the armed forces that there must be the subsignations of one and the other, the president of the state, the Prime Minister. So that's that and the Constitutional Part that's pretty badly worked out and that in certain situations he can have doubts about. We think this is where we should go on and on that so-called "introduction" situation. this part, describe the extraordinary circumstances. So there's a situation where the defense system is engaged. It is engaged in peace, in protection and rescue actions, which has also been established by the Law on Defence and Normal which should be elaborated by the plan of use, the plan of action in protection and rescue, but also means we have to anticipate these other possibilities as well as in any way possible, so the second situation is immediate threat, independence and unity of the state, the situation of the war situation, but there are these situations which, in fact, have various attempts of terrorist action or anything else, that would be in that category of extraordinary circumstances. These extraordinary circumstances have all other countries elaborated. So we suggest that you think about introducing this one that we once had an idea of extraordinary circumstances, that concept has all the countries out there in terms of, but only in terms of action and in what circumstances, not in terms of going into some other situation. But I'm saying, there's a need to think this through because there are situations like this. Let's say you take the variant means for the use of the armed forces or parts of it must be the subsignation of both the President of the State and the Prime Minister. It's a terrorist act. The president of the state is, for example, in India, the Prime Minister in Ireland and that a decision on use will be made, and at this point you can have the only possibility of using an anti-aircraft defence. How will it be brought? And the President of the Parliament was not authorized to do so? No, no, that's the situation. There's no bargaining about national security. So here I am talking to you about a specific situation when it can happen that an anti-aircraft defense must be used. We've got to use anti-aircraft defenses, we've got a tip from the NATO alliance, we've got a tip from MISX, the CIA, anyone else that the stolen plane is a terrorist with the intention of terrorist action. The only thing we can do in that situation is use, say, anti-aircraft defense, crash that plane. But how to tear down when an order cannot be given, the system of giving orders is known. So these are all the situations where it actually needs to be stimulated in advance so that the solutions that will be contained will be such as to respond and respond to all situations. Let's just say it can happen that the President of the Parliament is on his way, right? At the same time. It might be. Therefore, we think that it will take a lot of answers and effort for a second reading to get a law that will have a useful value and that will be applied as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86700	Thank you. In 16 and 12, it was time to report a ten-minute debate on this point. For SDP's Club of Representatives, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86701	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We will certainly try not to discuss the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO in this debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. This is an extremely important issue and it would be good if we had one thematic debate in the Assembly on how and what should be done for Croatia to meet the conditions for joining NATO as soon as possible and, of course, to ensure and protect its defence and security interests on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make a full contribution to peace, stability and security in this area and in Europe, even wider as a future NATO member. However, there is no debate on such a law because it concerns a large number of citizens, or rather all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it concerns the creation of a legal instrument for the regulation of the right of obligations and responsibilities relating to the defence of its own country... for safety, without a small objection to the President of the Parliament at first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Notwithstanding the fact that the President of the Assembly is extremely burdened with affairs and obligations, it is quite clear, but before setting out the agenda and putting the item on the agenda, it must be ensured that the proposed item of the agenda meets the Rules of Procedure of the prescribed conditions in order to... discuss. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, I must say, we have received a proposal to amend and supplement the Defence Act which has 30 articles. Of these 30 articles, three actually don't change anything and don't supplement it, but only actually supplement the text and actually refer to the transitional and final provisions, so there are 27 left. Of these 27, in 13 cases, the proposed provisions of the laws amending or supplementing the existing provisions of those provisions that are being amended and complemented are not available and we would actually have to seek the text of this Act and beyond this proposal on the Internet or in the "National Journal" to compare it all, and you know that this item is complemented by the agenda. Came up in addition to the agenda. I particularly stress this because several articles are actually prescribed very important powers of certain state bodies that are questionable and something, something was said about it by a colleague Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP club. Not only in terms of whether they should be prescribed, but also in terms of whether that authority should be given to that particular body. So let me just count it quick. If you take Article 2 above, Article 5 is amended as follows: If you take Article 3 again, Article 5 is amended and a new Article 5 is added. ... Article 5 is amended as follows: If you take Article 4 it is not available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you take an article 9 that deletes, for example, Article 12 of that article, which is deleted, it is not available. If you take article 10, you will see that there is no article 13 that is changing and supplementing again. If you take article 14 you will see that there is no article 54 that is actually individual points, items are deleted. If you take article 16, there is no way you can see it from the preceding article 62 when and what happens next as 62a. If you take Article 17, you will see that there is no reference to these points of Article 66 that is changing and should read etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Or Article 26 does not contain an article 143 which is deleted, etc. So here I repeat, it's just a formal failure. Because of the harmonisation of the law for formal reasons, then I could keep that part quiet on behalf of our club. But it's not about form. It's about important content. So, for example. We now receive, among other things, a very important authority in the new Article 3 which prescribes that Article 5a, which reads, should be added to this section: "The concept of support for the Republic of Croatia forces of partner countries, the plan to offer infrastructure facilities to the Armed Forces of other countries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia." You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, they can be shelters on our islands and shores for submarines, they can be shelters for military aircraft, for airports, tunnels, etc. It can be at the end of buildings, infrastructure facilities called military facilities. These can, of course, be objects that are connected to radar stations. They can naturally be objects that are bound to polygons. But there may also be objects that should be considered in the world as in the Czech Republic and Poland to be objects where radars in one country will be deployed in one place, and in another, rockets that should intercept stray missiles that would eventually attack and threaten NATO's defence security and system. Let's just let it go. I tell everything what it can be. And that such a decision is decided by someone outside the Parliament without any authority from him. This is specific you know it yourself and you have seen, if you take Article 3 and read the argument, then you see well, so it is said in the very explanation, that these documents are brought by the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces on a proposal from the Government. And a professional background is being prepared by the ministry and the headquarters. So, the government, the President of the Republic, the Chief Staff, has the territory of the Republic of Croatia, not only about infrastructure facilities, because they are not floating objects outside the territory. I think we should discuss this matter. If we evaluate and get instruments to monitor the process of making such decisions and to see when it can affect matters of interest for the Republic of Croatia, not only for defence reasons, but also for other examples of environmental, etc., tourist, economic, then we can discuss this issue, perhaps even this formulation. But with additional instruments that will actually ensure control, control and security on behalf of all of us. Of course, in such a situation, we at the club think it's good, well, here it is, first reading. It is good that such principled remarks can be put in place and that these questions before the second reading should be discussed further and adopted and taken into account. It is a similar situation where, in fact, it is argued that Articles 6 and 5, and then Articles 4, 5 and 6, try to settle the additional issue in fact, Article 7. The Constitution concerning the use of the Croatian Armed Forces or Armed Forces within the organisation of which we are a member, within or together with partners with whom we work together, either humanitarian or exercise. But there are some things that are quite interestingly solved. And we need to take this very seriously. First I say again, we're sorry that President Parliament didn't come back to supplement this, to get us all the material to discuss. But when such a thing happened, then we had to cut for what we had as a possible instrument. If you take, for example, Article 5, then it is said to be amended in Article 7 behind paragraph 2. And now he says here all of a sudden, he gives a preliminary opinion on issues that are significant and important and on all previous issues is given by the High Commander of the Armed Forces. You know, now the question is why would the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander, for example, agree on a proposal for a defence strategy or agree to a proposal for a defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and give a preliminary opinion on the proposal for a strategic defence review? How is that possible? Well, the Supreme Commander is responsible for implementing the strategic defence plan. Why would he actually give a previous opinion? The previous opinion is an instrument in which he must consider it but does not oblige anyone. Now the question is, who does it answer to? That's the question, you know. And how from the point of view of achieving Parliament's constitutional position to oversee the work of executive bodies and in this segment, we can then realise our opinion. A similar situation is related to a new point of 25, where previous opinions are said to be given on defence proposals brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. And now something very, very interesting is happening. Suddenly we get the President of the Republic in the Croatian Parliament. And that's in the legislative procedure. Watch out. We pass laws, because here it says, if the previous opinion on the proposal of acts in the area of defence brought by the Government or/and the Croatian Parliament. I/i. And the law is an act. He has legal form, though, a legal act. What are we really going to get into the situation that the President of the Republic will give a preliminary opinion on the proposal, the next proposal to amend and supplement the Defence Act, if this law passes? I think that we haven't seen things here until the end, not even from the point of view of the constitutional position of the division of power, of mutual responsibility, and even less that part of what we might have wanted in good faith, because I believe that this is an attempt to find an instrument in good faith, in fact, of a co-operational form of action of all the members of the trio of power, when it comes to the protection of interest from national importance. I think we should look at it a little differently, and in that respect, I think we should sort it out differently. Of course, there is a similar situation with these issues when the Government can make decisions on the participation of the Croatian army within the organisation, etc. related to individual exercises. You know, it's never good at law to give a negative definition. Now we have some negative definitions here that we think it would be good to re-examine the offices one more time. There is one interesting thing in Article 39 that changes and adds up to article 11 and that is 39a. a in relation to Article 27. Namely, this new article 39a. in the first paragraph, he says, "The Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander, may decide that the money is not called for by the obligation of military exercise.". So, first of all, we have several instruments that actually restrict the Parliament's legislative activity. The Parliament can carry out legislative activities by passing laws, can adopt political and legal documents, may also make decisions and may be and may be legal documents if they settle certain issues. The second question is whether this issue should be regulated by a decision or by the Defence Act itself if it is a right but it is not possible to go with the assumption that such a law or such a decision of a legal nature can be made provided that we have the previous consent of the President or the Supreme Commander, because if there is no prior consent, there is nothing to discuss at all. Therefore, we are limited by legislative activity, it is number one. And number two, there's an idea that we won't actually have a binding military deadline in the future, we can have people volunteering to serve the army on one hand, but it's as if it's an opportunity for the Parliament to arrange it by a decision on the condition that the government proposes it to him and to get a previous agreement on the one hand. On the other hand, Article 27(1) reads this again. After making a decision not to call the recruits. Look, so the imperial norm of Parliament by 27 will make a decision and if it doesn't, it won't make it because there are no formal procedural assumptions because there is no prior consent or proposal from the government. But I'm asking nicely, in relation to the citizens who will eventually be unhappy that there is no such decision that allows no more mandatory military service, you know who's to blame. Well, the Parliament and the MPs. I don't think it's a good idea, that this idea, whether it's an election or another year now, doesn't matter. It has long matured the idea in Croatia that we should have a professional army, that the military deadline can and should be abolished and that we too can leave and should leave the possibility for those who wish to voluntarily acquire military knowledge and experience, even as military manuals to do so. But please, we at the club suggest that until the second reading we go with the right to be included in the law and to prescribe that there is no mandatory military service with us, that it is the right of every citizen if he wishes to report, of course, to meet the conditions of health, etc. which are required of it, may be a volunteer or a voluntary military service, and in such a situation there are no such needs and these powerful structures that will actually be subject to the resolution of this issue depending on the political will of either the Government or the President of the Republic. We also feel that in several of these articles, which are mentioned here, we need to do an additional little nomotechnically to make them more clear and precise, but these most important remarks we had to make in the first reading with the belief that our proposer would consider them well and, until the second reading, correct this proposal and then propose, of course, the law as a whole as our Rulesman requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86702	Thank you very much. A colleague of Arlovic, it is true that, I have reviewed the contribution to the bill, that it is in the Law of Defence that there are missing, that some articles have been left behind, that one side is missing. It's in copying, in transmission. ... Therefore, it is important to make sure that individual paragraphs are released in the Defence Act. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, and there's no war parameters. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Zhao Sockovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86703	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act is proposed after five years of application of the applicable Defence Act, which did not solve any problems in the best possible way and primarily related to the maintenance of military exercises. This new Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Defence of intent to more detailedly regulate the way in which decisions are taken on the maintenance of military exercises in the country and abroad, set up a defence council, prescribes a way of appointment of the Chief Defence Inspector, introduces the possibility of not calling for military service, as well as the possibility of releasing certain categories, the obligation to serve a military deadline, for example, police and religious officials. In this debate, we must make sure that the defence is a state function of special social importance whose implementation is carried out by armed forces, state authorities, local and regional self-government and many other factors which all together participate in the defence of freedom of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. The defence system is part of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia, which is a unique form of structure and preparation of military and civil defence holders aimed at achieving the defence objectives. This bill has maximum respect for the objective political situation where Croatia should be admitted to NATO by the year, but as Croatia's Euro-Atlantic organisations draw closer, the need for the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces troops in international military exercises with NATO forces and the Partnership for Peace is increasing. The current law makes it difficult for the decision-making system as well as for certain competences, so the proposed amendments clearly define the competence of the decision-making system in maintaining international military exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the participation of the existing armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in other international military exercises. This proposal for a law will significantly facilitate international co-operation and meet European countries' standards. The high level of readiness of the Croatian Armed Forces is impossible to achieve without frequent military exercises both with domestic and international military troops. Military exercises show the level of readiness of armed forces in the service of defense. Finally, Article 2 of the current defence law states that the fundamental purpose of defence is to deter the attack on the Republic of Croatia, protect its sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of citizens, and I am deeply convinced that military exercises are, in particular, with international troops absolutely in the function of deterring possible attacks on the Republic of Croatia. Under the current law, military service is the obligation of all recruits, and the time and method of reference is determined by the defence minister on the proposal of the Chief Staff. This proposal provides for the possibility that the Croatian Parliament, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, may, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, decide that the money is not called for to serve the military term. It is also proposed to prescribe the possibility of voluntary military service for both men and women in accordance with the law on voluntary military service. This enables them to acquire basic military knowledge and skills so that they can compete equally for entry into the active composition of the armed forces. There is a possibility for a hand-to-hand soldier who meets the conditions for admission to the active military service to conclude an additional training contract after basic military training and thus acquires greater rights and increases the possibility of entering the active group of armed forces. This raises one serious question: if, with all the stimulating measures and motivations, there is insufficient interest in the possibility of voluntary military service, how to fill the active composition of the armed forces. But the answer to that question will give future time. The new Bill proposal allows for more flexible access to military records. It allows easier freedom of movement for people, which is also one of the fundamental principles when Croatia enters the European Union. I think the amendment law and the amendment of the Defense Act is good, so I'm going to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86704	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86705	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence as many as there are relevant novelties in all its provisions, it seems to me that for the entire Republic of Croatia and for our entire legal order from the aspects of equality, fundamental equality and the foundation of democracy. the equality of men and women has and is the most significant provision of Article 11. So this law, or whatever is in it, goes beyond this topic of defense. Women in politics, regardless of their political colour, have a special task of removing, getting up against all those norms, against all end-of-the-end stereotypes that put a man and woman in an unequal position. Here, when it comes to defence, I first of all take it upon myself to be a duty, to defend the country first of all than it is a duty to honor it. Unfortunately, it's probably been before, and like you all here, you can only remember this Homeland War that unfortunately, many have not had the honor of defending their country. Many of them were women. On the other hand, many have also withdrawn this duty. But we wouldn't spoil this subject about it right now. At the end of the day and by the beginning of the provisions, state the provisions of the Constitution on equality between both men and women and in an explicit constitutional norm that it is a defence, that the defence of the country is the duty of every citizen unless there are some objective obstacles or there is his specific objection to the conscience, but that does not mean that it cannot be engaged in any other way. This is why I find it very important to have a provision of Article 11 which many have talked about and mentioned, noting the other novelties adopted by this law, in particular this fact that more than one such obligation, with the possibility of meeting such assumptions, when the Croatian Parliament brings to the Government's proposal, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander, the decision that the money is no longer called for to serve the military term. This is a very good provision that gives a special tone to this law. But like all good things, they only have one flaw to arrive late. And he's right about his colleague, Radosh, when he specifically pointed out this fact that we could save a lot of money. That with a proposal like this, it didn't come out much, much earlier. And even in, regardless of the mandate of this government, maybe even past. Now, I wouldn't even go in there knowing about it when it was the right time, but it certainly looks like it's a little late. But I'm saying it doesn't diminish her significance after all. This novelty, which I particularly highlight, is that women can volunteer to serve a military term. However, this standard should be further upgraded because here you see a question arises, that is to say, in the application of one of these provisions, there will have to be an interpretation and in order not to have unnecessary interpretations that may then be different, I think that the second reading should complete that norm in order to determine the time when women can do so and appear. Whether that provision is true for the same, in the same way as for men by the end of the 27th year. And what is happening is you see in the current provision of Article 56 that the obligations to serve in the reserved system are therefore subject to the military service. So if we had a woman who volunteered for military service, it would be extremely unfair for her to belong to the reserve system there, in the way that she had so far provided for in Article 56. that women of 19 years of age who have the appropriate professional training to carry out professional and technical tasks in the Armed Forces. Women in such a way now that they are given one option should not only be limited to doing professional and technical work. I may be mistaken, but it seems to me that it was necessary to complete this norm. Because how such women will later be treated with regard to the reserve system itself remains an open question. And so, I repeat, I should say with a saying until when these women are able to volunteer for military service. Is it then identical to those conditions that apply to and for, it is assumed that but then it may be either in explanation or certainly in our materials that later if there were a dispute then an interpretation could be applied, in a way that, historical interpretation, i.e. to see what is said then in materials if it is not going to a special supplement, or if such a supplement appears to be nutritious. Here are the other provisions I would not discuss because the fact from my point of view is very important to me, and here is the moment that many have warned that new opportunities, and better said and troubles, suggest this service of the military period is unacceptable. We've seen the very possibility that he was announcing the law from the moment he left the possibility for the people. So, to report to civilian military service. There were then complaints in public from certain political groups, that is, one public reaction that was intended to take place above all, and politically to disqualify such persons as less benevolent persons, those who ultimately want to avoid such an obligation. However, the frequency of such persons appearing on the application for civil service of the military deadline has led to the fact that we have a real situation that could not have acted differently then, but with such a norm and with such a law covering the situation we practically have in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86706	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86707	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about the Law on Defence and the Law on Armed Forces, then we must look with special respect at these points of the agenda because the Croatian soldier, or Croatian Army, wrote the latest history, which means freed and created an independent and sovereign state of Croatia. After the 1992 recognition of the new First Defence Act, we now have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act after five years of change. The proposal for a law provides for a more detailed way of making a decision on the maintenance of military exercises in the country and abroad, the establishment of a Defence Council, the appointment of the Chief Defence Inspector and the introduction of the possibility of not inviting recruits to serve the military deadline as well as the release of certain categories of police officers, and priests and other religious officials, religious communities in the Republic of Croatia from the obligation to serve the military term. Normally, today, as I said when we experienced the Croatian Army and in this situation we have to approach something called professionalization of the Croatian Army. In the process of bringing the Republic of Croatia closer to the Atlantic organisations, there is a growing need for the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces troops in international military exercises with NATO forces forces and partnership for peace. Also, the paper is a military obligation for all recruits, and the time and manner of sending recruits to serve the military term of the Armed Forces is determined by the current law by the defence minister on the proposal of the Chief Staff. However, I will refer especially to Croatian military officials abroad who have so far had great problems in coming to serve military duty in our homeland. A part of Croatian military officials living outside the border of the Republic of Croatia, especially in European countries, have had major problems coming to the call, or responding to military service in our country. This bill does not abolish the military obligation, but opens up the possibility of suspending the call for recruits if the Parliament and the President of the State assess these opportunities. In order to address the problems and difficulties of carrying out military obligations and military officials staying abroad proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act, it is proposed that the money that resides abroad from birth or prior to the start of the recruiting obligation is not called for to be carried out up to the age of twenty-six. If they appear in the homeland by the age of 30, they may, as well as others, volunteer for military service. However, there is also a newspaper here, namely the novelty that women are now able to acquire basic military knowledge and skills, i.e. an even competition for entry into the active composition of the Armed Forces. I'm particularly happy about that, but I wouldn't stress that, because women in the time of the Homeland War were defending their country in their own way. Here, from these and similar innovations resulting from the amendment of the Law on Defence I accept this law in the first reading, but I will only answer those who are and that is colleague Radoš and colleague Ingrid Antičević have said about the lost time why this law was not passed five years ago. As far as I know in 2000, both counterpart Ingrid Antičević and counterpart Jozo Radoš were in the coalition government and they had a majority in the Croatian Parliament and they could pass the law, not talk about lost time today. They obviously lacked responsibility at the time, lacked knowledge and determination, because whenever you are in power you need knowledge, you need responsibility, and you need determination. Obviously, the coalition government didn't have it, and that's why it has this power, and it's never too late, and thank God that we came at this time today to talk about the Croatian military in 2007 about professionalization, reconstruction, military manuals, so I hope that in due course we will have what we want, which is a professional army and that we will have a large number of volunteers who will come for military service. Because if today goes a number and asks for civil service of military obligations then why would we force someone in a way that is not necessary to safeguard and defend the sovereignty of the Croatian army if we will have a professional army to guard what has started and done the Croatian army since 1990 with the first establishment of the National Guard Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86708	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86709	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I will, in my debate, remain exactly on this segment, which is therefore Article 11 which opens the possibility here to, that the Government proposes to the Parliament not to invite the bonds on, handbooks to compulsory military service. Of course, it would be a much better provision for me to change the law in a way that we say that there is no obligation to serve the military, not to leave the possibility that the government would therefore suggest not to call. But then, at one point, there's obviously a possibility that the government would suggest and start calling back on the money to serve the military term. But here, for starters, this is good. And I agree with colleagues and colleagues who said time was lost because the signs that most recruits wanted to serve a civilian military deadline, not in the Armed Forces, were a clear sign that something had to be changed and that it could have been done before. It could have been done a year ago and three and five years ago. It could have been done 10 years ago or anything since '97. It could have been very serious about that. And the lost time is indeed for those who had to go to the army and serve either the military deadline in the Armed Forces or in the civil service because they spent 6 or 8 months, and we could have had them in a different way activated in the community, whether they were gaining some knowledge, so that they were studying, whether they were working in their jobs or in a different way. So we really think it might have been done for them before. In which I must say that it certainly was an extremely socially useful civil service military deadline, because my experiences with civilian handbooks are extremely positive, they have indeed done great help in performing certain public services, public services, in the civil segment, so especially in civil care. And I think that when there are no more civilian handbooks at the end of this year that certain institutions, institutions, will have a very serious problem because they are used to having very valuable civilian handbooks that have helped them carry out their public affairs. Here perhaps you should say that here this law implies that on the day of the parliamentary elections, which is so on November 25th, if they are going to be regular they will end this one stage, so the last generation of handbooks will end their military obligation, should end on November 28th, but I suppose they will get something rewarding, so just before the parliamentary elections, this phase will end, which in any case gives a small tone of this law and as a pre-election law. But okay. I think everyone's gonna say hi. I think it's really important. What would have been better, which would have been better if maybe in the first part of the year or last year we had discussed this law because the reconstruction of the Armed Forces started as much as I knew the orders and the accommodation of certain centres and the military were sent, so this process is ongoing regardless of what we are currently discussing in this law. And it's not that important here because of the handbook, but maybe it is and because of the handbook it should be very clear and unequivocally said that the last generation will not call for military service this year but that we practically still have one, one call and that this will no longer be done, that these young people too know how to plan their future in the short and long term, but I also think that this law should have been discussed a few months ago that you are a large number of active military personnel, officials and tenants know how to organize certain things. And I think that now big changes will happen in a very short time. Because a certain number of military systems are practically shut down from 31.12., so people have to either move to some other areas, to some other military facilities to a new job. Or unfortunately, what no one was talking about today will be out of a job. Today, we already have a situation to offer people first and foremost the furniture to switch to Plekler. Those who don't crosspleter will in a very short time get fired, and those who have moved topleter probably when it's shut down... They will be offered to go to work in another city or another place, which they will not accept because they have tied their lives to a certain city where they now live. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And very likely they'll find themselves soon before, in a position to lose their jobs. And it's one of the effects of this law as such. He's negative. On the other hand, however, the positive aspect is that we will get large spaces that we can use for development purposes. We will therefore get very attractive spaces which are military now, which are mostly infrastructure and municipally equipped and which can be used for developmental purposes. And I would like to appeal to the current and future government, as it will, of course, be parliamentary elections to activate those spaces in as short a time as possible, and not to let it happen to us at the end of the year that the military from the military will leave, and then for years, the military will not be activated for any purpose but to spend a great deal of money only on the protection of these objects. So, first of all, it would be good if local self-government units were told that their military offices had stopped acting and that they might be asked to offer programmes to activate these military facilities for development purposes. So in scientific, educational, entrepreneurial, technological, building housing for POS or social housing. But unfortunately, we still have a situation today that a large area and a large number of objects stand completely untapped in the barracks that have already been abandoned and by the end of the year, surely at least a dozen more very attractive military units will remain abandoned. And then you face that slowness of administration, so you have to solve this issue with the MORH, so you have to solve the issue with the Office of Property Management, and then decisions, and then programs and then simply these objects fail, and then it would be good to have priority in getting these objects get those people who will offer employment primarily to employees and subsistence workers who are working in these barracks today, who are going to lose their jobs and, of course, the active military people, although they are not that kind of danger, they still have a much greater possibility of taking care of what this law says next. But that is why it should be speeded up, perhaps, that the second reading should be carried out very recently in order to help those to whom it applies, and it concerns a large number of people, so that recruits and a large number of people currently working in the system can be prepared. The deadlines for implementing this law are 31.12. of this year, so until then, the many changes that have been caused by this law, or by the law that is next on schedule, or by the proposal of a decision not to invite the handbooks to serve the military term. I think that it should certainly be much stronger to activate spectrum, because spectrum at the moment should therefore be more strongly involved, offer what is in the programme and the player should also be much clearer and more direct towards the employees of these facilities. And let me finish. So I support this law, especially in the segment, so there will be no more military service obligations. I pray that as soon as possible with another reading and that the Government comes out as soon as possible with a program of providing extra employees, i.e. the way in which these facilities are available, it would be good to have clear criteria and that we can activate it as soon as possible. And in the end, I'd just like to answer, but there's no more Pera Kovacevic here to say, there's no fear of subsigning for a declaration of war. They don't run anymore, so they carry from one president to another. I'm convinced HlTRO. HR would solve it if there were any problems with the electronic signature in the declaration of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86710	This is good. Final review, Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86711	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank you for your support of the proposed amendments and amendments to this law, but I will use this opportunity of final review and answer several questions and views raised at the time of this debate. It is true and targeted without any desire to conceal it is not about abolishing the military term as a legal category; it is about the possibility, opening up the possibility in this House of the Government, with the agreement of the President of the Republic of Croatia as commander-in-chief, that the money from the decision-making process, from its entry into force until further notice, should not be called for mandatory military service. For what? Because all the political processes in our neighborhood aren't over, we can't ignore that fact. There is a possibility that if we resort to this method to end the military term as a legal category, that in case of some need we cannot activate that possibility because you cannot create it, you cannot impose an obligation unless it is within the law. We found an instrument that reflects the current situation, the assessment of the threats and the human resources of the reserve qualified potential of the Croatian Armed Forces. Nothing is late in this decision. Croatia received a clear framework for its membership at the NATO summit in Riga. I personally believe that in 2008, we will receive an invitation and soon after that we will become full members of the NATO alliance. Allies, partners in one security alliance. Without that alliance, without that membership about this and the possibility could not be a speech. One who is responsible for considering the defence needs of the country would not then be able to talk about the freezing of the military deadline because the defence capabilities in all segments would have to solve themselves, finance themselves, then the possibility of funding the defence budget could not be recommended on NATO by 2% of the gross domestic product but would have to stand out for 6.2 to 6.5% of gross domestic product, which is a tremendous burden and should not be listed here as all the possibilities would then be narrowed down because all elements of the defence system would have to develop themselves, at least 75 thousand soldiers. Although it is not a topic today, we are not today, by adopting these amendments and by supplementing this law, we are not adopting and making a decision on the application of this institute, but only in response to the assessment of the qualified potential. We are in the long-term development plan adopted by this High House in July of last year, projecting sustainability of potential if the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia voluntarily spent 2,000 handiwork hands per year. Although today we have an institute of compulsory military service, it is actually a voluntary military service. In the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia today, on a military deadline that is mandatory under the law, comes one who wants it. One who does not want to sign a statement called objecting to a conscience, which is neither questioned, and they go to institutions for something that is their military term. The military thing, with the defense capabilities of the country, has nothing to do with it. We're not going to talk about some of these objectors having powerful misdemeanor solutions to violent behavior, having requirements for holding and carrying guns, but that's another topic. If the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were to join the projected 2,000 voluntary handbooks, and I am convinced that there will be many more, because today there are 8,000 annual averages, sustainability of the 2025 potential, I am talking about bonds up to 45 years of age. It's not the ultimate legal obligation, it's 55 for men, 50 years for women would be 2025. 315 thousand and 500 trained reserves. Just for illustration. During the Homeland War, we had the most engaged people in the Croatian Army troops in the days of "Storm" 217 thousand. So during the armed aggression, during the time Croatia was creating a defence system, when it was solving the problems caused by the aggression in Croatia, we were engaged 217 thousand, and here we are talking about 315 thousand and 500 people and we are talking about the time when Croatia will already be a member of the NATO alliance, when it will use the benefits of collective defence. Therefore, there is no concern that the human reserve potential of defence Croatia would be weakened. The property of the Republic of Croatia is managed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is a provision of the Law on Property and other real rights of 1995 and cannot be concerned that the government will determine which infrastructure facilities will be available to support the host country in partnership. We accepted this partnership goal when we applied for NATO membership and handed over our first action plan in the framework of the membership action plan and we put that provision in place. So this all has one continuity. It doesn't start today, it doesn't end today, it's one reform that's under way. We have taken over this partnership goal, and now, on the basis of the Law on Property and other real rights, we determine that the Government, which is legally available on the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, is also making a decision on this. The President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, on a proposal, with the consent of the President of the Republic, thus the Parliament also adopts a defence strategy, is therefore logical to propose this decision to freeze the service of the military term. A little around infrastructure facilities, what the distinguished representative Mršić was saying. It's very clear and transparent data. The "National Journal" long-term development plan also includes a plan to leave the facilities. Therefore, with the head of the unit of local self-government, their representative bodies with their plans and programmes can address the central state office, we have clearly stated here what it is to be dynamics, and as far as people who work when we talk about active military personnel we have decided for full professionalisation, the professional soldier does not work in his place of residence alone, he travels after the service, it is a rotation that must be permanent, and as regards state officials and furniture and decisions on the establishment of the company "Pleter" that obligation exists even under the law of 2002, only no one has worked on it, it is now made in agreement with trade unions operating in the MARH and covering the Corps of civil servants and hosts we have obtained this consent, we have explained the reasons, it is carried out and highly protected by the contract of the rights of civil servants and tenants, two years of non-reduction of the systemization of the systemization, regardless of which they are not active in this year. Thank you very much for your support, we will carefully read the phonogram of this session and consider any well-intentioned comments once again and refer this bill to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86712	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, first reading. I give the vote the conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote. The result? 86 for and 4 abstentions reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86715	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the 5th year of the application of the Act of Service to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, some of the existing legal solutions have proved necessary, i.e. to amend them to better support further reform of the Armed Forces, and this Act is also related to the proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act that you had just discussed in its first reading. This Act proposes to further regulate the area of procurement of new personnel for military service, the signing of a second contract for soldiers, the admission to service and the assignment of officer's rank to cadets, the reception of contract reservers, the health protection of persons employed by military personnel, the means of determining the health capacity for military service, military-supply procedure and material responsibility, the deployment during the service, the deployment abroad, the transition and the provision of separate staff, and the wearing of military uniforms after the termination of the service. Following a successful significant reduction in the number of military personnel, the separation of elderly healthcare professionals and those who do not have the possibility of further professional development, assumptions have been made for the gradual achievement of the corresponding staff structure by establishing a system of permanent supply of young and highly qualified personnel for the needs of the armed forces. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Armed Forces Service Act are subject to more detailed arrangements for the procurement of new military personnel, the signing of a second contract for soldiers under contract and the award of the first act for cadets. For the sake of better insight into their health and better health care, it is proposed that active military personnel, general medical and dental primary health care, are generally performed by a military doctor and military dentist as a selected doctor of medicine, or dentistry. Due to the speciality of the military service, the military personnel shall have special obligations and responsibilities, and in accordance with this and specific rights. This proposal is in line with the Ministry of Health and has received their full support. However, while respecting our reality that at this time the military system cannot provide a network of health care institutions so that, as in the civil sector, it is possible that when the work of the military personnel is not possible to achieve primary health care with a military doctor and a military dentist to ensure it, the defence minister may, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, authorise the achievement of primary health care with another selected doctor. Therefore, the standards that apply under the general law governing the health care issue have been followed, but the specificity of the military personnel and the defence military system is something else, and this is how we regulated it in more detail. By prescribing a simpler procedure for the establishment of health skills for the active military service, more efficient and economical procurement of new military personnel can be made possible. It is thus proposed that, instead of a medical commission, the health care capacity for the military service is determined by specialists in the medical work, that medical specialists issue beliefs about established health skills for the military service, and that health commissions decide to object to the beliefs on the health skills of the military service. Furthermore, by prescribing a simpler organisation and especially a simpler way of working military courts, their more effective work will ultimately contribute to increasing military discipline. In the area of determining material responsibility, it is proposed to abolish the commissions to determine the material responsibility. And the determination of the intention or extreme negligence of members of the Armed Forces in the application of damage to the property of the Republic of Croatia is placed in the jurisdiction of military courts. Members of the Croatian Armed Forces may be referred to the applicable Armed Forces Service Act in retirement operations and other activities abroad for a period of 12 months with the possibility of extending the period of up to 3 months. In view of the fact that members of the Armed Forces are involved in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad with personal consent and that the need for extensions of more than 3 months is in practice, as well as the need for re-routing them before the expiry of the legal period of 2 years, the amendment of the legal provisions proposes to remove or mitigate legal restrictions for that participation. According to a new proposal, members of the Croatian Armed Forces return from international peacekeeping missions are required to spend at least a year in the service in the Republic of Croatia instead of the current 2 years. I must say that there is a great interest in members of the Croatian Armed Forces in working on international peacekeeping missions, that there are requirements that there is no time limit but that request cannot be accepted regardless of their expressed desire. It also takes time to recover and work in a unit in the Republic of Croatia before the next reference. Similarly, by strengthening the process of approaching the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the need for the deployment of active military personnel in the work of international organisations in which the term of office generally runs up to 4 years. The proposed amendment to the legal provision provides for the possibility of sending military personnel to work in international military organisations for a period of 4 years. Where, in view of the interest and need of the defence system, active military personnel cease their service before obtaining the conditions for retirement, the Ministry of Defence is obliged to implement a programme of transition and care for the individual staff to facilitate their reintegration and civil system. The proposed amendments to the Armed Forces Service Act clearly define the content of the Transition and Disposal Programme. Those programmes shall consist of the preparation and training of work in market conditions and the corresponding severances in order to facilitate the transition from military to civil careers to active military personnel. In order to mitigate the existing legal solution and bring it into line with the needs of the service, the possibility of temporary detention in the active military service of high-ranking officers or generals who have met the conditions for retirement is prescribed. It is proposed to give power to the Supreme Commander that, in the event of exceptional service needs and in the absence of staff, he may, duly specialised, make a decision on temporary detention in the service of those high-ranking officers. It is also proposed in the draft law that an active military person who has been found incompetent to the active military service cannot stop the service if it has been initiated or has been subject to a strict procedure for a serious offence pending the end of the military constraint procedure. Such a person would be unaligned in the system until the military tightening process is completed. In addition, more clearly, the right of retired officers and officers to be officially represented, for example, by retired generals and by the right of that category of staff to wear military uniforms on solemn occasions. In order to prevent possible abuses of this right, the possibility of losing the right to wear a military uniform for retired officers and officers who harm the reputation of the Armed Forces and the punishment for the violation of persons who wear unauthorized military uniforms is prescribed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the Ministry of Defence at this time, 18.7% of women have been deployed and I am grateful for the words of support and commendation of the proposed legal solutions. Officers, officers working in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, carry out their duties highly professionally and in this law we did not prescribe special conditions because they are the same conditions for men and women, and we do not consider it necessary to prescribe special provisions. They are the pride of the Croatian Armed Forces and have our permanent support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86716	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? National Security Committee, Honorable Representative Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86717	Your Honor, Mr. President! The Committee on Internal Policy, National Security at the 94th session held on 28 March 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Following the opening presentation of the Government's representatives, the Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the view that the proposed legislative solution will contribute to the continuation of the armed forces' reforms. Therefore, this Committee has unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86718	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86719	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! Here, I'll try to be as short as possible. While the previous law was more concerned with decision-making mechanisms when it comes to some important decisions, some important decisions such as participation in peace operations or recruitment, this proposal for a law on service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are much more focused on personal issues that are important for the personal development of the Croatian military, officers, officers and soldiers. The aim of the proposed amendments to the law is to attract, select and select more effectively for the reception of the service, sign a second contract for soldiers, and accept the service and award of the officer's rank to cadets, receive contractual reserves, membership in the board of directors and supervisory boards of commercial companies. And that's one question that should also be regulated when it's of interest to the military industry. Material responsibility, foreign reference, deployment during the service, transition and the care of isolated staff and temporary detention in the service, are all very important issues that deserve our attention. People are the foundation of every major organization everywhere. Especially when it comes to the defence system, the armed forces of one state, ready, motivated, trained, educated with a clear perspective as far as their personal, living status of their families are concerned, etc., it is all part of the importance of planning a successful officer, officer or military career in the lives of people whose life is ultimately given the type and nature of work that works several times and even in peace is very uncertain and unpredictable. The central issue that interests everyone, I would say all the major organizations but especially the armed forces how to get the best, how to keep the best, how to create the best because the best ones are those who determine the quality, efficiency and ability of that system. So it was in the war, and so in peace, although the criteria are significantly different, in the war very clear, simple, in peace very often complex, unclear and for these reasons mechanisms of selection, incentives, professional development are very important. In the war I remember well that then the Chief of Staff and the minister always said the best were where they should be, they were in the field. And thanks to this simple selection criterion that took place in the space that was the most important, most difficult, most complex and challenging Croatian army managed to achieve the ability that was primarily based on quality selection, training of people who were trained. Unfortunately, even the best and most capable of war were injured. It's no different today when we look at demanding, demanding peace operations. Fortunately, the Croatian army does not participate in them in a way that would be in any way similar to what happened in those years 1991 to 1995 but challenges to selection, training of soldiers, officers and officers equally complex and demanding. I'd say they're particularly demanding criteria for selecting soldiers. I remember well one conversation with a retired American general who was Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army and when he was young with a 30-year-old who ended up West Point came to Vietnam and then said whoever was best in West Point was the commander of the company. Unfortunately, he was the first one to make the appointment. What's this about? The criteria set out in the selection of soldiers, especially soldiers and also officers are not only about identifying health skills and physical abilities but especially about what is being given more attention today to their psychological endurance, their psychological ability and very quickly happens that precisely this criterion of psychological ability, robustness, ability to recover quickly after deep stress represents the most important and important criteria, and if these criteria are not met then even under conditions of peace, what happened unfortunately in the war is the fact that not a small number of Croatian soldiers as a consequence of stress earned one serious illness that is related to so-called “supervisory”. post-traumatic war syndrome. Certainly, given the fact that our people participate in the UN's very demanding peacekeeping operations, NATO's peacekeeping operations need and give proper attention to this component today in the selection mechanisms but not only in the selection mechanisms but also in many other ways through various seminars, conferences and even through targeted scientific research into selecting robust, treatment or prevention of post-traumatic war syndrome gives the most attention to NATO as well. Here, in order not to be too long, I might briefly refer to a few articles of the bill that are completely new. I'm not going to say they're innovative, they're there in other armed forces, but I think they deserve attention, and that's why I'd point out. The promotion of education education has various forms and forms, it is part of the personal management for which personal administration is responsible but here in Article 52 of the Staff Officer and Officer who has a scientific degree of master or doctor of science time spent in the act necessary for promotion is reduced by one year in the course of service for each scientific degree. And I think it's good and it's one of these very specific incentives and stimulations especially to young officers, cadets, to those who are just becoming officers of the Croatian Army to have and some additional incentives of such character. In any case, it can't be a goal but the real values behind what's called either a master's degree or a doctorate are a priority, so we don't talk about it the way we talked about this morning when we talked about the Law on Scientific Activity, Masters and Doctorates behind which sometimes I would say almost nothing. That is what I would say is a good, concrete incentive to quality selection, to increase professional competence in the armed forces of the Croatian Army. I especially think one item deserves a little more attention, so I'll just say a few words about it. Technical competence in every armed force is very important, a measure of the ability of the armed forces to use, using efficient very complex technical systems. And I usually know how to say the armed forces of every country are the most complex technical and technological system that every country has in its mood and if someone disagrees, we can talk about it. Article 40: "Article 101 is amended and reads as follows: People sent abroad for participation in peacekeeping operations and other activities" is said in addition, and this is innovation and this is good, given that not a small number of those participating in demanding peace operations wants to return to the peace operation he participated in after a short period of time. In any case, a year's break is one minimum period for recovery, so I would say it also needs a necessary medical, medical, psychological testing and I think it's a very good and very specific solution. We can talk about everything and everything, in general about these laws, but we here have concrete things in the Bill's Supplement and we need to concentrate on them, we need to recognize them. If we have any objections, then we can talk about them. But talking about everything and everything and in the end it's not a good approach to discuss such serious documents and such serious bill proposals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The fact is that some military industry companies require for understandable and justifiable reasons military expertise. For this reason, Article 7 states: An active military person or an official may be a member of a supervisory board in a commercial company of special national interest in accordance with a law governing and preventing conflicts between private and public interests in the conduct of public duties. We used to talk here a few weeks ago about boards and boards, formal things, and we didn't talk about essential things. And the essential thing is competence and expertise. I think this is a good solution that allows some key decisions at the level of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board to be part of the active military personnel. There is no need to talk about which companies or organisations are involved. There's so much for now. I think it is more than obvious that that previous law as well as this bill has several very good, quality solutions and therefore the HDZ Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in Armed Forces in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86720	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86721	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is my honor to say a few more sentences about the development of armed forces in the Republic of Croatia because we are proud not only of the past of the Croatian Army. We're proud of the present. The Croatian Army continues a tradition of the period when it meant first force in the defence of the Croatian state. We know that it will also do so in the future if needed under new circumstances in a new way in the new system of structure and, of course, new techniques and technology. That is why there is before us and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, which is precisely the goal. And this is to increase efficiency and increase and improve the implementation of legal provisions. And here in this bill we're processing several very important factors. First of all, it is to renew and attract new personnel into the military service, which is particularly important at the moment of transition, a gradual transition to professional composition. Then crystallize and define the elements of the selection. Receipt of contractual reserves. Making primary healthcare. Taking care of isolated personnel because of their resociation and involvement in the civil lifestyle. The possibility of keeping in service and after meeting the conditions for retirement and so on. I will mention only a few of these factors that I think are most important in this document. Article 1 is replaced by the general and specific conditions laid down in Articles 19 and 20 of this Regulation. The Law on Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a way that determines how the candidate must meet the specific psychological and health criteria for admission to the military service. This is particularly important for the professionalisation of the Croatian Army because psychological and health preparedness is the only guarantee of quality service in professional military units. Regular psychological and health checks are also established during the service, which is also as important as when accessing the regulations specifically adopted by the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Articles 3 and 4 lay down the rights of contracting parties to greater security, greater existential security in the service of the armed forces and thus in a way that determines their salary. To guarantee their cash prizes. To guarantee them a regular extension of the contract. To guarantee their accurate knowledge of their future careers, therefore, their existence. However, I would especially refer to Articles 8 and 9 that are intruding in providing health care to our active military personnel, soldiers, officers, and officers. In this proposal, basic primary health care is reorganised in such a way that the chosen doctor and the selected dentist are a military doctor and military dentist. Why is that a quality step? The quality step is for two reasons. First of all, such a military doctor or a chosen military dentist under the supervision of the system. This is especially important in order not to abuse some of the health qualities of an employee. To avoid different benefits, some gains on the burden of disrupting the quality of the entire defense. Second, why this is important is that a military doctor, as well as a military dentist, know the specific needs of an active soldier, a working officer or an officer, which means that he knows the circumstances in which he lives and works and which are very specific and can have a significant impact not only on the psychological preparedness but also on the overall health condition of that person. Therefore, in all countries of the world, this primary health care is precisely a specific military, and these amendments and additions to the Armed Forces Act are regulated in the Croatian Army as well. Of course, the observation may be that the constitutional right of choice, the choice of doctor, is constrained. But, of course, they have all the rights if it is the interest of the state and certain restrictions as here, but the legislator guarantees the same quality and equal level of health care to civil society. Therefore, because of the narrowing down of this right, a military person will not suffer negatives in the preservation of his health. I would also say a peacetime integrated military-civilist system when assessing the ability to introduce myself because it is used by civilian experts, specialists in the medical work that give their opinion. They are in fact establishing the working capacity of a future active military person by making the commission, the Health Commission of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia a solution and overseeing the work of such a doctor medical professional. It's an excellent cooperation of the civil and military health sector and it's actually headed towards those best experiences we had in the Homeland War when we embodyed an integrated civil-military or military-civil health system. And maybe here is the time and opportunity to say that we should now take another step and extend that integrated system to the level of specialist healthcare. What's this about? In the Homeland War, a military part of the Sanitation took over from the first password to the final disposal of the wounded. The civilian section took over for two reasons. First, because it has a large, sufficient number of quality specialists and specialist institutions, polyclinic and hospital and second because it is absolutely uneconomical and professional and medically unwarranted to perfect military specialists for the number of conditions the Croatian Army will have in the following conditions. For this reason, we have already used the war for military use by existing civilian specialists who, of course, had to comply with certain military rules in their role and then established a system so that this could continue in a peaceful period, and then it was envisaged in the programme that the Ministry of Defence should also be trained by specialists, but for specific military needs. But they would not work in some isolated institutions, but would work within existing civil hospitals, civil health institutions in a way that when they do not have a military patient working with civilians and thus maintain their professional and scientific condition. And when an active military person comes, then he's absolutely in charge of her review for two reasons. P First because he is currently specialised in the specific conditions in which he lives and works under his specialization, the medical branches in which a military person lives and works on the one hand and on the other hand, which includes a particular regime and, if he works in a civil institution, includes a particular defence ministry regime that controls his professional training and, of course, his organisational involvement in the treatment of military persons. Perhaps in one of the following changes one might think that this kind of good, quality cooperation continues and in this specialist area, so I took advantage of this moment to say so. Why do I advocate this whole system, because we're too small a country for separate systems? Absolutely unquality would have turned out to be ineffective and the experience of the Homeland War is such as to show that the Croatian integrated health system has won according to objective, world scientific standards absolutely the best results in the 20th century wars. In fact, such an integral system had one whole six deaths among our wounded. Which means hundreds of wounded died one in six. Such information and knowledge of this was a significant incentive of course for our defenders, and we too are proud of the service, medical service and civil and military service that has won such success in this cooperation, and our peaceful, military-civil health system should be built on these foundations. What I would say in the end is that it is necessary to pay particular attention to the incentives to join the professional army, that these incentives must be such as to guarantee quality life during the service in the work composition, to provide not only good material conditions, but also conditions of development for further, further transition one day to civil service. So it should be possible in the future, and this law has started a number of incentives for soldiers, officers and officers. Perhaps one day with a special law that would really put the service in the Croatian Army at the highest level of social responsibility because the Croatian Army deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86722	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš. He's not in the hall. Tomislav Culjak. He's not in the hall. They're losing the right to disintegrate. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlović. He's not in his place? Is he coming?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86723	... Mr. Minister. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] You know, I actually answered to discuss just one question for me that should be at the centre of attention a little bit more. Of course, I have a few more questions that I'll be able to mention, but they're not as important as I think these questions are important which I would like to say. It's actually a problem of senior and first-degree military court. First, in my court, it would be very difficult to accept the concept that members of the first-degree military court appoint and resolve, so appoint and resolve as an act, the head of the Chief of Staff, and the senior military constipation court appoints and resolves the defence minister. I think there should be a little more space for influence here if I can and control the policy, and in that respect, I'm going to do it in the first degree if I want to separate already is not necessarily necessary. But if you want to let it be done by the defence minister in the first degree, and in the second degree, the President of the Republic or even we go to that variant to put amongsts not to be commander-in-chief, then let the Government of the Republic of Croatia do. Why am I saying that? Because the Chief of Staff is an active military person. At a given moment, he may also appear before this court of law. The second question is not good, with all that he would appoint to state in Article 84 of this Regulation, that the Chief of Staff or the person under his authority oversees the timeliness and regularity of the tasks and work of the first-degree military courts. It's not working! It's not working! How will an active person now monitor and control the orderly conduct of the work and work of first-degree military courts? That is why I think it is necessary to separate it, and besides that control should be introduced into both the first and second stages. I agree! I'm the only one who thinks we should cut down on the experience we have right now in the regular judiciary, in the ordinary judicial authority. It is an internal judicial inspection, a judicial inspector who will then control the first and second stages, who will then control whether they are obsolete or not. Because, look, here, the deadlines of antiquity are shortened, you know, for three months, six months, and then there's the possibility of a flat-rate compensation, etc. Look, I know that there are often justified reasons to do this, but it shouldn't just leave it without this extra control and supervision, and that's why I think this Article 29, 30, 31 should be considered for sure again before we decide whether or not to sort this area out by the end. Now a few things I said if I got there. One of these is in Article 19, where Article 70 is amended, where it is said that a tight procedure, a major error, is triggered by the conclusion being made. You know, the Constitutional Court has decided in its own time what the conclusion is. And he took the view that the conclusion wasn't actually a legal act. He's an expression of the will of some, that's correct. But the question arises whether a party being accused can complain at the initiation of the proceedings. For example, you have experience in criminal proceedings that of course by making a solution, but here is a solution, open investigation begins a procedure which can also be challenged in the appeal procedure. The question arises whether if there is an obvious attempt to do so by saying to manipulate someone or lead to an unequal position not because they will be punished, he will be released in a strict procedure, but over time he will miss out on some action, opportunity or chance why he could not have invested some legal remedy in such a situation to try to stop the procedure and prove that it does not stand immediately. Because if this were to happen then the situation should be considered so that the administrative procedure actually opens up the possibility from its opening that all actions should be published, as should in the administrative act, through an administrative individual act, i.e. by means of an open-ended procedure, and that a complaint can then be made to that question. The second thing I wanted to point out, I'm glad, although there was more space here than in most of our other laws that we pass when it comes to the state administration that the legislator is when it comes to the health commission, so the higher health authority... in the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's very good. In doing so, he respected Article 18. The constitution to make an appeal possible and that what it says there can only be extremely addressed to the Administrative Dispute. In fact, he left that exception for some other quite, quite open-minded question. But then I don't understand anything else. It was introduced here on the principle of subordination that the defence minister sets out the criteria and way of determining health skills for the military service and setting up a work cycle and the composition of health commissions. You know, that can prescribe establishment, part-round work, composition, etc. I'm doing it, I'm doing it. But I'm not going to you know that you could prescribe criteria, ways to determine health skills. It's still, in my opinion, I don't know, but I think it's still in the medical profession. That medics should do so, so in this respect, if, if, if it must already be because of this subordination that such an act is brought by a defence minister, then at least have a previous opinion or consent from the Ministry of Health, at least that. Because it just doesn't work, you know. When you say you will prescribe a way of determining health skills, the other thing is that you prescribe what health conditions a person must meet in order to be able to carry out this and that military service that is potentially received and taken, it is something else, but that in ways of determining it is actually going into the profession, in the profession, and in this respect it is actually asking a serious question whether it can or might not go. Of course, it is quite interesting and the provision of a new Article 7 where paragraph 31 is amended where this is said to be the case, the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may, exceptionally under the special approval of the Minister of Defence, be allowed to work with another legal or natural person if this is not contrary to the interests of the service. You see, I think this service's interests are too wide-ranging. It's military personnel. It is a matter of military persons, persons in employment, and it would be very difficult to accept that other legal and physical persons other than military employment can be employed with the permission of the minister without laying down minimum legal conditions when the minister can do so. I'll tell you why. It is difficult, on our occasions when it is necessary for people to reach additional funds, unfortunately our salaries are not such that they can provide an average standard of average citizen in Europe and his family, to prevent people from making such demands. The minister will give in. The question will be asked whether this can then lead to the challenge of a dam, an avalanche that can lead to reputation, that is, humiliation or reduction of the reputation of active military personnel. It is even more interesting to add, after paragraph 2, a new paragraph 3 which would practically enable military or military officials to be a member of the Supervisory Board in commercial societies of a special state. You see, I object otherwise that state officials may also be members of the Supervisory Board, it is generally known, no matter what the law still allows, but without compensation. And in this segment, I believe that military or military officials should be allowed to do so, but you know in those commercial, very precise, those companies that, among other things, in their production cycle, or in their production activities, have special purposes for the needs of the military. Not that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. No, it's just that it's very precise, that it's arranged, that it's in that segment, it's primarily about professional people, etc. And then I think that's exactly the kind of situation we could allow. Because it's hard to avoid these people at the time, you're indicated here, you know that according to the Law of Conflict of Interest, so it would turn out like they wouldn't have the right to a reward. I don't think in such a situation they could have the right to compensation. Because their expertise and ability can be extremely useful to this company. And in that respect, I don't think that's the biggest problem, the fee. But I think it's important to tie it to an activity that is related to the defence-security system. In addition, it is somehow in line with the rules applicable in the NATO Alliance and the Alliance, and in the United States Army. Thank you very much. Here are these few remarks. I hope it'll be useful to make a final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86724	Thank you. In conclusion, Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86725	Very short. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. And in this law, thank you for supporting the debate in his first reading. But a few short answers. In other legal persons because of the need for service. We have a company, a concrete example, an armored infantry vehicle is currently in the phase of the strategy partner selection process, will work in a company and we need to enable an instrument for the Ministry of Defence to have expert supervision there. Not only through membership in the Supervisory Board, but even by including in the manufacturing process. It is a highly valuable project of strategic equipment of the Croatian Land Army or the Armed Forces as a whole and we wanted to open this up. After all, we had a dilemma about making it possible for active military personnel to do so at all. I agree, perhaps, to be more specific and to tie to the defense system, yes, but the intensity was that. We are entering some projects where it is not enough just to read the financial report and not have an insight, and these are companies where the Republic of Croatia is either a majority or an exclusive owner, to ensure the legal possibility that... means the profession controls the course of the production process. It was a wish for appointments and members of military court-supervised courts to ensure availability, to ensure that two levels of decision were made. We will carefully read the proposed proposal from the phonogram and think about it. The Honorable representative Hebrang spoke of the concept of military-civil health. In primary health care, yes, in a special health care contract. It's a question we're dealing with right now, we're working out a contract between the Ministry of Defense and the hospitals. Active military personnel, specialized doctors are active military personnel, but on the basis of the contract and the basis of the existing Service Act, we refer them to hospital work. They are further professionally perfected according to the criteria of the medical profession, according to the rules of the Croatian Medical Chamber, and in case of the need of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army withdraws them to work in units. This relationship was not considered necessary by law because it was a direct contractual relationship between the hospital to which he was referred and the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, but believe us, we already have several contracts where we apply and this model works, it proved to be good and the same as we do not need a special military school because specialist schools are the most expensive forms of schooling so the specialist military hospital would be a very expensive system of achieving health care and there is no need for an end to quality Croatian hospitals. Thank you for your support, we will read the phonogram and see what is acceptable from the proposals and remarks presented and prepare for another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86726	Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86727	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I give the vote the conclusion: the proposal for this Law is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86728	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You took the materials into the boxes. When making this decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Article 155, 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Defence Minister, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86729	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. With its active participation in peacekeeping operations, the Republic of Croatia makes a significant contribution to the bid for a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, in particular achieving its strategic goal of joining NATO and the European Union and ultimately fulfilling its commitment to a sovereign and responsible state to establish, to help establish international peace and security worldwide. At present, we have 36 members of the Armed Forces in 9 peacekeeping missions, 4 military observers in Ethiopia and Eritrea, 7 military observers in India and Pakistan, 6 military observers in the Western Sahara, 3 military officers in Liberia, 3 command officers in Haiti, 3 military observers in the coast of Belarus, 4 military observers in Cyprus, 2 military observers in Georgia and 5 headquarters officers in Sudan. We propose that the Croatian Parliament make a decision to refer members of the Croatian Armed Forces to the UN Peace Missions with the possibility of rotating until 31 December 2008 and as follows. The UN International Peace Mission in Nepal up to 5 members, in Lebanon up to 6 members, in Sierra Leone up to 2 members, in Burundi up to 2 members and in Afghanistan up to 2 members. I especially note that it is not an ISAF international peace mission, but is a special peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan, and we propose up to 2 members. A little something about every single peace mission. United Nations Peace Mission in Nepal, UNMIN. The UN Security Council Resolution 1740 of January 2007 established this peacekeeping mission in Nepal. This is a limited focus and duration mission whose mandate is to monitor and assist in the implementation of the arms settlement arrangements, monitor the implementation of the truce and technical assistance and control of the implementation of the elections to be held during 2007. In addition to this, UNMIN's tasks will be close co-operation with UN development and humanitarian agencies already present on the ground. The mission will act as a combined military-civil observer mission, and military observers will not wear uniforms but will act in civilian clothing on which UN markings will be placed. The call to the Republic of Croatia to direct military observers to this mission is assessed by the recognition of the Croatian engagement in UN peacekeeping missions so far and we propose to refer up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, UNIFIL. The Lebanese Government adopted Security Council Resolution 1701 on 12 August 2006 and a ceasefire took place on 14 August 2006. Several minor ceasefire violations were reported after the resolution, but a mostly respected ceasefire was observed. According to available information, the UNIFIL Peace Mission currently numbers 12,000 167 soldiers, most of whom are ground forces. UNIFIL forces are deployed in the area between the Litani River and the blue line. We propose to include up to 6 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UNIFIL Peace Mission, for which, through the UN Peace Operation Department in the Republic of Croatia, a call for the sending of one staff officer to the UNIFIL Mission Commander for the time being, would be left to a more flexible solution to the UN's additional requirements. United Nations peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone, UNIOSIL. The UN Security Council established a monitoring mission in Sierra Leone in June 98 with the task of monitoring and providing advice on the implementation of disarmament and the formation of national security forces. The Security Council adopted Resolution 1270 establishing a new UNPSIL mission with the basic task of helping the Sieraleone Government implement the provisions of the Loma Peace Agreement. Following the assessment that the situation in Sierraleone is calm and stable, the mission was shut down on December 31st, 2005. The UNPSIL has completed most of the tasks given to it by the Security Council. He assisted in the return of more than half a million refugees. He helped the government restore authority and establish its offices. Thousands of police officers were trained and restored and built several dozen police stations. The UN Security Council launched a new UNIOSIL Peace Mission by adopting UN Security Council Resolution 1620 2005 was founded on 1 January 2006. The mission's mandate is to help the government of Sierra Leone strengthen peace and build state institutions, ensure the rule of law, respect for human rights, build the security sector and help, improve transparency and maintain free fair elections during 2007. The Republic of Croatia has been invited to nominate for now one liaison officer in a free city. The task of the liaison officer acting under the Civil Police and Military Assistance Department would be to provide advice, i.e. to report to the head of the office on security issues, to monitor the security situation, to maintain links with local security forces and other actors such as the special court for Sierra Leone and the international, military and training team. This mission would be a valuable source of experience and knowledge for Croatian officers to participate in peace operations. Participation in this mission would contribute to the efforts of the Republic of Croatia to achieve... UN Security Council membership, 2008/2009 mandate A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The peace mission of the United Nations to Burundi, Binup, in accordance with Security Council Resolution 17, 19, was founded by the UN Integration Office in Burundi, which began on 1 January 2007. The Office's task is to support the Government of Burundi in its efforts to ensure sustainable peace, stability and development, as well as in its support and efforts in the field of security, human rights insurance and the implementation of judicial reforms. The UN Peace Operation Department has called on the Republic of Croatia to nominate an officer in the rank of Major to serve as military adviser in the military-indicator department of the mission. The participation of members of the armed forces would be particularly useful in the context of the membership of the Republic of Croatia for the construction of peace on which the agenda is located in Burundi. The peace mission of the United Nations to help Afghanistan UNAM, the UNAM mission has been founded by Security Council Resolution 14.01 since 28 March 2002 with the mandate of providing support for reconstruction and national reconciliation processes. The mission is highly civil, non-military, the mandate of the UNAMA mission includes 6 main factors, ensuring strategic advice related to the peace process, ensuring the principles of good governance, supporting the government of Afghanistan, promoting human rights, ensuring technical support, continuing the management of UN reconstruction activities, reconstruction, development in co-operation with authorities. The main office is located in Kabul, and eight regional offices and several departments have been deployed throughout Afghanistan. In addition, two liaison offices are active, one of which is located in Islamabad and the other in Tehran. The objective of the mission is to establish and develop strong and sustainable institutions in Afghanistan, and the ultimate goal is to ensure that these institutions can carry out their assigned tasks independently. The priorities of the UNAM mission include strengthening Afghan institutions and building national administrative capacities at all levels, including the development of institutions of good rule of law and legal order and security. The UN Department of Pensions has called on the Republic of Croatia to send an officer to act as colonel on duty in the mission. The officer was in charge of a military advisory department whose task was to support the implementation of security sector reforms, the building of security capacities and trust and cooperation between Afghan and international security forces and UNAME. The military advisor's duty is to provide expert advice and appropriate analysis on military matters and to provide proactive support to the Government of Afghanistan and international agencies acting under the mandate of the UNAM mission through monitoring, reporting, giving advice and mentoring. The overall situation in Afghanistan reflects exclusively on the security situation in the Kabul area because of the fact that the main military facilities and facilities and bodies of the Afghan government and international organisations are concentrated in the capital. It is proposed to this decision authorising the Government to establish for each rotation the duration of rotation, number and organisational structure of members of the armed forces and undertake the Ministry of Defence to report to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament on the rotation carried out after each rotation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86730	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Honorable Representative Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86731	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 94th session on 28 March 2007 discussed the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Following the opening presentation of the Government's representatives, the Committee supported the position expressed by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and assessed that the deployment of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to the pensions of the mission was necessary and decided to participate members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace missions in the text as proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86732	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86733	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Republic of Croatia fully shares the values on which the North Atlantic Union and the European Union and the United Nations are resting and is committed to further fostering the development of peace, democracy, freedom and protection of human rights and economic stability. The Republic of Croatia has passed a transformation from the recipient country to a country that contributes actively to the development of peace, stability and security. The Republic of Croatia participates in the United Nations peacekeeping missions, has been elected to the UN Peace Building Commission's organisational committee and has run for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council between 2008 and 2009. Participation in peacekeeping missions is listed in the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy as one of the ways in which Croatia contributes to peace and security in the world and one of the partner objectives of the Republic of Croatia as part of the implementation of the NATO accession process through the entry into the map process. Armed forces will soon expand the peacekeeping engagement to another five UN missions. It is proposed to refer members of the Croatian military to the UN operation in Nepal, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Burundi and Afghanistan and to up to 17 members. To date, 36 members of the armed forces have been engaged in operations of this type. More specifically, in Ethiopia and Eritrea on the UNE mission there are 4 Croatian military observers, in India and Pakistan we have 7.6 of our swimmers working in the Western Sahara as part of the MINURSO operation, 3 are Croatian headquarters officers in Liberia, 2 in Haiti, and 3 observers participate in the mission in the Coast of Endurity. Croatia has its peacemakers in Cyprus, 4 observers in the UNICIP mission, in Georgia 2 observers and in Sudan where UNMIS operates 5 of our headquarters officers. In a proposal for this new decision, I would point out that participation in UN international peace operations is in line with Croatia's strategic commitment, which places our country among the responsible members of the international community, or among the countries ready to take over part of the burden of general security. A new mission in Nepal was set up at the end of January this year. The duration is limited and the mandate is to monitor and assist the implementation of the arms handover arrangements and to conduct the elections that should be held in the country during this year. The mission, as the minister said, will act as a combined civilian military surveillance operation, and military observers will not wear uniforms but civilian clothing with UN special markings. What worries most about this mission in my view is a poorly organised primary medical care which is why there are chronic and infectious diseases in Nepal in the local population. On the way to the UN Peace Operation Department, Croatia also received an invitation to join operations... in Lebanon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also proposed that our 6 members of the Croatian Army participate in this operation where 12 thousand 167 soldiers participate today. Also, according to this proposal for a decision, the return of our peacemakers to Sierra Leone is very likely, the country in which we first directed our peace observers in 1999. However, the mission was shut down in 2005. But there the UN has established a new operation, and the main task is to help strengthen peace, build state institutions and conduct elections. Also in Burundi is a mission of a newer date and was also established on January 1st this year. And the UN office has already called on Croatia to nominate one major for military adviser duty. Finally, in Afghanistan, the UN's assistance operation for the UNAM country is in place and is tasked with ensuring support for national reconciliation processes. Croatia has also been called here to direct an officer to the mission, in the act of a colonel acting as military adviser. I mentioned those new missions were coming. The UN needs professional units and Croatia has them and this is very important for participation. The decision to participate in UN operations is a national decision made by the Croatian authorities, but I am sure that the UN welcomes such decisions. And in conclusion, I'd like to mention that on the occasion of his visit to the Indian brigade... Deputy Head of TESA who was staying in Croatia mentioned, I had the opportunity to visit a number of missions and talk to people on the ground as well as senior officers coming to New York. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can safely tell you that the professional reputation of Croatian soldiers is very high. I think there's not one mission, not one opinion that says otherwise. Your soldiers can be trusted in any task. I think this is enough reason to support this decision and the Croatian Democratic Community will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86734	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86735	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Since this material is fully exhaustive and very good-qualityly explained by the proposal for this decision, let me just say a few words. First, I will support the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Secondly, the essential quality of this decision which can motivate us to support it is the fact that, by this decision, parts or individual members of our Armed Forces are sent to peacekeeping missions in order to maintain peace and not to establish peace. This means that they are actually creating a condition for the legal and legitimate civil authorities elected by the peoples and citizens in those countries of Nepal, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Burundi and Afghanistan, they are practically given the opportunity and the chance to not only build themselves up but also do their job and not be distracted from the various forms of content and interference and harassment that can be treated and as forms of terrorist action. Third thing I'd like to point out. That's exactly what my colleague, Plesha, said on behalf of the HDZ Club. Not only does the Republic of Croatia have experience, it also has a firm will to help maintain the peace, stability and security in the world because such peace and stability and security in the world is actually a prerequisite for overall progress, but it is also a guarantee and a guarantee that it will be in our spaces, but also for the other reason. We had experience when we came to the situation that peace, security, stability, territorial integrity and our sovereignty were threatened and when unselfish representatives of the international community or individual governments and states and peoples actually helped not only their civil, humanitarian and military components to maintain peace, to establish peace and ultimately enable Croatian authorities and military authorities to establish full territorial integrity, sovereignty over their territory. And ultimately establish the rule of law and the legal order of his country and the legally elected... in that respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have this experience. We also have the feeling and need to understand how important it is to help others to maintain peace at some point, that at some point the chance of peace, security, stability and development is to actually prevent or advance possible and further armed conflicts and war conflicts. For all these reasons, this decision should be supported, and not only because it is a relatively small number of our soldiers, but because it will also enable our soldiers or employees there to acquire new knowledge and experience, transfer to our country, and thus enable us through another step to meet the requirements and standards that will bring our country closer to compatible points to be equal with all those other members, the association that we seek, which we want to enter from partnership for peace and through the security and stability programme all the way to NATO alliance and ultimately to the European Union, and in many other associations we already have. For all these reasons, I will vote and support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86736	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86737	Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a late vote on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the UN peacekeeping missions, which requires 102 votes. We have here now, it's for those peace missions, where are they? This is a proposal for a decision that, on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the United Nations peacekeeping missions: Armed Forces members are assigned to peacekeeping missions with the possibility of rotation until 31 December 2008 in Nepal up to 5 members, in Lebanon up to 6 members, in Sierra Leone up to 2 members, in Burundi and in Afghanistan up to 2 members. They've been on these United Nations missions before. They were already members of the armed forces, so 11, 13, 15, 17. There's 17 of them, it needs 102 votes. If we don't fail that decision do we, will it be from those 102 votes? Then let's vote for that decision. Let's get on with it. The result? 106 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. I suppose the decision was made in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86738	Let's move on to the next one. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Administration System Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 658 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary of the Central State Office Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86739	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian government continues its legislative initiative towards reforming state administration, professionalisation and depoliticalisation. Therefore, in this law, it proposes to establish a system that was originally established by the Law on State Servants and then through a series of laws concerning this matter from conflict of interest, the handover of authorities to the Law on State Officials has carried out the professionalisation and depolitisation of certain positions in the State Administration in such a way that current posts have become official posts, which are former assistant ministers, secretaries of the Ministry of State, Deputy State Secretary of State and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administrations. In addition to this law, we are installing these places and the system as official jobs that will be filled with the basis of a public tender and we are more detailedly editing the management models of central state offices. In fact, these four central state offices have proved to be effective organisations, as effective state administration bodies with a rank smaller than the ministry, and we think that they should also be installed in the system of state administration, especially in their management. Transitional provisions are also important. Once again, in order to avoid confusion, I will not know once again what time the current assistant ministers, current secretaries of the ministries, current deputy state secretary of the central state office, and current deputy and assistant directors of state administration organisations will, after the elections have been held and after the formation of the new government, submit a mandate at their disposal and that a public tender will then be carried out to fill those jobs under the rules of the Law on State Employees. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this is one of the last laws that governs this matter and thus we have created assumptions that all the laws in Croatia comply with the Law on Civil Servants and with the announced and now implemented by depolitisation and professionalisation of high positions in the state service. We ask that this law be considered and adopted and for a second reading we will accept any useful suggestions and comments made in this reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86740	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86741	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, as well as to be reasoned and well-supplied, we think that there is a certain discrepancy in the very explanation and announced intensity that we certainly welcome because there is no really fast, efficient and efficient administration without depolitisation. So every effort and engagement in this regard changes to the law of normatives and even more to create a political general climate that we certainly welcome. However, whether these changes and at least in the way they are set, are scholarshipd to contribute. We have now finally received what was constantly problematic, so that the ministerial assistants themselves who came by political decision and who were not at all reluctant. Thus, it is by amending the law that they are suddenly transformed into civil servants, so the government officials become experts in this way, and they have come a political way. So, in some ways, we are now sorting out this dilemma through the provision of Article 15, or the very argument that this will happen after the election. However, the deadlines themselves when this will happen and within what time period I think it should be specified precisely because it is a very important and sensitive issue. However, there remains a dilemma which is reflected in the provisions of Article 2 of the amendments, or by supplementing Article 6, by adding a new Article 6a. that such civil servants will continue to appoint and resolve the Government. True, here it is defined both in the manner and in the procedure of the Law on civil servants. We'll get something that hasn't happened yet. Namely, and leaves and opens up a new legal path. In fact, the government has the right to make decisions by the very act of government. In that sense, these were neither administrative acts nor in such a way could be reacted under the General Administrative Procedure Act, according to the ZUP or the ZUS, although some dissatisfactions were therefore because they were not appointed as assistants, we also had such bizarreities back several years because they were not appointed as assistants, they were initiating administrative disputes, even addressed to the Constitutional Court. Of course, the Administrative Court, as well as the Constitutional Court, stands at this very point of view, that such acts should be distinguished from the administrative act from the act of government. Of course, the government has the right to adopt such acts. But if we now give this amendment to the law to the Government that it is such acts that are not an act of conduct that we at least confuse both addressees and addressees. What is the government supposed to do about it? True, the question arises that these people still need to be appointed. Whether to give it to a certain person, or who will, because they are just handling it. So, that opens up the dilemma of whether we've well fashioned that administrative pyramid of ours and the administrative government. Because you should, I understand it, you should have gotten out of it somehow. But the government will find itself in one impossible situation, and it disturbs the entire and existing system. The truth is, it can be done with some kind of existing law and later created practice that we will also insert, add to the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court and new obligations to therefore create and supplement or deal with such a legal decision. The truth doesn't come to mind how to subsidize both under the legal possibilities and existing laws, and otherwise the systems of our state administration and find another solution. But I don't think this is a good solution in any way for this reason, for a principled and well-founded reason. You can imagine, the truth is that this number is limited, by these civil servants who will appear. But you should make an extra effort to get out of this kind of trouble. We're all complicated, so there isn't one of us here who hasn't said for once in his performances that we need a small and efficient state administration to be and often say that we need a small one to be effective. She needs to be so effective. Now the size and volume. But here's what you see, and with this bill of law, we get new people. We're getting deputy secretary of state, and that's how we're actually stockpiling up again, and that's how we're already a massive state apparatus. I don't know if it's really necessary this way since we turned these assistants, so turn them into state officials and the leaders. Of course, the question is that they should have some kind of helper. But the fact is the same. So, at the same time as we're saying we're still increasing the state's apparatus. This provision in Article 7 which states that central government offices will be set up to carry out public administration operations in one or more administrative areas is certainly to be welcomed because it speaks of exactly one flexibility of business. Now which are of particular importance to the more effective work of the government? It opens up different dilemmas and different arbitraryities that I think should be solved not by some kind of legal act or by itself, or by the state administration itself that so freely, and only on the basis of the legal possibility of deciding on it, but in any case it seems to me that we should have one legal restriction and one norm, so that these ways wouldn't be the possibility of someone's getting caught because we need people somewhere, and then we'll form a place to do special jobs. That's what we think might make government work more effective. We know from life, from the practice that many authorities in the past and present have used just such or similar arrangements to then accommodate people. It is something that causes the sights of ordinary citizens, with all the public and I think if it is, and the truth is that it can show exactly the need for such an institute which is therefore proposed in Article 7 but then it certainly needs to be standardized, or better determined when these special conditions occur which then impose such a single structure so that the work of the Government is as effective as possible. Here's the dilemma in these short changes the SDP club has. Therefore, we suggest that they be given an answer so that they can have their own determination whether or not to support such changes. But in any case, the SDP stands in that position and supports every momentum and intention to make the state administration more effective and depolitic. It is only possible to do so if we have objective criteria, to the extreme objectively objectively to permanently eliminate complaints that they are acting on political intentions and even when they may not exist. But then why don't you burden yourself with the allegations of the law. Often our laws are overcrowded, but where we need normation there's no fear of over-nodging. I think then the transparency of conduct, but also some visions or any objections in this sense, will be removed politically. All of this is to be contained in the laws of this kind, this type. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86742	The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86743	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Administration System. This proposal, as part of the process of reforming state administration and harmonising with European Union standards, proposes depoliticalisation in the state service management system. It is proposed to amend the status of assistant ministers, ministry secretary of state secretary of central state offices, and Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administrative Organizations in a way that determines the status of civil servant for those positions instead of the current state official status. These proposed changes translate the political positions so far into administrative positions thus ensuring greater expertise and professionalisation of the state administration, but as the depolitisation of the state administration has already been said. In addition, a change in the former name of Assistant Minister named Director is proposed. So ministers, state secretaries of central state offices, state secretaries in ministries and directors of state administration organisations remain officials. They come and go with parliamentary elections. And the directors of the Ministry of State, so far the assistant ministers, the secretary of the ministry, the deputy secretary of state of central state offices, deputy directors and assistant directors of state administration organisations and the head of the Office of State Administration in units of the district or regional self-government are state officials and they are therefore professionals who guarantee the continuity of the profession. State officials shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia but on the basis of an earlier public tender in a manner and in a procedure laid down in the Law on State Servants. In the transitional and final provisions of this Bill, it is said that the authorities of the State Administration are obliged to open a tender for the jobs of directors at the Ministry and this one, not to list them again within the prescribed law and date of appointment to the new management post but to officially resolve former ministerial assistants, ministry secretaries, deputy state secretary and assistant directors of state administration organisations. I think it is worth mentioning further regulation of the issue of harmonisation with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities on the representation of members of national minorities in state administration bodies, where the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration further stresses that members of national minorities have the right to represent themselves in the central authorities of the state administration in proportion to their participation in the overall participation in the population at Croatian level. At the level of local self-government or regional self-government according to its participation in the structure of the population of the county concerned. Here are some basic elements of this bill and, as the Secretary of State of the Club said in the explanation, these are arguments and why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86744	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86745	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's about the law on the achievement of conjecture, and so it says in the reasoning of the Law. Supposedly why? First assumptions for compliance with European Union standards, I quote from the reasons. I'm a little confused that the law in that case isn't P.Z.E. But I guess he's not all like that. I would just like to say that it is unnecessary to always call for compliance with the standards of the European Union. I guess we're doing something for ourselves. I guess this is one of those steps that we're doing primarily for ourselves so that the state administration can function the way we want it to, and we need it to be consistent with something or not. Second, the second assumption that needs to be realized is the depoliticalization of the state administration. Of course, that's the goal all the authorities and all the governments have been talking about so far. Everyone swore here from today on out and from us on board will be professional. That's where we're going to draw the line, and behind that line, we're not going to root out party cheers anymore. We're not going to cheer politically. Now we're going to act strictly professionally. It should be acknowledged that this way is such a elaborate way of reforming the state administration is one of the possible ways that this could really happen. So at one point draw the line under the highest state officials and say this downstairs are officials. Assuming, of course, those who came as officials don't become officials. To go to the competition, to choose them or others at the moment doesn't matter, but by the fact that they've found themselves in the system of administration, the assistant ministers, I'm talking about them primarily, about them here, and they don't become officials. Otherwise, we know well how this has been done so far at the state level, and even more so how it has been done at the local level where local leaders in the marches change until the head of the shift in kindergartens, and then it becomes a political function. Things are getting to the point of being untasteful. How will it be after this law is passed? In Article 1, who are these government officials since the adoption of this law? Ministers, state secretaries of central state offices, state secretaries in ministries and directors of state administration organisations. They are officials of the Republic of Croatia. The rest of you, everyone else will be officers. They are directors of the ministry, secretaries of the ministries, deputy state secretaries of central state offices and so on. In Article 2(2) of the Amending and Article 6a of the new law. It's clear that it was meant to draw that line once. It is clear that it should also be ensured that people who have come as likes to power, which, in which there is no harm. I don't speak this expression to a sub-topic pejoratically. The government simply has the power, has the right to bring in its own people with whom it will function in the system. But so people who have come as likers to get a chance to prove themselves as experts equally with all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who meet the legal requirements for a particular job. I'm a little confused, and we haven't been able to quite reveal at the HNS Club how the appointment procedure, for example, in article 5 of the Secretary-General, in Article 6 of the Assistant Minister who is no longer who is the director and deputy director of what these people will be named. Namely, they become civil servants, for them a public tender is being opened. All right, according to the criteria established by some interior act of the ministry, people report to the competition. Who decides on this contest? In fact, if the Government decides again on this contest, regardless of the objectivity of the criteria, regardless of the good acts we can write such or such if the Government will again decide on who our top civil servants will be, they can not be other than political appointments and appointed by the criteria that they will try to bypass their expertise in any way. Like the situation in setting up directors, let's say city firms in cities after the elections. Of course, people meet the conditions, of course they've finished colleges or what they already say in the statutes of these companies, but it's also of course it's named from a party that won power. Well, we can afford that on a local level. And then it happens that there's a company where there's 5.6 executives, because the contract is concluded so he can't be fired but remains a company employee, so there's almost no one else in the company but a director. We won't even be able to afford it at the state level. The matter will again become equally inefficient if we do not have a) absolutely objective criteria and methods of procedures in which to appoint top state officials. And b) if we do not exclude politics from this decision, i.e. Government. All in all, it may be possible to pull the line between politics and professionalism right now. It may also be possible to withdraw at this level where this government proposes it. Maybe a little more, maybe a little lower. Of course, the arguments could be found for one, the other, and the third solution. But I would like to warn once again of the obligation to act, whether this law or any future implementing act is about this law, installing not only criteria but also the methodology of differentiating similarity and expertise. If the Government gives us assurances that this methodology will be incorporated into acts that will be implemented by the selection of these top civil servants, then this proposal can be trusted, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86746	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86747	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've been discussing amendments and additions to the State Administration System Act for a long time. And if we continue to make progress at this pace in norming what will not be affected by the one who comes to power even a little bit more that we will not be able to come to power at all. Because you won't actually have anything to change. We just need to agree to change ministers, and then we'll obviously be put into a situation that doesn't even need to go to elections. What do we need choices for? We're going to have a nice standard, so it's going to be beautifully written in the rules, and obviously, NGOs or someone on the outside are going to determine how we're going to set out the criteria for selecting those high or high-ranking civil servants. I think it's a big exaggeration. Because it's quite clear we can call the assistant minister and the principal, we can call him in some other way, it's completely irrelevant. But the content of each government remains in nature the same. The goal is for the authorities to try to implement their own projects, programmes, rule the country in a way that the power that comes to power thinks so. And I don't think at all that professionalism should be put out. What's more, it needs to be stepped up. Professionality, you need to bring her into line with professionalism. The morale and way of ruling is, of course, judgment for successful conduct. But, of course, all of this is estimated by citizens who are watching, evaluating and eventually when the time comes for this election is worth it. So, naturally, I agree that it is a good thing that certain officials who are now officials can also be called by a different name, that they should not be officials but be top officials who will do their jobs. But I think it's a little bit hypocritical right now to say that we're going to create such a legal system in which no one is simply going to leave with a change of government. You're waiting, in America, for a great composition that can be connected to the change of administration from Los Angeles to Chicago. Go away. I don't know why, but he's leaving. And now I don't know why it's trying to create an impression that everything should be so standardized that simply certain criteria should represent the only valuable aspects of individual officials or individuals who will become high officials. I don't know if that's exactly how it is and if it's even possible in practice to achieve it. I mean, we need to be aware that not even in some democracies that have a little bit more years than us are simply such things and are not put to the end, and it's not that changes don't happen there either when there's a change of government. Therefore, I personally think and the club, above all, and in previous discussions, has advocated the norm of those relationships that are natural and that will not affect let's call it the task of every government to rule. Because they can't affect every government's mission to rule. Any norm that would be contrary would not be in the interest of either the government or the citizens. So we have no objection to this normisation and to establish quality relations when it comes to professionalism, expertise, knowledge. But we can't assume that as a collective relationship against those who will exercise authority. And I think that in that sense, we've been through one border unnecessarily, I don't think we should have entered into this precise normisation of things, because I'm afraid it can be very fast and very easy to break this thing on the head of an unrelated coma and unbound when, but we at the HSS club have always been reserved when it comes to the norm of those relationships that are in practice, and especially in rule, it's simply impossible to norm, and it's impossible to evaluate some criteria that are almost universal. For you know, man is as he is, and men make every authority. It is therefore good to establish quality relations. Perhaps that's why this law does not bear the P.Z.E. mark. means that we have entered even further than is necessary in relation to the Member States of the European Union in some normisation, even more than is necessary and I think we could have left this law behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86748	Thank you. Secretary of State Antun Palaric, do you want to... He made a wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86749	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this is a small law by the number of articles, and I will not take up your time from your well-deserved vacation, I know you are all tired, but it is crucial for the reform of the state administration, it is of paramount importance. We have all witnessed the objection of the European Union that we need to reform the state administration, the judiciary, this, this, this, this, is now no longer being talked about the reform of the state administration because we have implemented a great deal of measures and activities to improve this system in every way. And this law ends this system of professionalisation, everyone will be elected in the competition, there will be criteria set out in the Labour Classification Regulation and someone will be elected who is now acting in that capacity. I believe that many people have already become professionals, many of the former government and previous governments have been detained and a professional layer is formed and that is one big step forward. Here's a thank you to all who support this law. When asked if not the Government, the question arises and who else. I asked experts to give me solutions, European solutions, there's nothing else. What then, the minister or perhaps advisors to choose their boss, so that's out of the question and we stay with this solution. This is a European solution and thank you to everyone who has supported this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-18-0.u86750	Thank you very much. I'm closing this point. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament tomorrow, we'll just say what we're going to go with tomorrow. Point 9 is the Proposed Law on Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. We don't have a proposing tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, and we're leaving for next week. Point 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, we will do it for the same reasons on Friday, there is no proposing. The proposal for a law on audiovisual activities, tomorrow at half past two is a committee, so tomorrow we will begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Fund Act. Finally, the Final Proposal for a Law on Complementary of Trains, the addition of the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act, the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings. So this set of pension laws. ... He's going first tomorrow at 9.30 and then we'll go back to the audiovisual after that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Resume tomorrow at 9.30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of State Administration, first reading. I give the vote the conclusion: the proposal for this Law is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour and 10 against the proposed conclusion.
