ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93431	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I warmly welcome you, and I am glad that in the name of the Government, I can propose amendments and additions to the Family Law of one of those laws that we can absolutely say are relevant, that it touches all of us in all the periods of our lives, one of those laws that is extremely important and safe and according to our opinion of the law that needs to be continuously observed and continuously try to align with what is real life. That's exactly what we've done in these amendments and additions, I'm telling you this important law. What I could say in principle for the most important changes that we propose is that these are the changes that go towards achieving the well-being of every child, the welfare of children, ultimately the well-being of every family because we think and believe that we share these thoughts with you in the Croatian Parliament that family is the starting point of everything, that harbor we all return to and that all the most important things about life, all the most important things about people, all the important things about human relations, so respect, mutuality, love, all that we learn about family. What we don't learn in the family is difficult to compensate for any school, any college, any further education. That's why I think here and the state has a duty to keep an eye on the Family Law, and I say again and again to bring it into line with real life. What we have based on the amendments and additions of the Family Law that we propose is, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia makes it very clear, among other things in Article 62, that it is the obligation of the State to protect motherhood, children and youth and create both social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. And the provision of Article 63 also stipulates that the state pays particular attention to minors without parents and those who are not cared for by parents. Of course, one of the foundations of these changes and changes is the addition of the Family Law, as I also said to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I will talk very specifically about individual changes and additions that I think and personally are the most important but I would like to say that the following chapters have been amended and supplemented: Parents and children, then adoption, Care, Maintenance, Property Relations, Court Procedures, Special Procedures and Insurance. And of course, there are changes in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, what we consider to be the most important changes is therefore child restraint. I repeat once again what is related to the well-being of every child. According to these amendments and the additions we propose, the responsibility of parents to support their children as part of the content of parental care is extended, enabling a child who has received or has not received support from parents who do not live with the family community to seek compensation for the denied maintenance from the date of the initiation and the obligation, not from the moment of filing an action as prescribed. We consider this a major twist in the fight of ladies and gentlemen against irresponsible parents, against those parents who are able to invent everything in the world, who are able to lie, cheat, falsely show their incomes, falsely show their place of residence or residence all to avoid the obligation to maintain their own child or their own children, to skip that obligation and to ultimately lie to themselves. Therefore, we propose that the Court of Justice, in the case of a abstention in determining the possibility of a maintenance provider, take into account all of its assets and not only the receipts and actual opportunities of profit. So the court will take into account absolutely everything that this irresponsible parent has, what he owns and on this basis will make the final decision. And this means that the court may request data from the Ministry of Finance also means from the tax administration, from the Ministry of the Interior, from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, from the Financial Agency and other persons, and this puts out of the question the duties of certain bodies to provide such information as it has been so far. So it can no longer happen after these changes and the addition that some irresponsible parent, father in most, but there are also mothers who ride on yachts, fly, go skiing, go to winter resorts, buy pumpkins or, of course, buy jewelry, live excellently, eat in restaurants, eat lunch in restaurants, and give their own child no kuna because they say they are poor and poor and cannot meet their legal but above all and above all moral obligation. I will remind you that we and the foundations for such changes and additions have been brought to the amendments and additions of the Penal Code that we have recently amended, so we have amended Article 209 in paragraph 2 where we have deleted the fine as the lowest... A fine and instead of a fine put in prison for three months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now that the Penal Code has prescribed punishment means a violation of the duty of detention of at least 3 months in prison but up to 3 years in prison. We believe that this is a good preventive measure, first of all, because I believe everyone to whom this applies will think well before he, of course, begins to avoid his obligation of restraint. However, these two provisions mean these two changes, this in the Penal Code that I am talking about, and these changes in the Family Law, I believe that I can ultimately have a good effect in that sense that I repeat them primarily as preventive but also when it happens that an irresponsible parent who unfortunately did not deserve the name of his parents. Any one who avoids supporting his child and avoids being a parent did not deserve the parents ’ name, but unfortunately, we are faced with it. So he'll think twice before he starts avoiding his obligation. It is also given the right that, as I have said, the court in the abstention case is therefore seeking a list of his entire or her natural property condition. Then, according to these amendments and the additions of ladies and gentlemen, the minimum amount required for the monthly maintenance of a child at a certain age or age group, which is due to pay for a parent who does not live with a child, is firstly put in line with the average monthly salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. Here for 2006 it was 4000 603 kuna, and estimated for 2007 about 4000 833 kuna. Based on these starting points, we suggest that the lowest estimated amount of temporary maintenance is for a child up to 6 years 17% of the average net salary paid. For a child from 7 to 12 years of age, 20% of the average net salary paid. And for a child aged 13 to 18, 22% of the average net salary paid. I'm talking to 18 years old because the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as you know, speaks of the child being a person of 18 years. In determining the minimum amount of restraint, the court will, of course, take into account the possibility that the abstentionary will retain or must support more children than just one child. Furthermore, the introduction of the implementing provisions for forced payment of financial amounts to support the child is withdrawn from the arrangement so far and it will be possible to affect the entire monetary income only in the part corresponding to one quarter of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So I would especially like to highlight this provision, or amendments to this part of the Family Law, that it will be possible for the entire monetary income to be applied, except for a quarter of what should be left to it or to it, so that I can be absolutely just to be able to live. But I repeat once again that this obligation begins from the moment the irresponsible parent began to avoid his obligation, not from the moment he filed the suit. Then the contribution of parents living with a child is equal to the financial amount of maintenance that is due to pay for a parent who does not live with a child. The duty of the Social Care Centre shall also be determined to initiate, on behalf of the child, and to lead an appeal of restraint or to increase restraint under certain conditions and to seek the enforcement of the Child Support Decision. A way of handling the welfare centre has also been developed in order to help methods outside the court procedure to encourage parents who do not live with a child to pay child restraint and to provide for a duty, I would also like to point out in a special way, the duty of the social care centre to file criminal charges against a person who does not regularly and fully fulfil his obligation to abstain. So the Social Care Centre will be able to file criminal charges against parents who do not pay for their child's restraint. The court's duty is determined to refer the abstention obligation to the possibility of the so-called administrative tasks. It shall be arranged to give consent to the abstentionary to the payment of the payment of the authorisation officer to confiscate his salary or other permanent cash receipt and to carry out the maintenance payment on the basis of that consent and at the same time the certified document granting that consent shall have the legal power of the power of the enforcement solution. It also obliges judges to adopt a solution on a temporary basis already at the first hearing to order the defendant to pay a certain amount in the name of abstention. I would also like to point out that this proposal provided that parents and children can also enter into a containment agreement during the court proceedings, which has so far not been possible with the aim of increasing overall efficiency in court proceedings. Also, in litigation cases in order to support the opponent of a minor child or child under whom parents receive parental care, a claim may be waived, or a plea may be accepted. It shall also be specified in detail in which proceedings the Centre for Social Care shall participate in the party's capacity in which it is involved. The possibility of an extraordinary revision against a second-degree abstention decision as well as the decision-making of a deaf person, of a finding of absence, of a judgment based on recognition, and of a denunciation is also introduced. Delivery provisions have also been developed, so I suggest you take a look at that too. It is an obligation for the court to initiate, in certain alimony procedures, an official duty and to strengthen the existing obligation of the Social Care Centre to pay temporary maintenance by providing certain resources from the state budget. This has been possible so far through Article 352. Family law. However, through our proposal, this provision is now being developed and fully precise. Namely, when a maintenance undertaking fails to comply with its obligation to pay for more than 6 months, the Centre for Social Care is obliged to pay for temporary maintenance and this is precisely in accordance with the minimum amounts that I have previously spoken of means in the amount of 50% of the amount prescribed for the child's age. For a child up to 6 years 410 kuna and 80 limes, for a child from 7 to 12 years 483 kuna and 30 limes and for a child from 13 to 18 years 531 kuna and 63 lime. So 50% of the minimum amount prescribed for each child for whom alimony, i.e. maintenance must be paid. An obligation shall also be introduced to the Centre for Social Care which has paid temporary restraint to notify within 3 months of the competent State Attorney's Office which initiates the dispute against the abstentionary. It seems to me also an important proposal, an important change, so I ask you to pay attention in this regard. We predicted that in order to comply with these provisions on the payment of amounts for children whom parents do not pay, they would not meet their obligation of around 93 million a year. These are the calculations. According to current data, we'll see if that's enough, but in any case, I don't think money should be slow about it. Also, ladies and gentlemen, in the amendments to the Family Law that we are proposing, the possibility of meeting and socialising a child, or fostering a separate and ex-parent partner for the benefit of a child, and according to the European Court of Human Rights judicature, which, of course, is recognised by the effective family community. In fact, it happens very often in real life that after such communities break down, the parent defends encounters that can further traumatize the child and repeat this provision, i.e. this change and supplement goes in line with what we call experience and what we call real life. A change has also been proposed in the custody section to prescribe that the custodian cannot enter into a life-restraint contract on behalf of and at the expense of the proteges. As for the adoption of ladies and gentlemen, we have decided on a proposal that follows the European Convention on the adoption, that is, the experience of countries which, like us in many ways, have dealt with this issue with many aspects. Countries such as Austria, Slovenia, Great Britain, etc. and we have decided to propose to you these amendments and additions to abolishing the upper age limit for adoption. I repeat, in accordance with the practice of most European countries and the European Convention on adoption. In doing so, the adoption institute is once again tied to the child's well-being and we suggest that the adoptor may be at least 21 years of age. I repeat the upper limit is deleted, and of course the difference in age between the person who adopts and adopts must be 18 years. I repeat once again in line with the many suggestions we received in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, in line with the fact that we still have a lot of children waiting for a parent home. Also, many families, or many people who want to adopt a child, have failed to overcome many obstacles. In this regard, many of us lack at least what we have as a practice, or what we have as reports, so sometimes I dare tell some people that they are missing two or three months so that they can become parents and we feel that it is just and that it is in the best interest of the child that we should go again in line with the proposals of the European Convention on Perception. So the elimination of you is the most or the upper limit. If all of this results in five children finding a home, I think we've achieved the right purpose and we've reached our goal and we've made a good decision. But please, since this proposal, which the Government makes in the first reading, will also be an opportunity to discuss in the second reading, i.e. in the final draft of the law. I ask you to present all your proposals that we will, of course, consider until the final draft of the law. I thank the committees that have discussed our proposal to amend and supplement the law and have unanimously reached a decision to support the Family Law, or its amendments and amendments in this regard. I would also like to say, of course, that we also had a debate on Family Law at the Economic and Social Council session and that we also received unanimous support from our partners, so support and unions and support from employers. Here, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, these are the shortest amendments and additions to family law. I thank you for your attention, and I suggest you accept such proposed changes and complements of the Family Law, believing that this will be a good and constructive debate, of course, in which we will discuss above all the welfare of the family, the welfare of children, of course, without excessive hope, politicizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93432	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93433	It is simply not true that Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister insisted that no longer parents will be able, or an unconscious parent, to avoid paying child support by living a luxurious life because of what the courts are going to be able to ask for information from the tax administration, the police, they have been able to do so so far. But the problem is, so as far as the unregistered property is concerned, and even with this bill, it won't be possible to contain it now. It was therefore necessary to authorise the court to grant child restraint, independently of registered assets, at the discretion of the court. And it is simply incorrect that this government has introduced, that is, by amending the Penal Code, the sentence of a prison for non-restraint of a child. It's always been such a prison sentence, it's the only minimum... You were talking about this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it is equally true that the SDP proposal was rejected when we asked for an increase of three years to one year, or instead of one year to three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93434	Proposer on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93435	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Peasants' Club of Representatives, sent the amendment and addition of the Family Law to the parliamentary procedure on 13 December 2006. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported the proposal's intention to address in a good way possible shortcomings and possible open issues of practical application of certain provisions of the Family Law, as well as provisions relating to adoption, but did not support the law itself. And today, seven months later, we have a united debate on the government and our proposal to amend the law. We are pleased that the government, contrary to its written opinion on our proposal at the time, accepted the abolition of the adoption age limit. Namely, faced with the practical problems of adopters, and in accordance with the European Convention on the adoption of a child, we have proposed that the upper age limit be abolished, in the event that the adoptor was only one mate who met the terms of adoption, and the second because of age could not be adopted. We have indicated that the proposed amendment stimulates adoption in general, especially adoption of a two - parent family. According to the current law, there are absurd situations, that a child adopted by one mate, and the other cannot do so because of the age limit, lives in a family with both spouses, one of whom is his mother or dad, and the other only his aunt or uncle. Although adoption is the most qualitative form of childcare without parental care, since it gives a suitable replacement to a biological family, in such situations there have been absurdities and even tragic situations when, for example, the adoptive mother died, and her husband was unable to adopt the child she lives with for years, who she experiences as his own child, and the child experiences him as a parent. By the death of the adoptive woman, the child was formally left without a parent and taken care of by the center for social work in a living man who cared and continued to care for the child as his own, but the law currently does not allow it. It is obvious that the adoption principle of the European Convention has not been fulfilled in such cases, so adoption should imitate the need to imitate natural relations. In the natural relationships of one parent's death, a child does not lose both parents. The interest of adoptors was the fundamental reason for our proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law. The government then did not understand the problem and, in its negative opinion, says, I quote, "It could be interpreted as satisfying the interests of adopters rather than adoptions." It is good that after that, the organisation of round tables on which this issue has been addressed and logic and reason prevailed so that we have now received in the Government's proposal the abolition of the age-limit of adoptors, which is a little odd given the previous written opinion, but what is good is always acceptable. Under the future provisions of the law, adoption will indeed be realised by the principle of imitation of natural relations. Furthermore, Article 2 of the Family Law amended, we proposed the possibility of translation of adoption with parental effect in adoption with related effect. What exactly is this about? The previous law knew two kinds of adoptions and this adoption with parental effect and adoption with related effect. There is a difference between these two kinds of adoptions. When a parent adopts a child, they only have legal relations with their adaptive parents. In a relative adoption that is unbreakable, the child becomes a member of a wider family with all the legal effects resulting from it. So parental adoption for a child is more unfavourable. The new law of 2003 gave up parental adoption and recognised only relatively as more favourable to the child and thus defined itself as the most qualitative form of childcare of deprived parent care. Today, however, they still insist on adoptions with parental effect based on the old law. Among these adoptors are those who would like to translate adoption with parental effect into adoption with related effect and thus fully protect the child. For such an act of impediment is a law that does not allow it. Therefore, in our proposal for an amendment, we introduce the possibility of translation under the following conditions, that the adoptor wants it, that the adoptor is a minor and that if he is older than 12 years of age, he gives his consent, even though the adoptor has given consent to the translation to another spouse. This means that translation can only be sought by the adoptor and not by the adoptor because he is not a party to the adoption process. So a change in solution cannot be sought by one who is not a party to the procedure. That the translation institute cannot be applied to an adoptive adoptive person, because it cannot be adopted for years of age, that translation cannot be determined when it would be contrary to the child's well-being, that the Centre for Social Care in the procedure is obliged to listen to a minor adopted by an older than 12 years of age when he is able to understand the consequences of adoption, i.e. in this case a change in one form of adoption from others. A request for translation would be submitted on the basis of our new draft article, and in the procedure for abolishing and amending a valid solution with consent or at the request of a party, which is prescribed by the provision of Article 265. The General Administrative Procedure Act. In order to decide on the request, the Centre for Social Care would be responsible for making a valid decision on adoption with parental effect. The Centre would decide based on the state of the file, i.e. the basis of documentation in the file collected in the establishment of adoption with parental effect and it is not necessary to carry out a comprehensive test procedure of adoption of the beginning. However, the Centre for Social Care always makes sure that adoption is based on the child’s well-being will refuse the request if it finds that the change in the solution would not be for the child’s benefit. We have set the deadline for submission of the application at the end of 31.12.2009 as an appropriate deadline for decision-making by the adoptor whether or not such an amendment wishes to take place with all its advantages for adoptors and adoptors. In the event that the adoptor who submits a request for a change in the solution in marriage, the consent of the spouse is required to amend the solution. Consensus is not necessary when both spouses are fosterers with the parental effect of adoption and when they submit a joint unanimous request to amend the solution. The question arises whether another adoptor may request the transfer of adoption in the event of the death of one adoptor. Well, of course he can, because there is no legal or living reason to prohibit the translation of the adoption relationship that exists between the living adoptor and adoptors. In its written opinion of 1 February 2007, the Government has also stated to our proposal for an amendment to this Article 2 concerning adoption. I quote: "According to Article 2 of the Bill of Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in the text of the draft Act on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, the proposed supplement is properly included, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers to be in the interest of children. In this regard, the draft law provides for a provision that will allow the translation of former parental adoptions into the current uniform form of adoption in order to better protect the rights and interests of adoption of children. The deadline for that procedure will be too inclusive and will expire on the date of entry into force of the proposed amendments and additions to the Family Law and will not be possible for the translation of parental adoption if the adoptor or at least one adoptor has died. Namely, the death of any of the parties to the based adoption cannot obtain consent to the translation of the adoption. In the event that the child has adopted a person who has not been married and at the time of the request for adoption is married, the possibility of her mate to exist will be treated according to the general assumptions for the establishment of adoption. The application will be submitted to the competent Social Care Centre, and the submission will be authorised by the adoptive and adoptive adult, and if the child is older than 12 years of age, his consent will be required in accordance with the right of the child to express his or her own opinion but also other adoption provisions which respect the child’s opinion. Also, a way of enrolling the newly designed adoption of the birth certificate will be prescribed." The final quote, and this is the government's opinion at the time and the government's conclusion, is that our proposal for amendment and addition is mostly almost identically included in the proposal. So the government's vision was almost identical to our proposal. The difference is that according to the Government's proposal for translation, a full-time adoptor for which there are no legal assumptions because he is not a party to the procedure and translation could not be initiated by one adoptor if the other adoptor died for which there is no legal justification. So despite the almost identical reflection of the Government's solution to this problem, despite the government's promise to include it in their proposal for an amendment, today when the government's changes are ahead of us we see that there is not a single word. This is completely unclear and we call on the government to accept our proposal as its own until the second reading, as it has accepted the abolition of the age-old limit, thus adopting children adopted under the old law to equalise with children adopted under the current law, because the objective of the Family Law was both in 2003 and later and this Law to achieve the child's well-being. So if there is a form of adoption that is more unfavourable for a child, let us allow this to be done in accordance with Article 265. The law on administrative procedure translates and gives the child complete security. Of course, as regards our proposal to amend and supplement the Law in Article 1 relating to the abolition of the age-limit, since it is identical with the Government in that part we are giving up the amendments and additions, however, in Article 2 relating to essential matter, which is to enable the translation of status from one point to another adoption, we remain in this proposal and we expect in view of the previous opinion given by the Government, that we will indeed find a common solution and that these provisions will be included in the amendments and amendments to the law, and I say everything in order to fully protect the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93436	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Family, youth and sport? Justice? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93437	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister! Here, today we have an amendment to the Family Law which, in fact, contains in its largest part something that we in this House actually proposed through the Alimentary Fund Act. And I have to admit on behalf of the SDP club that we're glad that the parts of our Alimentary Fund proposal were found within the Family Law, and I hope this contributes to all those parents who, in particular, don't receive alimony from an irresponsible parent. A little over two years ago in this House, we organised an expert discussion on how to address the problem of alimony collection. At that time, even people, experts from the Faculty of Law, said that there were all mechanisms in the Family Law that would then be valid in order to force child support from irresponsible parents. They were already in the Family Law mechanisms that allowed social care centres to initiate some proceedings against the irresponsible parent, but also that if a parent does not pay child support within three months that the amount can be compensated by the welfare centre. So even then they assured us that there are some mechanisms, but here, that these mechanisms are somehow not implemented and that there is the problem. So now the Family Law includes the mechanisms that we have proposed under the Alimentary Fund Act. And I hope this applies because unfortunately many of our laws and legal provisions are well written, but they fall for implementation, they fall for people who have to enforce these laws. This is so important not only from the aspect of creating order in this country but primarily from the aspect of child rights protection, because the right of the child is that if he cannot live with both parents, at least another parent who does not live with him is bound by certain obligations, in this case financial obligations towards the child. The fact is that many studies have shown that the majority of children do not have and do not exercise the right to alimony. The fact is that a lot of research and studies, for example, by some and world organisations such as the UNDP that has been doing here confirm that, in fact, the greatest risk of poverty is being exposed to single-parent families, just like children. And the study that we did, the research we did somewhere in 2001 or 2002, so in the single parent population, it was visible that a large number of children would actually cross the poverty line if they got alimony. Thus, a large number of children living in single or single - parent families today are better said to be children who, due to their lack of alimony, live above or below the poverty line or are somewhere else, are unable to meet some of the basic needs so parents can hardly pay for some of their extracurricular activities, even some might say in some cases and need for a better diet. Thus, alimony showed that most of such children would still live much better and better. Likewise, all these years, we have been warned by people who are dealing with this problem, how parents who have struggled for years to obtain alimony, and lawyers who judge or deal with this problem warn us of what we call the imagination of those parents who in every way avoid paying for alimony, so we come to the conclusion that they are able to transfer their property to someone else. And I think it's still going to be necessary for those most imaginative, maybe some other measures that aren't prescribed here at this point in time to really catch up with everything they're accomplishing as their own or their incomes or assets and what they're trying to cover up and thus avoid paying for the alimony. So we will see in the next period how much this law will apply, how effective it will be in the collection of alimony and bringing in those who are therefore irresponsible parents and those who do not pay child support. In this law there are some parts that are not regulated and I will take advantage of the opportunity to say so in my first reading. In fact, there is a very big problem for children who are traumatized by what experts call an unquality divorce. I talked here on several occasions about it, the unquality divorce is mostly when parents are so irresponsible to their children that, through their interests and the quality of their lives, they actually argue about property, about some unresolved relationships. They try to make each other's lives miserable, but unfortunately, they use the child as an object of bitterness in the life of one another. And I think this law should provide for something called partner therapy. So people who are in a divorce case, who are divorced, for whom the centre that works with these people know that people who are able to harm their own child in order to make life worse for their partner, because they decided here to seek divorce, I think that they should, therefore, be obliged to go to partnership therapy to work with them and to primarily work on having children have to have their own quality of life and that they should not be involved in their relationships, because adults can decide by their will to get married, they can decide that they will get out of this marriage’, but children cannot choose parents and therefore both parents and other parents must be responsible for them and their psychophysical development. Not to say that one part and parents who mistreat their children should also have some kind of education and therapy, but let us now look back and look only at those who get out of marriage because, for example, indicators at the Child Protection Center in the city of Zagreb show that in the last few years, an increasing number of children who have come to seek help is therefore being traumatized by their parents because of this unquality divorce. Another thing that might need to be solved in this law is something that has proved to be a pretty big problem in everyday life, and that is when a child center in some way takes away parents for some reason and temporarily cares for grandparents or other people. Often, the right to a child’s allowance, which is the right to have a child’s right, remains, in fact, with those parents. They are parents who are either alcoholics or are bad parents for some other reason, and unfortunately they do not transfer that child’s allowance to those who take care of that child, so often it happens that grandparents with their very low pensions have to care for and care for that child and do not get a child’s allowance for those children, so unfortunately it remains a real parent. So it would be good, she warned in some of her reports and child’s attorneys, so you might want to consider whether you could put such a provision into the Family Law by the second reading. And in the end, I would like to say something about the very adoption and abolition of this age-old adoption limit. On behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the abolition of the age limit, it is indeed in line with the European Convention. On the other hand, there are a number of children in Croatia who are adopted by only one parent because the other parent has crossed the age line within a few months, so it is quite amazing to say that the child, for example, has a daily life of both father and mother and only has a mother on paper because the father has crossed several months above the age limit. So this elimination is good if it means that one child will sort out their status in some ways, that they will get the possibility of adoption from both parents or in some cases from one parent. But in any case, this elimination of the age limit will be for a number of children who are currently in a situation that they are either in custody or in any other possibility that the law allows in some people who have decided to care for them for the rest of their lives so that they can finally adopt them and that abolishing the age limit is something in these situations that can be absolutely welcomed. However, this certainly will not contribute to a greater number of adopted children, or a reduction in the number of children in carefree homes. It's not because we still have inactivity, so it's not because we're worried about these kids. About a month ago, I think we even had the opportunity to read the principals in the center of Split who said that in the last three years, no child has been adopted from that home, which is very bad. I cannot believe that all the parents who left their children there are just as caring and so worried about their children that they had to keep their parental care for them for three years. I'm afraid a number of people have access to the centers is that the birthright of parents is more protected than the right of a child. I think the right of the child is above all else. Finally, according to European conventions, the right of the child is simply his interest above all else, and I think that until something changes there, until the centres get a little more involved in taking away parental care that we will continue to have crowded homes. Children who do not go to a certain age to adopt actually stay until their 18th year in children's homes and lose each battle so that they can be adopted and found a family. I'm afraid the logic that was publicly spoken and one MP in this home from the majority party, which is a statement that even the worst mother is better than the best stepmom, is simply one logic that we have to fight because that logic leaves children in a home for unsettled children, that logic leaves children in one world that is definitely not good for them, is much better to find a family in which they will live full of lungs and full life. Here, with these remarks and asking for some things to be incorporated into this Family Law by another reading, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93438	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93439	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable ministers, secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Bill on Amendments and Family Law Supplements. The family is at the heart of the interest of state policy and this government has put the family at the heart of political, cultural and social events. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, international documents are required by the State to ensure a decent life and standard of living in the event of the absence of family legal restraint. The provision of Article 63(5) requires that the State pays particular attention to minors without parents and those who are not cared for by parents. In accordance with Article 27, paragraphs 1 and 2. Conventions on the rights of a child of a State Party recognise any child’s right to a standard of living appropriate to his physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development. The living conditions necessary for the child’s development are due to the parents or other persons responsible for the child depending on their abilities and material abilities. Unfortunately, today we are facing cases that parents for years, that parents, years after divorce, do not pay child support alimony, that they changed jobs, that they changed their address, that they did not report all income and, of course, that the child's existence was at risk. 80% of the alimony is filed through lawyers and courts, and alimony is most often sought by a mother who stays with her child after divorce. According to the last census in 2001, in 188 thousand single - parent families lived 257,000 621 children of which 88 thousand 245 were aged to 18 years. It is estimated that by the age of 18, 43,000 children are without abstention and 48.7% of parents are obliged to abstain do not comply with the legal obligation. The litigation procedures take several years to maintain them. Many parents avoid obligations in different ways. And not even 10% of parents agree on child support after divorce. The rest of you are on trial or being intimate with your children. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposed changes relating to motherhood and paternity, rights and responsibilities in the relations of parents and children, adoption, changes relating to child support, parents and other support relatives, spouse and mother, out-of-marriage child and maintenance. Rights relating to property, court proceedings and special enforcement and insurance procedures. In 2006, the amendment and addition of the Penal Code introduces more severe penalties for violations of duty and restraint. The fine and sentence imposed from 3 months to 3 years have been deleted. Avoiding the payment of abstention is a criminal offence, so if a abstention of a father or mother avoids a procedure under the powerful executive decision on maintenance is subject to the right prison sentence from 3 months to 3 years. The proposed law prescribes that a custodian cannot, on behalf of and on behalf of a protégé, enter into a life-restraint contract. The responsibility of parents to support their children as part of the content of parental care is expanded. It is possible to allow a child who has not received unfounded support from a separate parent to seek non-payments retroactively from the date of the commitment, not as before from the time of the application. There is also a possibility for adult children to press charges against parents who have not paid until then. Obligation to support a child of age during schooling with the right of a child's parent to seek and obtain information about child's schooling or employment. The word prescribes legitimate reasons for remaining a maintenance obligation despite the failure to meet the obligations of the current school year, pregnancy, disease or the like. The right of parents to seek the extra from him is also established on the basis of previous executive documents following the application for termination or reduction of restraint. In the case of his abstention, a mate may only point out a requirement to refrain from filing an action, not from the day when a mate stopped supporting him as well as an out - of - wedlock one. The duty of the father of the child is extended to pay the fee for the denied abstention of the mother of the extramarital child and in time to file a complaint. The Croatian Democratic Community Club particularly praises the decision that the court will take into account its overall property situation, not only the receipts and actual opportunities of profit. The data should also be provided by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, financial agencies and other institutions. In his discussion, the HDZ Club also considered the possibility to put into the law a provision and some protection because we often witnessed that one of the parents had previously transferred his property to a brother or sister. So the possibility on the one hand of that protection. On the other hand, you may introduce one protection provision into the law because often one of the parents in his abuse gives authority to one another to raise that child’s allowance. So that child's allowance doesn't come to whoever really needs it. It is possible for parents and children to enter into a restraint agreement and during the court proceedings, which has not been possible so far. This paper encourages peaceful resolution of the issue of parent - child restraint. These changes prescribe the minimum amount necessary for the monthly child restraint in a given age group, which is required to pay for a parent who does not live with a child. The amount was put in proportion to the average paid monthly net salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia, which amounted to 4000 833 kuna for 2007. And so far, not like so far, not according to the pay received by the parent. The lowest estimated amount of temporary abstention would be 17% for a child up to 6 years of age, so 821 kuna, 61 lipu. For a child from 7 to 12 years of age, 20% of the average net salary, i.e. 966 kuna, 60 lipa. And for a child aged 13 to 18, 22% of the average net salary paid, i.e. a thousand 63 kuna and 26 limes. Of course, if fostering parents is bigger, then the minimum alimony increases. This law lays down the duty of the social care centre, which is particularly the HDZ Club, and commends the child to launch and lead a abstention case on behalf of the child, or to increase restraint and to seek the implementation of the child restraint decision. A way of handling a social care centre has been developed to help methods of extrajudicial procedure to encourage parents who do not live with a child to pay child restraint. The duty of the Social Care Centre is also foreseen to file criminal charges against persons who do not fulfil their maintenance duties regularly. The duty of the court to refer the debtor to the possibility of the so-called administrative tasks i.e. the confiscation of its salaries or other permanent cash receipts and the implementation of the maintenance payment on the basis of the consent which has been certified and which has the legal power of the enforceable solution. The court commits itself to making a solution on the provisional measure already at the first hearing, and then the court's first-degree decision becomes final. In view of the slowness of the courts, it is a very important provision to prohibit the proceedings in status proceedings and litigation cases. In this respect, the possibility of an extraordinary revision against the second-degree abstention decision is also introduced as well as the decision-making of the ruling for the absence. Judgments based on the recognition of that judgment on the basis of denial. The court's obligation to carry out certain alimony procedures and to carry out official duties has been imposed. Where a maintenance undertaking fails to comply with its obligation for more than 6 months, the Social Care Centre shall be obliged to pay temporary maintenance for a maximum duration of up to 3 years but in so doing it shall inform the competent State Attorney-General who is initiating the dispute against the abstentionary. As we have heard in accordance with the European Convention on the adoption of a child, this law allows the adoptor to be a person under the age of 21. And what is truly commendable about what we are witnessing both in Europe and in our country is the end of that age limit. Unfortunately, we still have few adoptions when you look at 151 children since 2004, 2005. 153, 2006. 137. So still a little bit. And in Zagreb a year, out of 100 children, 40 go to adoption. The problem is parents who do not want to give up parental rights even though their parental care has been taken away. So something we can't change for now, but unfortunately such children can't be adopted because of this parental concern. Often adoptors also cite a desire for, quote, wishes for younger children, not for older children. However, children with genetic diseases or children who are lagging behind in psycho-physical development are also not welcome with us and we meet to be adopted by foreigners and relations in other countries. However, the new bill stimulates adoption by only the two - parent family and when only one of the spouses meets the requirements of a prescribed age compared to the age of a child, which is indeed a major shift. Finally, in his debate, the Croatian Democratic Community Club pointed out that this law really significantly improves the protection and care of the child, which is indeed for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93440	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93441	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law comes in line with the Household Law because it covers a similar area here for children who have somehow found their family whether natural or adoptive. There in that other law for children who are placed in a family that, by law or by nature, is not theirs but also the one and the other are actually talking about family. And when it comes to protecting the family, what is it really about? Who needs protection before and above all else. Well, parents sort of manage to protect each other from each other anyway, from the environment. Those who are truly unprotected and who need our protection, the protection of society. We represent Croatian society here are children and therefore we should commend this law and efforts in it to put children at the heart of the interests of the whole society because they are part of the society that needs to be protected, which both the institutions of the state and the law and the law and the bodies of the prosecution and all of us together according to God's and human justice. Namely, the word idiot in the original meaning does not mean a mentally retarded man, but a man who is socially irresponsible. That's how the old Greeks understood the word idiot and this law is about such idiots. So, people with no social responsibilities or responsibilities to their own children, which I personally cannot imagine. But there's people like that. I assume that the government has been encouraged by the terrible statistics that 48.7% so half of all parents of abstention, so divorced marriages, and all of that together, are not fulfilling their duty. It's like the children came by the Holy Spirit. The data is amazing! It's about half those parents. Obviously, the system worked badly and allowed these people to be willing if they were, let's say, how many decent people would decide to give something for their child, if they were nothing. That's totally inadmissible. Something that can't be tolerated. I'm glad this government came to that conclusion. I'm sorry it's been four years. We've been talking about all these topics this same way and this same rhetoric. It could have been done significantly earlier, but let’s “better ever than never. ” A step further has taken place, so it allows a child who unfoundedly received no restraint to obtain this restraint retroactively, not from the moment of the complaint, but from the moment the obligation was made. So, since the birth of a child or the divorce of a marriage, the situation has already been. That's good. Now it's just a matter of how much our courts will be able to do, and they want to know how to do it urgently. And it's actually about the speed of the procedure. Justice, any justice that later is injustice, and in this case it is especially true. I know a personal example of the mother who filed the lawsuit when the child was a year old. The kid graduated high school, and it's senior year. The procedure isn't over yet. The procedure takes 17 years. That's terrible! My father doesn't have any property because all the property that my colleague said earlier was prescribed to her brothers and sisters, so there's no such thing as an orphan social case. He rides in his brother's Mercedes and is a prominent Zagreb craftsman at his brother's firm, of course, and gives the child nothing. It seems to me that this type of situation is not fully regulated here and that it should also be possible to establish the value of the property the moment the commitment was made, not when the verdict was reached. Because, of course, the procedure will take place, in such a procedure, an unconscious parent who has no intention of paying for the support of his children will certainly make sure that this restraint is as small as possible and will remove that property from his account, from his property and move it somewhere else. “Eated a donkey wolf” is what I have nothing. I'm a poor social case and no one can do anything to me. A commitment is also well established, or care for a full - time child during school. We've been talking all this time about high school as a mandatory school. If high school becomes mandatory she will be at the status of today's primary school, is that it would mean that the grotesque children would go on to schooling and the fact that they are not financially independent and are still children at least 18 years old and most of us have such children and I know well that each of us keeps these children and much more than anything, with much more than anything that is foreseen here so that this provision certainly stands. What's a parent's property? In the light of the law, it is said that the complaint can include subordinated bonds. I don't know if it assumes that the lawsuit can include those transferred to the property of a parent who doesn't want to, doesn't pay for the child's abstention, to which the property has been transferred, so it could possibly charge the child's support in such a situation. If that's the intention, then it's a good intention and it should be supported as well. I think we should define more clearly what the whole parent property means. What kind of movables, real estate, money and everything that goes into the entire property. We had all kinds of definition of assets, money wasn't property, it was property, it was property, it was property, it wasn't property, nothing burning to define it here one part of an article or one article to be perfectly safe in another reading of what we're talking about. The minimum amount prescribed by this child restraint law is linked to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia and that is good. I think it should also be determined that it concerns only a person who has minimal or no income and no income, so let them manage. If they were resourceful enough to make children, then let them be resourceful enough to find the money to take care of those children. For all others, the principle of part of the remuneration should apply. So we don't want the best-paid director of the state-owned company in Croatia to complain about a solution of 8 thousand kuna child support and say it's a terrible lot because he could not pay more than 6 thousand kuna for his only child, and he has 35,000 kuna. Now, I don't understand it in a person's live or in a picture, not in words, not in any way, but that's what the man said in public, I guess it's true. The mandatory exercise that is initiated under official duty, so the court initiates it by official duty, removes the child’s obligation, or the parent who lives with his parents to initiate the obligation, is also good. These people are most often and more difficult to cope with and have no money to launch all these steps in the process of gaining their rights. If the court has to do so, then the court will do so on official duty. Now it is just necessary to exercise and exercise permanent control whether courts do so both at that time and at that rate as it is useful and necessary for the child, I would like to say that such actions in front of courts should have the right to absolute priority and urgency because these children are experiencing life in poverty and that is a little different about the dispute with the border or any other kind of dispute. In fact, an alimony fund has been established. It's called a different one, but it's an alimony fund. So the state temporarily until all this is done, the state temporarily pays to support the child 475.25 kuna. 475 kuna 25 limes. I invite everyone here and in Croatia to explain to me how with this number you can support a child, I don't know maybe there are ways, but these are much smarter people. In second place, there are 33,000 children who are likely to come forward with such needs. In the second place, Article 26 refers to minimum alimony. This minimum child alimony of up to six years is twice as big as this, and why wouldn't the state be at least a minimum parent if not as a let's say a better parent, but as a minimum parent it might be and I don't think there's any reason that this is determined by 470 kuna, and the minimum alimony here seems to me to be 800 and something kuna. I think those two digits should be evened at the very least. Article 9 refers to the limitation of claims resulting from five years after the date of the commitment, so five years after the date of the initiation of the obligation, the child could not, as far as I understand from Article 9, ask for the payment of the fee for the denied abstention from the origin of that right to the application of the claim, right? So that part of the child couldn't ask for after five years. I don't see why we should even mention the limitation period here, that obligation was once created, it's forever the obligation of parents to a child, never goes away by any statute of limitations. I think you should consider that at the end of this proposal, a good bill that the Croatian People's Party will support, that in the end I should be given some criminal provisions that would determine what is going on and the bodies of social care, is that those who do not respect the provisions of this law and anyone who does not carry out what is drawn here, at a pace and in a way that is designed to protect the interests of children who have found themselves in a situation where one of the parents does not want to take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93442	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Kajin and Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. The first will be a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93443	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I agree with this law, and with my predecessor, it's a fair law. The law has more messages, one of those messages is let's say no one's too old to adopt children anymore. What does that mean? We so far de facto have two approaches, one that is in effect, that the age difference must not be greater than 40 years, only extremely 45 years, and the other that now abolishs that age difference and de facto lays down the principle that no one is too old to adopt a child. What are the arguments, for example, for and against. This provision, prescribed by the previous law, abolishes one absurd that if one is over 40 years old, he is 40 years old and two weeks or three weeks de facto that he cannot adopt a child. And what is also interesting is that this decision can lead to the disappearance of fake foster homes, which, in fact, people who are otherwise unable to adopt a child. Against such a provision is an argument that this age limit is 40, i.e. 45 years of natural, so that it allows for example. and older children adopt and, say, don't adopt children I don't know 70-year-olds. We all agree that this is about one, in this law in general, of the most prominent I do not know norm which parliament can adopt in its term of office. So clearly there must be no politicizing around this law because this is simply hypersensitive matter. This is about parental obligations, about rights, and then it's the most sacred and most resourceful matter. This is not only a foster child's relationship to the child, but also a child's next day to the adoptor. This is about creating a family as a basis for every community and therefore the legislator in this case has far more responsibility than when it comes to foster care that we will later discuss or do not know how to prescribe some tax rates. To begin with, it is also good not to consider the possibility of couples adopting children. As far as the Family Law itself is concerned, I think the government is on a good track to a 40-year-old provision, i.e. It's extremely 45 years discriminatory in my court, I said absurd is that someone for two or three weeks can't adopt a child and should finally do so, such a provision solves cases of false adoption, and there are hundreds of them in Croatia. What's going on? If, for example, it is. was a man, for example, under quotes, too old to be 42 years old or 42 years older than a child, then he would, for example. The child had to adopt his wife. She de facto becomes a mother to that child, and the man to that child is somehow nothing. Such a situation is not normal, and this was clearly what had to be changed because this is finally the approach that European conventions know. On the other hand, what matters is that social workers have to check out every potential adoptor and there should be no problem there. Although they should be that final filter. Why some, I don't know, I'll say a 60-year-old couldn't provide material safety to a child? I know the basic problem is there's always a few people who are willing to adopt older children. That's the problem, and that's why on the other hand, the foster parents, we'll discuss it later, we can stimulate it, we can't limit it. That's why foster parents should be rewarded materially. It's going that way in this later law, but certainly not enough. The second thing that's also good is that I'm not talking about this law being extremely serious is these provisions that are built in, for example, from Article 2 below and just some to quote. Article 2: "A woman who gave birth to a child, who was conceived by another woman’s ovary, has the right to challenge motherhood if fertilisation has occurred with medical help without her certified consent. The woman whose ovary is conceived without her certified consent has the right to challenge the mothership of the woman who gave birth to him if at the same time she asks to establish her motherhood", etc., etc. It seems to me that a year or two ago we followed these affairs in the Croatian press. I'm not going to mention these professors, the doctors we're talking about, but we were all worried at the time at that commercialization without any ethics that someone without consenting to a woman would fertilize the first one with another woman's cell. Because of one doctor, to put it this way, we are forced to change and supplement this Law, because of one doctor, one such immorality should be written or completed by the existing law. It's like no one resents me, a Bosnian who came to Sweden and started building a house without a building permit and everyone wondered how it was possible. Clearly, in one Sweden it was not necessary to build this into their legal regulations, but after that one example, they had nothing to do, but had to go on to amend or supplement their laws. Another area that is extremely important is this area of restraint. In order not to quote all the provisions now, perhaps only article 10 parents are obliged to support a full - time child who is educated in high school, at universities, in a professional study, etc. A full - time child who completed school and cannot be employed and parents are obliged to support a year after leaving school. An adult child who, due to illness, mental, physical impairment, is not capable of work that predominates, etc., etc. I mean this principle of seeking compensation from the date of the obligation for an unsustained child, it is simply a revolutionary solution and it is good that this code knows him, but this obligation under my court can only be applied from the entry into force of the law on obligations that will then arise because I fear that someone, because of the retroactiveness of the Constitutional Court, will dispute such a logical, correct and fair solution. It is also good to take care of the entire property, no longer the salary itself, in view of this maintenance fee. This is as correct a solution as the correct solution was when the Penal Code prescribed a prison sentence of 3 months to 3 years in certain cases of non-restraint. Article 26(4) may also be crucial. The Ministry of Social Affairs will determine the minimum amounts necessary for monthly maintenance by 1 April of the current year at the latest by 1 April of each year. A minimum amount shall be determined as a percentage of the average monthly net salary paid per employee in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia for the past year. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is about four thousand 650 kuna. In the social sector, the public administration averages about five thousand, 200 kuna. In legal terms, people who deal or appear on markets are about four thousand 200. So the average is four thousand 650 kuna. So, for a child up to six years, 17% of the average salary is paid. That's about 790 kuna somewhere. For a child from 7 to 12 years of age, 20% of the average salary. That's 930 cca. Kuna. For a child aged 13 to 18, 22% of the average salary. It's around here somewhere, so that's the amount of a thousand and twenty-three kunas. I personally believe that these solutions are also a step forward, but it is clear that the bodies of supervision should then be formed because this situation that we have in the Republic of Croatia today does not pay 48.7% of parents, which is somewhere, which refers to 43,000 young children. children under 18, is one behavior that really needs to be put to rest. It's also a good solution that, in fact, we can say on the other side of the bill and about 33,000 children who are presumed to seek restraint from the state. This means that in 2008 the budget will mean that for that year, the 33,000 children will need to be provided somewhere around 93 million kuna, 15 million euros. These are significant amounts. Those amounts are not clear for underestimation. It would have been far more correct if those amounts had already been secured in the rebalancing of the budget we will be voting on in two days. It is clear that the state must meet this most unprotected category of its citizens. And this is exactly the most unprotected category of children. If the individual himself doesn't want to take responsibility for his child, then there's nothing left to do but ask the state to intervene. It is clear that some other solutions to a mate who has borne the costs of supporting another mate and after the end of the maintenance obligation, or after its reduction, have the first to recover the value of the support given both during and before the action is filed. And not to quote any other solutions now. All in all, the law is simply correct, and it is necessary to introduce order in this area, because the law is simply tanging one of the most unprotected categories of this society, and these are our children. They should be clearly held accountable both by parents and communities, and if they are not able, then the state and with these words we want to give support to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93444	Thank you. The completion of the agenda has been established. We're going to continue the debate on changes and additions to family law. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who? ... Agent Cain? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Although I haven't recorded it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93445	He incorrectly claimed that because of one doctor, Cain was now changing the law, citing the very provision of article 86, which refers to the challenge of motherhood and to the woman who gave birth to another woman’s ovary or this other woman’s ovary. It was done a few years ago but the fact is that it was also a colleague of Cain, so after this incorrect claim that you determined it was done because of it and it was necessary to do it because they were simply medical methods. But unfortunately, we still don't have a law on medically assisted insemination. So here's what our laws are like. This one allows, he doesn't allow it first because he's not there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93446	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93447	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club is of course and I am very interested in discussing the draft laws on changes and additions to family law. On several occasions during this year we initiated the debate, we participated in almost all the stands, round tables. In fact, we join all those who consider the family to be in Croatia today, so I would say more widely in danger. And when we talk about the structure of the family, then, of course, it's children who are exposed to even greater danger, including the figures mentioned here today, who say that nearly half of the 33,000 children are in such circumstances that are unacceptable, best talks and testifies about the condition of the family. And it may seem like an unmoved introduction, but I'm going to say right at the very beginning that it's obviously matured time for families to start gathering in our squares, that they're just saying how they want to protest against the conditions where families are just brought in. I think that in all markets, they should protest almost day and night and demand their rights because of all those who seek their rights, their rights are most violated. And I hope that these changes and additions of the Family Law proposal will also contribute to that syntagm which should read "yes to the family" and to the balance of those negativitys that are in some way over a certain period of time found. And in this sense, the absolute HSS club joins the support that came from clubs in terms of amending and supplementing the Family Law from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, of this proposal to amend and supplement the family law proposed by the HSS Club, Mrs Ljubica explained it, which is in the nature of a single body as I would say. He needs it, and he needs to be looked at in a unique way. I'm not going to discuss one thing in particular, especially the other. I think that they are all completely compact and that they should be given a unique form in the second reading to find places for all those remarks that will strengthen the position of the family, for all those remarks and proposals that will strengthen the position and position of children, especially those children who need that assistance at this time. So, of course, we welcome and support all those changes that go in this direction and which want to regulate the principle of justice, the principle of efficiency and the principle of above all child care. Because these are the very principles, unfortunately, that there are half those who should have paid for not being held back but their own children who do not do so by the majority, and I would not agree that the primary reason is a material situation, but one of the concerns that is expressed in a way that we as representatives of the people must not allow them to find our place in the law. And that's why these changes are good. I would also join those who feel that it would be good if it were possible to define more closely which way the court and he will, based on these amendments, take into account not only the current financial situation on the account of individual family members but will take into account the entire assets which will, of course, be recorded by the collection of data from the public authority, the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, Internal Affairs and the like, to draw closer to defining the possible circumvention of those who have obviously been doing so for a long time so that they cannot simply bypass and simply find effective instruments that the court will find the best, shortest and most appropriate form to sanction those who need to be sanctioned. That's why I'd think we'd have time between the first and second readings to really settle that relationship. I suppose we should change some other laws and not just this law, but I believe we can work it out. Of course, I firmly believe, and I want these new institutes that are being introduced for temporary restraint, to be able to establish a minimum basis for supporting a child of about 800, over 800 kuna. They, in turn, need to be observed in the context of the overall situation when it comes to children. Not just those who don't want or can't pay for it, that part of restraint. But also those who are definitely willing to take full on their obligations but unfortunately if they have an average salary in the Republic of Croatia 3 thousand or 3 and a half thousand kuna, and the other spouse has nothing then they are in another situation. That there simply isn't enough resources to draw those sufficient funds to support the child. In that sense, the circle should be fully expanded so that it is not selective and not only includes those who do not want but also those who cannot. Furthermore, when it comes to the duties of the Social Care Centre, which has duties and which should be initiated and litigation and proceedings, it is necessary, rather than saying that it is good that the Centre for Social Care participated and was fully involved in these amendments and amendments to the law. He made his contribution. In some ways, he also exposed himself to the criticism of the public because, of course, he is the body, the public body closest in nature to these problems that he faces daily in his work with these problems, and from their actions as professionals and people who work with a special population in many ways depends on exactly how the rights resulting from the law will come to those that need to be reached. Whether or not they will come and how they will come. And that is why it is very important that, when it comes to the conduct of this law, it is very clear and precise that these are the steps, which are the responsibilities of those who are meant to do so. Of course, it is difficult to speculate whether children will be 33,000 who are without restraint or more, whether there will be fewer. Of course, it would be very good for this trend to have a major decline and that this means should not be allocated from the State budget, but it simply depends on the picture of which society, which this Parliament, which the total community, sends in the way we refer to this serious subject that the truth does not bear the P.Z.E. mark. but it bears a more important mark, a family designation, and therefore, of course, this topic should not be used on any political basis, regardless of what we are in the election year. She should have the character of a consensus. She should have the character of one respecting problem. It should have one character that all these suggestions that are given are fully supported because they are primarily in the interest of children. I would briefly say something about the HSS proposal. Namely Article 4 which in some ways successfully and completely resolves that proposal, and it has found its place entirely in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the one about abolishing the age-old limit and the age-old difference. We are quite clearly satisfied and we support it, but I want both for the sake of the public and for your colleagues and colleagues, of course, that the vice president understands that, to say that it is the very institute that came from the time of socialism, which is the parental adoption of which the present, the legal present, and even in Europe, and even in Croatia does not know that he still lives. And this is exactly our proposal for a change that feels there's no need for him to live. Because this parental adoption isn't a natural adoption. It's in its contents, I'm not going to say it against nature. But it's not exactly the way a child needs it. Because a child other than a father and a mother he's going to get needs a relative. He needs both uncle and aunt and aunt and uncle. He needs it all. He needs both his brother and his sister. He needs an environment at home. He needs an environment that's only called family. And why is it that the law enforcement team, who, in the transitional and final provisions of 2003, has not thought enough about it, does not allow parents to move from this adoption to a relative adoption that is completely and legally and substancefully good for the child. Not to say another fact that in this parental adoption, it can come to giving up on the adoptor. It can also happen to give up. And why should we even create such an attitude that is in itself negative? I don't think we have a reason. Of course it would have been better if this hadn't happened at all. But the proposal that the HSS Club made goes only to make things right, clearly set up in which there are no obstacles. In which the family is a house where everything should happen. When I say family, then I mean everything I've said. Not just to father and mother, but to a common community that in some way forms the foundation of every society. And it can't form the foundation of society if it's narcissistic. It's naradal because it doesn't have the fullness of content. So I know this is pretty sensitive. And I know that it causes different debates of civil society guards, those whose family is not very attached. Either who think the family can be like this or like that. But we want to set things up in the Family Law the way they're the only ones who can be. And the family is a community of husbands and wives, children and everything that belongs to that circle. And there's just nothing that can change. And our proposal for our 2nd article on the translation of adoption with parental effect on adoption based on related effect is precisely that goal. To equalize rights and obligations, to create a community that will function like any other community. And I think Madam Vice President created herself simply and the climate to say so, the vice president knows that the climate has not always been good. There wasn't always understanding. I think we are now at a time when we can reach a consensus in thinking, understanding, and that in other reading we can have one joint proposal to amend and supplement the family law that will serve both families but, above all, children, as the most important component of the family, because, of course, there would be no follow-up to the family. I hope, therefore, that in this brief interpretation of what we have advocated and through the support of this bill by the Government, I have given arguments even though I am not a lawyer, so don't blame me for perhaps using insufficient legal terms. But I think it's good except for the legal form that we do and we understand what we're talking about, and I mean when it comes to things that everybody understands if they're all right, then we all understand, and I hope that by the conclusion before the vote, we'll be able to create a consensus, so there's no need to vote now. I think that they are very clear intensities and that they are not opposed to the government or at this point to all those who are about to place the family in Croatia in the place where it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93448	Thank you. At 11.14, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. HSP club respected representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93449	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club supports this Bill on Amendments and Family Law Supplements because we know that family is the foundation or pillar of every society and without family there is no good society. Only in this law should parents’ care for children when children, when children do not go to school, when they avoid school, when they have bad company, drugs. It's all part of the Family Law. And in this Family Law, we really need to protect the dignity of children. But this is about talking, talking about how, where it's going to be charged, when it's going to be charged, and actually not a lot of talking about kids at all, and what it's going to be done if it can't be charged. Again, there are laws that determine this, but unfortunately these laws have neither been implemented until now nor will they be implemented. The state has a big role here, especially since here in the proposal says that a child up to 6 years should receive 17% of the average salary, ranging from 7 to 12 20% and 13 to 18 22%. Now imagine parents who don't work at all, father has about 1600 kuna monthly salary. Now imagine how much that child gets if it's 17% or 20% and imagine when a father has to pay that child to go on some kind of field trip. So I would really suggest that the state be involved in this if we want to protect this dignity of children, if we want to tell children that all children are equal, that all children are the same, then the state needs to invest in these children very much. And 20% as I've already said either 22 or I don't even know 30% of the 1600 kuna doesn't mean much to that child. The child will be stigmatized. He can be loved by his mother or father as much as he wants, but if the child is not equal with other children, then the child will not behave, and this will show the child both to his conduct and to his teaching and later to his society as much as everyone cares for the child. I repeat again that the most important thing is that children here are the subject of everything, that most should be addressed, most of all except the state there should be included in the media because we watch a lot of times when a father who doesn't pay child support, but the media are neatly showing how he has a yacht of 5 million euros or how he has a car, so it would be nice for the media to show you at the same time but that father didn't give a single kuna to support his child. It also bothers me that no one's watching or I don't know at least I haven't seen the welfare center under surveillance. We know very well how much trouble there is in this welfare center. Here, now a friend of mine is going through a divorce where the kids specifically asked to belong to him, specifically the kids asked to be with their father, and the kids showed how many moms they beat up, how many moms they demean. I've known that man from Canada since I was a kid and I know he's a decent and valuable man. But the welfare guys, the Social Services, they keep telling the kids that they belong with their mom, that they won't grow up right if they don't grow up with their mom. I think those kids should have been in first place and the Social Care Center if the kids are old enough, if the kids learn well, if the kids can answer for themselves, talk for themselves. So these children can be responsible and say who they want to live with. No one at that social center monitors how they work, whether they work by the book. Well, if our children are first, then there should be children first. Why would Mom be the only parent or only honest and upright parent? Or the lady who spoke to us who has three children where she hasn't been able to see her child for five years, her children. They sentenced the Centre for Social Care to assign children to a parent, a father who does not live in Zagreb, where Mom via the Social Care Centre and through the Attorney General is asking to see those children. Whenever they agree to come they never come, he doesn't bring the children, and the social worker then invents and says “so if you were good, if you had contacted the children what she can't, maybe they'd let you.” So, one of the big problems they want me to admit it or not, that's the Center for Social Care, and I would like some kind of reconstruction to be at that center to see that they are not purpose themselves, but that they are purpose to those children we all swear to and who we all want well but unfortunately only on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93450	Thank you. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93451	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, after the presentation on behalf of the clubs, I would like to thank you for a good, realistic and constructive debate. I would like to promise you that we will also work during the summer, that we will prepare changes and complement the Family Law in the final proposal and propose of course to the Government and then to the Parliament to discuss the final bill immediately at the beginning of the session in September. And of course I want to thank everyone, I want to thank the HSS Representatives Club for their proposal, we will invite the representatives of your club to make a final draft of the law, and I believe that we will come to the final results that will be on mutual satisfaction. It is a pleasure to me, of course, and to hear all the proposals that have been made here, of course, we will consider all the good proposals once again, try to put into the final draft of the law, even though you all know that we can move within the framework that is planned, so we can change something, add, improve the proposed amendments and supplement of the law otherwise broader in the Family Law, of course we can't touch it. I absolutely agree with everyone here who talked about the Family Law having to be in the best interest of the child. That's what I said and pointed out at the beginning of the debate, but I also agree that in the best interests of the child and when it comes to the protection of children in unfortunately decomposing families, so after the divorce, but also when it comes to adoption, we have to do a lot more than the welfare center and certainly to the courts. However, these amendments and additions to the law provide one good, even better, even stronger basis for this I repeat all of us and from the welfare centre to those who will make final decisions, these decisions can make much faster, much more quality and again absolutely in the best interests of the child. I would also like to perhaps just touch some of the provisions that I did not specifically elaborate in the opening part of, of course, relying on the changes and additions that speak of child protection, so on the payment of the alimony, means the payment of the abstention and re-emphasis that the claim is made from the date of the obligation and not from the time of the application. I think that's very important. It is also prescribed to maintain a adult child during school, I did not specifically speak at the beginning, provided that he regularly and neatly fulfils his school obligations and gives the child the right to seek and receive information about child training, i.e. on employment. So the provisions of the Family Law, as you know, say that the parent is obliged even after, or after the parents have completed schooling for another year to take care of the child, it's a good provision but now we give through the Family Law and the possibility, that is, through changes, to inform the parent to get the right information. We also extend the duty of the father of the child to pay compensation for the denied support of the mother of the child out of wedlock and in time to file charges. It's something we also consider a alignment here with real life and with real needs. In the proceedings against the first known abstention obligor, the complaint may also cover subordinate bonds in order to decide in one dispute on who and how much to support the person seeking the right to abstain. When determining the possibility of a maintenance provider, as we have repeatedly pointed out in this debate, the court will also consider its overall property situation, not only receiving and real opportunities, by asking and wanting this right now in the final word after the presentation of clubs, by asking for a checklist of assets. So I'm not going to list all those institutions that are in charge of the court, but I think that the reaction and the courts after these changes to family law will be different, that they will be able to solve more quickly and more promptly. What seems also important to me is when it comes to courts, the court commits itself to making a solution on a temporary basis already at the first hearing, which will require the defendant to pay a certain amount in the name of restraint, which opens up the possibility of the court's first-degree decision becoming enforceable. So at the first hearing, the court can make such a decision. That also seems particularly important to me. Of course, there was talk here of these minimum amounts that were scheduled for maintenance. We believe, I agree with many who have talked about it, that the parent of a child who avoids restraint, and to whom these are minimally high acts because they have nothing to live on, that simply everything he has must in some way share with the child, all that he owns must be shared with his child, and any escape to live hard, to live modestly, to live with meekly simply is not acceptable. And more about the adoption. I agree with all the debates about how far more must be done in this adoption process, that we must not tolerate neither indolence nor transfer responsibility to others, because here is the data we have and that I would now present saying that the situation is not good. In total, 137 girls and boys, 38 children aged up to one year, 50 from one year to the fifth year, 50 from the fifth to the tenth year, and only one child over 10 years of age were adopted last year. So only one kid over the age of 10. Unfortunately, in 2005, there was a little more, only three children over the age of 10, 2004. I can also tell you the data, in 2004 a total of 151 children, 2005. 153, and last year 137 girls and boys. So this total number that we're not satisfied with has actually been reduced. So let's do everything, and even with this shift of the highest age limit, let's do absolutely everything. I call, of course, on all the institutions that are obliged to participate in this process to really get involved, because it is about the welfare of children, about how they will grow up and, of course, in what kind of people they will grow up in, because children who do not have a family environment, who are not surrounded by the warmth of their homes and who are not surrounded by love, unfortunately grow up in such people. When spoken of, and we talk a lot about domestic violence, it is known that children growing up in the environment of violence, domestic violence often become violent themselves. Therefore, I thank you once again for a good and constructive debate. We will call on you in the finale, that is, to make a final proposal of the Law that perhaps some of the provisions that you have proposed together should be considered and we should make by September an even better proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93452	On behalf of the legislator, respected representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93453	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club as a Proposer of Amendments and Supplements, of course I would like to thank those few who have understood the importance of translation, but also those who did not look back on our Bill proposal because we do not consider them referring to the Bill's proposal because our argument that we gave this morning was about 10 hours that it was absolutely accepted and did not suffer any special debate. We also thank you for the promise of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Vice-President of the Government, which promises to invite us to another reading in order to agree therefore on another article in our proposal for a law relating to translation. We regret that we were not invited to agree on this article for the preparation of the amendment and the addition of this Law already in the first reading, because we had very much discussed the formulation of the article with the legal profession and, as such, he could have actually entered into the Amendments and Supplements Act in the first reading. We know that the draft amending and supplementing the draft draft draft amendments and additions to the Government proposal contained an article that was not on the trail of understanding of adoption institutes with parental effect in adoption with related effect. For example, this proposal for a law, the article provided for the possibility of translation and the adoption of a full - time family. So how is it possible that a full-time adoptor can initiate a translation procedure when he can't be himself to say it a little harshly, but so is this kind of adoption. Well, only a minor can adopt, that's the first reason. And the second reason, the adoptor is not at all a party in the process. He participates in the procedure, but no, he is not a party to the procedure. Therefore, as it comes to translation in a way that puts out of force a powerful solution, the process of amending that solution in a manner established by law can only be initiated by a party to the procedure. That's the adoptor. It is illogical and completely unwarranted to force both adoptors to initiate the procedure. Why would both adoptors start a procedure? It may be the will of one adoptor, with the consent of another adoptor, to translate that parental adoption into custody as an adoption that has a complete legal effect. It's unbreakable and he's well noticed by a colleague of Markov. The biggest handicap and lack of parental adoption is that it is break-up, it represents uncertainty for adopters, and on the other hand it does not create a full family legal effect on all family members, but only for parents. If the purpose of this Law, these amendments and additions to the Law are child protection, then we will indeed accept this translation to those adopters who have a parental effect in adopting a related effect in the way that Article 265 allows us to do so. The law on administrative procedure. So, according to our proposal for a law, the fundamental assumptions are that translation can only be sought by the sole adoptor, none other than the adoptor because he is not and cannot be a party to the adoption process, that the translation institute cannot be applied to an adoptive person who has become a minor. We could caricate a little here if foster parents could be an adult who knows who to adopt. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would adopt you if it could be a full-time adoption. That translation could not be carried out without the child’s approval if it was more than 12 years old and we worked it all out in the article of the Law. So, Madam Vice-President of the Government, take it with good faith, copy our article of the law, refer to the second reading of the amendment and the addition of the Family Law as soon as possible, and if you take the formulation as we have written then you will not have any objections to the Central Office for the State Administration because this proposal and this formulation of the article is fully in line with the legal profession and cannot be disproved at all, and the basis is certainly Article 265. The law on administrative procedure which gives the possibility to change the rightful solution, since it was the reason that the adoption solution is finally and legally and cannot be changed. That's just not true. So the Law on Administrative Procedure has given us the possibility to change the rightful solution, so here we are confident that we will indeed find a satisfactory solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93454	Otherwise, with this idea of yours, I'm really thrilled. It is indeed one and more commendable than one incentive to take it under your own, is it not? Yes, yes, very well. We just need to get to that as soon as possible, into taking it under your own. Individual debate, respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93455	Honored and wise President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93456	How am I? That's the other one. Too wise. [[Intruder: Too wise.]] And last time we said let's not go too far, even though it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93457	Now I agree that I've gone over at least 10 times, but what can we do? Look, I'm here to report to Mr. and colleagues with limited competences. The arguments on my side are purely experienced, and the next month, 35 years of my marriage turn out. I live in an extended family of three-generation with my girlfriend who raised, raised, emotionally fed my children and lived with a wife who belongs to the first round of Croatian feminists. I still think it was a lot harder for her to stand up to me than the other way around. They're limited competences. That's why he would read to all his colleagues to read the book Against Love by Laura Kippins. A book recently published in a brilliant proposal. The book explains how marriage is some sort of defined emotional gulag. And people get married based on the romantic literature they read in pre-puberty, puberty and post-puberty. Their expectations are high, and living in a family is very complicated. That's what every one of us knows. And because of this, I think there is something in Croatia that could be called the terror of minority political correctness that really leads to people who have a majority of each and every family belief and experience not having a legal word. The other day we witnessed two young people who made one, according to counterpart Kramaric, a charming provocation at the High House. These are two young boys who held hands and walked the Parliament. It is interesting that in the public as an anti-substance of their behaviour one man who has primitive views on the subject, a fellow former representative of Ante Kovacevic, who then presented himself in public as an anti-substance of such belief. In general, I think that in Croatia, this violent terror of minorities is in some way humiliating normal family values. You have on one television that the former coalition government sold to the Germans and some domestic tycoons on RTL TV is a show called "I Change Woman". The child looks at the evening and says these change the woman, why shouldn't Luka Bebić and Slaven Letica do so? Well, in that situation, I'd like to highlight two important facts here. The first fact is that the HSS club really proposed its legal changes a year before the government and that it should in some way cultivate intellectual property rights in all things and also propose legislation. And that's why it would really be good to make a handsome coalition by the second reading, so if you need the current ministers and candidates for her position, Mr. Ante Markov. But I'd call in here if I said something more important. Namely, the current minister hired as the head of the working group one of the leading experts in Croatia for thematics Family Rights fellow Dubravka Hrabar from one of the best Zagreb university departments, Department of Family Law of the Faculty. It would be good for the cathedral to be called the Department of Family Relations and Family Law. There is also a colleague, Aleksandra Korak, an international and European expert. When Ms. Minister's experts engage, unfortunately or fortunately, they must be entrusted with absolute trust. You're in charge of how much I see from published in the daily press of colleague Brave, her and her working group to work on one part of the Family Law amendments, mostly on the subject of abstention which is one of the crisis points of the current law. And then during your work on changes, you expanded that into the subject of adoption, contrary to its theoretical and human beliefs. I think that's bad. Today, everyone here has talked gently about increasing or increasing the age between adoptors and adopted as something useful, as people have long studied, lived longer, thought longer, and then can and later not know in the 40s, 50s, in perspective in the 1970s adopt children. Professor Brave, in her review of a rather unpleasant public controversy, sets out without any reason the arguments that speak convincingly for the retention of the existing age difference. The arguments are very simple. I'll read them here in short. Raising the age limit in adoption under the Family Law Amendment proposal will make it possible for elderly people to adopt small children, and those who are the biggest problem, these children over the age of five will remain uninteresting and undetectable. That's one argument I'd like to discuss until the second reading in the golden triangle between the motions of the laws of the HSS, the government and experts. And trust is fully entrusted to the experts. I know these people too well, I know that they are very careful about every word and key their argument that it is also a bad law if it is a long-term law and if it is based on careful education of the social work centre, which is referred to here by a fellow colleague, Ruža Tomasic, saying that there is simply one traditional prejudice within the centre, that whenever there is an arbitration between father and mother, children are given to their mothers, regardless of the circumstances and real emotional relations. General laws, unfortunately, regulate mainly materially legal and support and maintenance. Very little is said about the emotional feeding that is essential to these children. Ending this debate, I reminded myself of a teaching book that you can read over the summer and enjoy on one side, the book Against Love. But he would remind me of an article that I accidentally read last night, and the article was written by a prominent professor of clinical psychology and family psychology from Fletcher University in the United States. He dealt with the phenomenon of the sustainability of marriages. And he concluded that marriages and family communities existed longer if they socialized on the same literature, on the same music, on the same cultural and social patterns. I therefore welcome this proposal to address the issue of restraint in a more appropriate way. But he would bow to the opinion of experts, and in that sense, if the arguments of a working group leader were adopted, I would vote in favour of the law, and if they don't, I would be against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93458	Thank you. Three replicas. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93459	... The esteemed colleague Letica spoke very nicely and inspiredly about this subject. [[Specially enabled.]] I'd just try to look back at that part of the scale of things when it comes to age. We've got a situation today that's totally surreal. If the mother does not meet the age limit and the father pleases the mother, she can never become a mother. In the event of his father's death, he has no one, the child has no one. We just want these misunderstandings that happen to the truth on the margin to be removed rather than given the right to what he claims by respected experts that it's a metric. It's not a measure, it's a measure to correct the completely unacceptable states that come out of it. Can't be one parent parent and the other can't be. This must not be recognised by the Family Law. The husband and wife are one thing, and when it comes to adoption, they're both father and mother, and speaking of the other part, I said family adoption because we want a family together.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93460	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93461	Thank you. So I don't doubt your noble intentions. However, I will read only two sentences from Professor Brab's argument again. She says: The laws are written for an average man, not for someone by name and last name. The law must reflect the reality of life and it is that statistically, women's biological parents become the most common age of 25 to 29 and quotes them from the statistical yearbook for the past year in which only two women aged 50 and 44 women aged 45 to 49 became mothers. Therefore, her argument is theoretical and this is the emotional and political that I also bless, only I bow to the experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93462	It is missed to give a word to Vice President Luka Bebić for correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93463	Namely, I want to believe that my colleague Letica mentioned me, that the lapus made it into that. ... It's possible to change, but anyway, I'm pretty conservative and traditional, and besides, I think it would be such a suggestion if it happened a little prematurely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It would be premature for me. ... No, but it would be premature for me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93464	That's it. Second correction by the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Excuse me, replica. Jakša confused me now that he came here, then I look at Jakša, I look at Lalic, a colleague who is the same about adopting her speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93465	I'd be replicating my fellow Flight when he appealed here to respect the waist and their opinion. I respect the profession in every way, but I would like to say that this profession often a little bit and does not exactly stand behind its profession and what it says. Because those same people that you mentioned here, I said that in my speech, here three years ago, we were all convinced here at a meeting that there was nothing to change in Family Law when it comes to child support because that the existing solution in Family Law is absolutely enough to charge for child support. Today these individuals wrote and copied a good portion of the alimony fund into the Family Law. And on the other hand, their thesis on that and the argument that by removing the age limit will lead to the fact that older children will not be adopted. Well, simply, the data we just heard earlier showed that older children are harder to adopt. The Centres will now have the opportunity to single out the highest quality persons in the age structure and on all other grounds, which will be the best family for the child who will go into adoption. And such an upper age limit only solves the problem where we found ourselves for two or three months, so that one parent cannot meet the conditions so that he could be listed as a parent. And what's going to be a further problem is I said it here now in the debate and I've been saying it for years. That is the problem, therefore, of not moving forward with the process of taking away parental care. I really can't believe why and I don't know what the argument is that children are held at home until they're 5 or 6 years old, that parents never ask questions about them, but they're very violent towards people in the center and then people go along a line of less resistance. So where's the child's interest? I think that the interests of the child above all the people in the center have certain mechanisms and must use everything to take care of the parent as soon as possible and enable the child to find a family who will adopt it as soon as possible. Here, there's a key problem. So there won't be a problem in that age limit that's being erased at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93466	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93467	In the last sentences, I absolutely agree with my colleague that in irresponsible parenting, it is necessary to shorten the deadlines for child abduction even though it is a word, the notion of child abduction is incorrect especially because the law that I have seen suggests that if it is in the child's interest to see regular biological parents even though it is adopted. It's one solution that I think is discriminatory but I'm not an expert and I think an emotional schizophrenia is being introduced into this situation when a child has shared loyalty. I personally have one experience first with a adopted child. It was one great film camera of Croatian television that was adopted and lived his whole life divided between biological and social, emotional loyalty. As for colleagues and experts, the theory changes and adapts to changed circumstances. We're going to have virtual marriages in perspective, we're going to have different kinds of situations in perspective that we can't predict. I end up with people who give symbolic support to, say, alternative types of life. I'd like to say that my colleague Banac and Luc's stories are symbolically hand-to-hand and walk down to support these boys who showed up here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93468	And where are the two of them? They're not here right now. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93469	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Just what Honorable colleague Letica was saying, which supported Mrs. Ruža Tomasic's presentation. In fact, it is frightening to say that according to the latest surveys conducted in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 48.7% of support parents do not comply with their legal obligation. It's a really scary data. This is the information that tells enough about the situation in the family and what problems children are exposed to, and how unfortunately the relationship between parents who are and tycoons, who act and benefactors and everything else and do not support their children. I think we must all be deeply concerned about this information and see how, in which way all these things are solved because obviously that part of the family must be the foundation. But obviously there are big problems because there is, in the end it is said that there are about 43,000 children up to 18 years of age without restraint. Really catastrophic, catastrophic data that says that both the government and we all have to have different care and family and all that because if this keeps up, I don't know where it's going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93470	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93471	The shortest answer would be: the situation is bad but it will be much worse. Because that means we go into such a practice of society where irresponsible parenting and when it comes to paternity or motherhood will increase. It's a trend all over the world. In this regard, it is very good to publicly support people who are a positive example. There's a lot of them. Say colleague Milanka Opačić is such a positive example. But Bellimir Boban is also a magnificent example. It means who also adopts such children. We must create a culture for children to be adopted for love and to support such positive examples as culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93472	Thank you. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93473	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Family Law in the form in which the proposed best pictures are of the work of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which takes great care of the family as a basis for society. A series of laws and acts that have so far been proposed by the Ministry has greatly helped to create better conditions for living, working and family standards for young people who create new families and raise children, extending maternity leave, increasing maternity benefits, and caring for the oldest and powerless members of the family through the repayment of debt to pensioners, assistance in the house, organized living room for older and powerless and other forms of assistance. Today, we are witnessing that young couples are becoming less and less determined by marriage mates. That we have more and more divorced marriages. More and more single mothers and fathers have caused problems in today’s society that we have not faced in this number in the recent past. According to the latest data in the Republic of Croatia, about 50% of maintenance parents do not comply with their legal obligation so that about 43,000 children aged up to 18 years are without restraint. I find that information really alarming. Therefore, changes and additions to the Family Law are necessary in order to bring order into this area and are also a reflection of the sensitivity of the Government and the Ministry of the newly created living conditions and of the problems families face today. I support the proposed changes made by this law that we are discussing today because it will greatly contribute to solving some of the problems that are present in everyday life, and they, like the inability to exercise the right to support a child of many single mothers and fathers who are still significantly less, will address the issue of existence and the achievement of minimum material conditions for work or for life. In particular, I would like to commend the provision of the Law, which will allow a child who has never been supported by parents with whom he does not live to demand compensation during the day of the obligation and not since the time of the application. This will correct at least part of the injustice the child suffers. It is also important to take into account, when determining the possibility of child restraint, the total assets of the abstention debtors and not only their incomes. We have often had in practice cases where fathers or mothers possess very valuable properties or expensive vehicles and are led as unemployed on the labour market or often change the address to avoid the obligation to support a child with whom they no longer live. One of the newspapers in this Bill Proposal that should also be pointed out is certainly also an obligation to maintain a full-time child during school, provided that he regularly and neatly fulfils his school obligations. A more significant and increased role of the Centre for Social Care should also facilitate the implementation of this law and facilitate the achievement of the rights arising from the proposed text. I also have a good solution to determine the duty of the Centre for Social Care to launch and lead a case of restraint on behalf of the child and to seek the implementation of the Child Support Decision. The role is also the task of the Centre for Social Care to contribute to methods of extrajudicial procedure to encourage parents to pay for child support they do not live with. It is also provided for the duty of the Centre for Social Care to file criminal charges against a person who does not fulfil his or her maintenance duties on a regular basis and on a full basis. I've made only some of the proposed measures and solutions that I hold most important. They can also say that the changes and additions of the Family Law have spurred a great interest in those whom they refer to, and especially in single mothers whose children do not exercise the right to support from parents they do not live with. So these days I've had numerous contacts with single mothers from the area I come from. And I can say that they expressed their gratitude to the Government and the Minister for the proposed solutions and expect as soon as possible to pass laws and objections to these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93474	Thank you. Two replicas, the first respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93475	Dear colleagues talk about it and that is one of the biggest problems that is frustrating and the parties, and the court that decides and has to decide on, on the basis of the abstention application, and ultimately leads to the consequences that children often experience and become adulthood without obtaining restraint. It's when you talk about parents who even publicly manifest, and most often it's men who don't support their own children, so where they're produced exactly by property, but which is legally not recorded as their property, and this unfortunately doesn't change by law. The law determines who the court can address anything for data. Tax administration, FINA, Ministry of the Interior and so on, however, this court could have done so far and has even done so. Therefore, it is even, but it is not a problem that the law now defines it even though you have it in the Law on litigation and in the Law on Courts. But the biggest problem is that when it comes to, and what to do about unsecured assets. Therefore, the basic message of this law should be: a healthy parent, one who is capable of supporting his child. And it's over. Whether or not the property is registered. Let him manage even if he doesn't work because he's capable and able to work. After all, that is exactly what intensity is, it has always been the principle of family law that parents are obliged to support their children. And the question is how many countries have the strength and the mechanisms to implement this principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93476	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93477	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, you've listed some of the problems that I think we're dealing with right now. Of course, it is not always possible to determine the list of assets of everyone, nor will it ever be possible. But this is exactly how this law and these amendments protect the rights of the child and this very instruments that you have stated that it will be possible for the child to truly be better and better-quality in order to exercise its rights, to exercise the right to abstention, and especially that it will no longer be like the day of the lawsuit, but from the day of these obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93478	Second replica, Honored Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93479	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the data, this terrible data that Mrs. Ahel presented in her debate about the number of divorces in Croatia and the number of parents who, after divorce, did not contribute to the support of their children, invited me to report for the replica and to say, to express my surprise. Croatia is a country with the highest number of divorces and unfortunately the largest number of parents who do not carry out their obligations after the divorce, and we live in a country, in a society that 94 or 5% of citizens declare themselves to be believers. Faith teaches us that the fundamental values of every society are family, marriage children, and how do we interpret it now? How, what are these arguments that make us even have to pass such laws if we swear to faith and live a religious life. And I answered exclusively to send my message that we should really question ourselves and say "my sin, my sin too much" but frankly, not just campaigning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93480	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93481	Dear colleague, I really agree with you that these data are alarming and that we must do everything as a society to protect not only children but family, and of course this is what we need, each of us should take it from home. And the role of parents is not only to provide material resources for the child's life, but also to the extent that Letica spoke emotionally. Therefore, of course it is a big problem but not just Croatian societies. I believe that this is a major problem both in the modern world and in this way we should fight, and I believe that as a Catholic country and through the education of children in the church, we will influence that the family as a traditional community is preserved and that those values should certainly be nurtured even in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93482	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93483	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, if we are starting with the fact that I really think that this is so, that family is one of the fundamental fundamentals of every society, then certainly we should encourage measures and strengthen measures that will also strengthen the family and also strengthen society as a whole. We've already brought in a series of incentive measures in this House. When we start with a three-year maternity leave, an increase in maternity benefits, an increase in child's equipment, an increase in child's allowance, an increase in the number of children covered by child's allowance, and this is now free textbooks and free textbooks for secondary schools and transportation. All of this will improve the position of the family, but it will improve both the position and the children we are discussing today. I certainly believe that this law will strengthen the responsibility of parents, irresponsible parents, and when we look at this information that about 48% of parents do not perform their parental duty, then it is indeed a data that needs to be deeply concerned about us all and what kind of society we create when so many parents do not fulfil their parental duty. Then how does he meet some of the other obligations they've given them? That's why I'm here to support all the assets. In the debates, it has been pointed out that it is difficult what is with unregistered assets and I believe that in the future period, and even now many measures have been taken that more and more of the property that is registered, that we will have a tax number that will be able to record it. But we also need to create meanings and a society where people would be in a state of wealth, here you mentioned yachts, expensive cars, and I don't know what it is but that it's simply inadmissible behavior so those who are able don't meet their basic, basic obligations, which is to support their children. It is certainly good that the claim means it can be carried out from the date of the commitment, not as so far as it has been from the submission of the request. Of course it's a good thing there's a possibility of a settlement. Sometimes your actions are tiring and long - term. We see that they'll be shorter now. But the possibility of a settlement is good for both a child and a family. Unfortunately, we witness the fact that all of those misunderstandings that are in one family are then broken over by children and so that all of them are, in fact, the negatives that we feel toward another are actually passed over by children, while neglecting the child’s interest. Because it's certainly the child's interest to see the other parent uninterruptedly, to see the other grandmother and grandfather, and to see that he will be able to see both an out-of-wedlock friend or a stepmom. It is also good that if parents do not carry out their obligations to take over the obligation of their grandparents. I think it's okay if it's ultimately both moral and necessary. But it has already been pointed out here, and I would like to point out this especially because I know such cases that it is now a child's allowance that it is the right of a child and it is obtained by a parent who, for example, shows no interest in supporting his child either because it was a parent after the death of a wife or a husband or after a divorce. He does not support that child at all, and he receives a child’s allowance until grandparents who take care of such a child receive that compensation. I think it would really be necessary to fix that. When it comes to the initiation of proceedings, it is good that it is now the duty of the Centre for Social Care, because often another parent has been for fear, for any other reason, it is actually being tightened from the initiation of a judicial procedure and it is good that it means that it is the duty of the Centre for Social Care to run and to conduct such a procedure. There's been a lot of talk here about the age limit. I support this measure to remove the age limit. I think it was necessary to do that because here's one piece of information that I've been able to find talks about up to 35 years being 20% adoption. From 35 to 40 years 50%, from 40 to 45 20% and over 45 only 5%. I think this elimination of the age limit will stimulate adoption, especially in these children we've seen to be a particular problem with the adoption of children of 5 or 10 years and over. I think that this could encourage parents who are older to then adopt children who are 10 years old and older. We also have about 1,500 children a year being admitted to our children's homes and being about 500 applications per year for adoption, and we see that in these adoptions we are not really effective, that in 2004, it was 151, 2005. 153, 2006. 137 and we really think that here is this law, and all other ways we should simply encourage adoption as well as foster care that we will discuss later, because this is all our main tendency for children and other persons to be in institutions and as much as possible in the family. So I think that all these measures taken will mean fostering one responsible parenting, encouraging the adoption of children and, in general, the safety of children, and that is exactly our goal. We see that for the implementation of this law that 93 million kunas are needed in 2008 which is indeed a respectable asset that will be here when parents are meant to be, so far there has been the possibility of giving this temporary fee, means that they do not remain unsettled unless the parent fulfils its duty, that they will continue to receive through the Social Care Centre this temporary compensation that is true 50% less than the minimum amount when it comes to child benefits, but still represents a temporary solution and one temporary security, so here I fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93484	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93485	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I support the changes and additions of the Family Law and I believe that these changes and complements are a quality, better said quality solution to protect the family, especially the most vulnerable group in this family, which is a child, they are children. They have always been of special interest to us and always one target group to which society must pay greater attention and which it must protect, I would say, from all sides and all aspects. With the adoption of amendments and additions to the Family Law, Ms. Minister also stated in her presentation that there were serious reasons. Thus, the reasons for the adoption of these changes in custody have been observed that due to child restraint, litigation takes several years, and many parents use different ways and avoid maintenance obligations and the need to improve both material and legal protection of children has been observed. Of course, these divorces are growing and if today’s trends continue in the future of four out of ten marriages will end with a divorce, one in four children will have a divorce of their parents by the end of the 16th birthday, and one in eight children will be taken care of in a foster family. In 2005, there were 22 thousand 138 marriages in Croatia, of which 4 thousand 833 divorces, so marriage lasted on average 14 years. The divorce says that in every large number of cases of trauma that marks not only former spouses but also children, I would say that marriage, divorce, is always a trauma for both spouses and children. But when you see it after the divorce, then comes the bitter fact that after the divorce, the standard of living falls on average 27% and that men grow by 10%. How most children are assigned to their mothers for restraint then we can understand the position in which all these women are in. If we see it said and always looked, because people learn from others, from other people's experiences, then says one time I'm divorced I won't get divorced another time, but it has proved wrong because more often and much more often the marriages of the other than the first. If you look at it too, says a life together before marriage that is a good basis for a permanent marriage, then statistics have shown that it is not enough, that simply in this life together before marriage there is evidence that simple marriage is perceived as something that is temporary and something that can be interrupted very quickly. When it is said that children of divorced parents are essentially less divorced and that is wrong, because children of divorced parents are in a larger proportion than children of married parents. And when a colleague on this side said that it's surprising that there's so much and the percentage of the divorce of marriages, and that we're still a conservative, one Catholic country where in those lists we say more than 90% as such, then there's really a question that there's one serious... that the question is within ourselves. Where we are and what question we have answered honestly. Of course, it must strive that according to our faith that we consider marriage as a permanent institution, I would say to the eternal institution that there would be less problems here, because we need to know, she said, and I agree with Mrs. Opačić when she said that she should work on partner therapy, of course because pediatricians have found that divorce increases the risk of psychological disturbances of children and that whatever these problems become bigger, the older they grow, the bigger it is. That's why I should really see what it means to help children in this case, but I think first of all to develop mechanisms to strengthen the hit Croatian family, how to help it survive those moments when it seems to have been hit, that it cannot overcome what is before it and prevented it. A colleague in her debate with Opačić said that someone said the best was the worst you said, and the worst biological mother is better than the foster mother. Of course, if it's taken out of some context. Then you can say that, yes. But every mother we say and we know that in different years of life it depends on culture, depends on where it comes from, that it can be rocked at some point. However, if we have mechanisms to give her support, what it is to encourage her motherhood, what it is to encourage her in her marriage to overcome it, and to remain a good mother. No one can replace a biological mother, but allow them and biological mothers for certain moments and certain intervals of their lives have I would say their weaknesses. And with this particular question, with this Amendments Act, these amendments and the additions of the Law, you answered the question when many mothers say how to tell children that Dad doesn't give them a single kuna. Of course we can say that, don't always talk to your mother, it's that in the highest percentage she speaks to your mother, but there are also fathers whose children are trusted and mothers don't give a single kuna. I'm saying according to what the fathers are, they're in a smaller percentage. Almost 48% of single parents in Croatia do not receive alimony from former partners and avoid it in different ways. And he says 3 and a half thousand marriages are divorced annually in Croatia. Only 217 were able to agree on the payment, meaning 3 and a half thousand only 217 were able to agree on the payment of the alimony, and the rest were all held by court disputes, which is of course a great burden and courts, but with these amendments and additions of the Law, there must be such proceedings and priorities in court disputes. Of course, these children experience I say psychological changes, experience different disorders, and even when they are involved in preschools, school institutions, and when your parents simply don't have enough to settle costs, and how one mother says they call me in front of the whole class because they haven't paid for a meal at school, and where to pay for it when I don't have one. It could've been... with this Law and as rigorous as some countries have shown, so for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Poland that says under that parole you have for gasoline, you have for a child, so automatically if the parent doesn't pay for the alimony, his driver's license is taken away until he's established a payment mechanism... By amending and supplementing the Law on Alimentation and Maintenance, and thus also our Ombudsman for children joined it and I say set up a mechanism for free lawyers to enforce alimony. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much this will contribute along with the amendments to this Law will show time. The second part of this Family Code has experienced its changes in adoption and I think, in adoption, and I think that's good. Many say, here we have heard complaints that all age limits are above, which the age limit has been abolished. I think what Mr. Letica said to the expert who objected, I think she also gave the child's attorney in that sense an objection to the removal of the upper limit for adoption, but from my practice as I worked with my parents, it will rarely occur to you when a person of advanced age decides to have a small child. It's just what she tells me, and my parents tell me they don't have the strength. So at a more advanced age, the most parents who have decided on this spell go with school children, the most they go for children who they think will be easier to deal with than to adopt a small one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93486	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93487	And, fellow Members, you said no one could replace a biological mother. It is simply not true, and it is life that deny us, and even the law itself, and even these amendments to the Law go on track and strengthen this institute and adoption precisely on the basis of the fact that a biological mother or a biological parent has not taken responsibility. So I think when we talk about these issues, about raising children, about supporting them, that they are primarily a matter of consciousness and responsibility, and less biology and instinct. The one who decided to create a child has decided to take responsibility, and the least important thing is his instincts and let's not. And often about that, so this thinking of yours can't be replaced by a biological mother. There are bad biological mothers, there are bad biological fathers who are irresponsible fathers, so then you can see what we're dealing with most today because so far the state has shown that it's ineffective to contain such irresponsible behavior. But then what we have to do at all, because the fact that you're self-absorbing, which was first inspired by a colleague of Peru, is that it's a shame that there are so many parents, most of the time it's men who don't support their own children. This opposes and seems possible in order to avoid that responsibility, and here we declare ourselves to be Catholics who have a very important family, and then probably all the obligations that come from family life. Unfortunately, there is much more, here I would quote Don Grubisic that our Catholicism is more ritualistic, and less active, but we must all ask ourselves why we have come to such a situation that it is such a devastating situation that so many people do not support their own children.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93488	Replicate response, distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93489	My colleagues, I will continue to say that the birth mother is irreplaceable, irreplaceable under quotes. No, you're saying that because you don't have that practice. I worked in practice and I know the child lived, it wasn't adopted because that's exactly what our law doesn't allow. If a biological parent cannot appear once in 3 months, this has been the case so far, it cannot be initiated to adopt or adopt a child. However, despite the fact that my friend was giving this child everything, he was pulled out by the institutions, that child lived for those three months, for those five minutes when biological parents would arrive. Are we here as well as the society as a failure to give those biological parents all the support to keep their child, that's another thing. And I just think that it should take a lot, a lot more work to do, and then we'd work less on this and have happier families. And any one who declares himself to be Roman Catholic must know that marriage is lasting and eternal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93490	The second replica of the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93491	Says Mrs. Lucia Chickesh that a biological mother can have some problems sometimes, so here's what I understand. It should give her a lot more space to change some of her decisions. I think that maybe we should think more about it and wonder what we've been doing as a society to, for example, a number of young girls who are here in some homes in what it's called mother's care so where they're waiting to have a baby and can stay for up to a year, what have we done to that girl for example, that if she can't go back to her place to get a job, get some kind of roof over her head, so she can take care? He can't go under the clear sky and live with that child and take care of him. That's the first one. And secondly, when you say no one can replace a biological mother, you are now confirming that you are giving a birth to a biological mother, which means you are not giving the child an advantage. And I'm going to ask you if you really think she's the best biological mother and that she should be given the advantage of the one who, for example, slit her throat yesterday to her five-year-old girl, the mother who broke her palate into her three-year-old. So do you really think that biological mother is still better than any responsible parent? I advocate the right of a child left in a home to get another family to take care of him, not to grow up in an institution because the traumas of an institution are simply too big and living with these traumas all their lives. And I stand for Mrs. Not for a biological mother who is irresponsible but for a responsible parent.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93492	Replicate response, distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93493	My fellow Menace! I'll always stand up for my birth mother but that doesn't mean I'm not advocating the right of a child, the right of a child in the first place. But I'm saying that a child is best with a biological mother if we support her. You who set examples, such drastic ones, I can't begin to imagine, let alone that, and no one is so much, so much so as to give such a mother. It's already a disease that you're bringing up. And such a mother that we cured would not have happened. And that we recognized the disease. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93494	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93495	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions of the Family Law have just taken a step forward. However, regardless of what the Constitution requires, the Croatian Constitution requires the State to protect motherhood, children and youth and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions and despite the adopted Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges Member States to provide protection and care to the child through appropriate legislation, administrative measures as it is necessary for them to not only have a happy childhood but also to become a responsible member of a particular community. The living conditions necessary for the child’s development are primarily required to provide parents or other persons responsible for the child depending on their abilities and material abilities. Despite these and Croatian Constitutions and conventions, however, this concern and education and restraint may be lagging behind. And it was these amendments to the legal provisions that strengthened the government's duty to ensure a decent life, a carefree childhood so that they could learn, that they could later become responsible members of a particular social community. And I will again point out what really is this proposal seems to me most meaningful among other things, which is that restraint is improved, it becomes really effective, and it is precisely the provisions that are governed by the proceedings before the courts that are starting with common provisions and the participation of the Social Care Centre and the special litigation procedures. In fact, often times it happened that because of bad delivery or unfulfilled delivery, she could not file a lawsuit, not in any written form, and in which case, who suffered the most? It was that child who was to be given support. It is, of course, in addition to a very clear provision in Articles 54 and 55 that the court which made the decision on the maintenance of a minor or a minor... The parent is carrying out parental care, they can, in this case, be initiated according to the official duty of the exercise to pay for maintenance which makes it even more effective precisely for judicial proceedings in these important procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also due to such a provision that if persons who are obliged to contribute to child restraint, if they do not comply with that obligation for more than six months, that exactly the detention centre, the Social Care Centre will take up maintenance by official duty and maintain a certain person until that normal abstention relationship is restored. In addition to all such provisions, it is important to point out that we want to allow all those who remain abandoned, who have not had the opportunity or biological parents to care or institutions for it, to enable them to precisely move the age limit and to enable adoption of the relations of persons with an upper age limit from 21 years to the highest age limit. No statistical research should be done, but it should simply be made possible, as this bill also stated, to remove these borders, to create only a legal framework, because, if it approaches a responsible adopted child, this result will be a fully well-bred child who will later be able to become a full and responsible member of the community to whom it belongs. Such legal provisions are necessary not only because, in some way, the conventions force us to do so, but because this is exactly what the ministry's proposal is about, that life situations can be protected by law to enable the effectiveness of the very proposed legislation. Of course, it is still going in the direction of precision stated in Article 26 that it will depend precisely on the age limit of the child and are clearly listed from 6 to 17 and from 7 to 12 years respectively, so that 13 to 18 how much of the salary will be taken away from the person who is obliged to give it. Of course, it was going to enable those who gave restraint to keep a certain means of life, but the court will, when assessing how much it takes to maintain, determine that level of restraint on the basis of total assets, not just on a given part. Also, against the second-degree decision on the maintenance of a minor child or child under whom parents receive parental care after their age, an audit is allowed. A very important legal remedy that guarantees that after all legal medicines are exhausted, they will be possible to protect that child. Of course, both in the transitional and final provisions, the proposer took note and said that these rules also relate to those relationships that occurred before the entry into force of this law, which is one exception in legal practice. However, just because it is protected in the best possible way is a provision that is just useful and welcome. That is why I believe that this will really be one important step in promoting and protecting Croatian families, all of its members because here for the first time I feel more clear about the rights and obligations of stepmothers, stepdaughters, stepdaughters, grandparents, grandparents and all the relationships that govern the care of parents, but also so that the child must take care of parents as well as grandparents and vice versa. That is why I believe this bill is already a high consensus of all the supporters that even during the debate there will be improved legal provisions. Excellent approach and so be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93496	Thank you. Replications. First respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93497	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to believe what my colleague Peronja is saying that we are going to make this law really this lengthy step that all these problems that are related to children are solved but unfortunately I do not think it will be like this without strengthening one social responsibility and a general social consciousness because I say I am going back to the fact that about 43,000 children are up to 18 years of age without restraint. So we have this problem that parents biologically or already biologically waved. Because it can't be anything but a biological parent who doesn't take care of his children and doesn't pay child support for what needs to be maintained. And such a biological parent certainly isn't a good parent. But we also have to consider another fact here. We are talking about three population measures, so we are not satisfied with the general population policy in Croatia. And now that we see these indicators, it is unfortunately not enough just to pass the law and make changes, but it is obvious that we have to launch one whole social action, social responsibility together with the church and with all the relevant ones who can help in this part to strengthen the family, that children have all the care and that as such, the possibility is that they can be involved and educated and everything that every child needs and the state and society can provide. And it's good to discuss this problem today because it's visible that we're moving on that the problem is unfortunately more and more. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93498	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93499	It is precisely this proposed law, amendments and additions of the Family Law that strengthens the responsibility of those who are legally obliged to have, but neither is it, that I agree with my colleague Kovacevic, is not enough if other institutions of the system are starting with parents, teachers, creditors, teachers, and we also have to contribute here to the fact that the family has always been and always has been, and that we are seeking to be a pillar of society from which children who will be able to be good and decent students and later students, and finally the working people of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93500	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93501	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we're talking about good law today, and I admit it's a good law. However, there is one thing that I expected would appear at least in an explanation, which is the issue of starting a family in Croatia. Because in Croatia, we know that in many areas, especially in rural areas, there are countless men younger, older, even those who will surely never marry again, who will never marry, start a family and not a word about why. At least we could do some kind of statistic, show how many there are. I know a place in Slavonia where there are 268 people over the age of 28 who have not been married. Is the question of job shortages, lack of accommodation, perhaps the question is the lack of women. Someone needs to be questioned. If there was a question of women's lack, we should have been in that immigration strategy even though we were talking about immigration policy predicting such a case. Well, maybe these women from Ukraine, for example. ... All right, let's pick another country. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] From Germany, for example. But I want to problem one thing that is certainly evident in Croatia, and that is a large number of men who do not enter into family creation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93502	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93503	In fact, I agree in one part that we have to have in statistics and as much information as married, single, married, single. But marriage is free will of men and women, and marriage is therefore a community of men and women who enter freely. For example, and Lovrec from the Dalmatian Mountains and... on the island of Hvar is equal to the number, about 135 single or actually single men. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one stopped them from getting married but I don't think anyone wants to. And no one's even capable of getting married. But if he's capable and he wants to adopt a child, it's this law that gives him an extenuating opportunity here because he can adopt it from the 21st and until he's old. It's the most useful actually, the most useful newspaper of this very law. Not everyone's getting married is not everyone's wedding.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93504	There's 3 places in Slavonia. One of these is, he didn't name it, but there are 3 particularly characteristic where there are to that extent old... who will not be married or beaten with a lion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's what's not around, right? Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93505	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. With this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, it is wanted to be resolved, and this intensity should be immediately welcomed and approved to put an end to irresponsible parents, even if they are biological parents. Those who were first invited to take care of their own children. So to end the fact that children are indisputable and sad to experience adulthood without being held back. But the question arises at all, and perhaps the thought of guidance should then be fully worked out in this bill. I hope that the applicants will also listen to the remarks so that by the final proposal they can really have a law that implements the principle of parents are obliged to take care of their underage children and adult children who are regularly educated or who are not capable of living on their own. And the question is, how did we get to this situation that so large a number of parents, and most often it's men who demonstrate and mock, demonstrate so force, mock every authority that it's powerless to charge for and for whom? Not to take it for herself, but to give it to their own child. I don't think that's the shame of the state any longer. And that here we must all agree together to find the best mechanisms to put an end to it. For what? Because first of all, those costs are borne by who? He's carrying a pensioner. He's carrying that worker who's working hard to feed his own children. And they're going to have to do it like this because it's the cost of then the state, feeding the child of those who were told by the Minister and colleagues to walk around and thus publicly show their luxury, and they won't at the same time, and they won't pay for the support of their own child. But there's something about one relationship that I'm thinking about wrong, social relations and one political climate that should be contained that a woman right now has a mother's duty to take care of her child. And these problems arise only in the divorce of a child and when that mother requires child restraint. So from the outset, not only should we create climate and atmosphere but we should also find those provisions in any law that, in a direct or indirect way, brings both men and women into a different, unequal position not only in public life but also in the family. The solution is that women become more public, therefore more public affairs so that they can also enable men to participate more in family life. Then this kind of thing wouldn't happen. Or there would certainly be fewer. In this, I would say something specifically already on this occasion although it is about first reading, but precisely because it would, in order to improve this law. And precisely on the trail of today's statement by the Constitutional Court of Professor Krapec, who says that it is even a patriotic duty and rightly speaking to judges and those who apply the law to oppose laws that are not good laws, which have contradictions within them, in order to remove this and to improve these things, and ultimately, the law has its purpose to apply to those to which such laws apply, and also to those which are subject to such laws to justice for that justice to be served, or the law to be applied. So I will immediately refer to the provision of Article 2 which, where it is well discussed, speaks of the dispute or the establishment of motherhood or paternity. And I'm about to say something about challenging motherhood and that woman, and that woman who contests motherhood to the woman who gave birth to the child but to her ovary without her knowing and without her approval. We introduced that a few years ago into the Family Law. Now, with this change, even some improvements in this sense seem to be, and more specifically, it even defines its consent as having to be certified consent and so on, which is certainly good. However, I warn again of one illogicality that happened to the last, last change to the Family Law, which therefore restored the old definition of mother. And today, in today's, and that's not covered by this amendment to the law, and in today's definition, you have an incontrovertible assumption from the Roman right that the mother of the child is always the one who gave birth to the child. So why do you need these provisions to challenge motherhood and these women? We must therefore coordinate and return to that change that was before 2004. So in 2003 it seems to me that this change happened where we have to relativize that definition and define the mother, that the mother is, as a rule, the woman who gave birth to the child. That's how we allow it to prove itself the other way around. If you stay this way, the courts already point to such illogicalities. I ask that it be fixed and I believe that it will be improved because there are no politicizations and no ideologies, because here is the proposer who recognizes such situations. So let's let the courts apply the law. Then it's necessary to do so. In this provision of Article 9, there were speeches and promises that the child would also be able to ask for the age of a parent who did not pay for his abstention but, unfortunately, here is now in the provision of Article 9 of the statute of limitations for 5 years for maintenance claims. Well, that's what you should think about. So we should just abolish that possibility and discourage all those who would think that they were past that obligation. And on the trail of what the government has promised and said, it seems to me that the government's representatives on several occasions have said that such provisions, that kind of demand, will not go out of date. It is certainly necessary to welcome this provision to bring temporary detention, i.e. temporary measures already at the first hearing. The court could have done that by now. Unfortunately, it was simply through procedures that it was out of the ordinary to do so, and then judgment would have been passed before and then temporary restraint in judgment. So it was out of its mind and lost and a general temporary measure of its purpose. If it doesn't come right away, then it doesn't have to be brought. Therefore, this provision should be particularly insisted because it means a significant step forward and the elimination of irregularities and injustices that occurred during the procedure. However, this provision, which has been incorporated, is now even more extended in this bill, which strengthens the responsibility of grandparents. It is logical, but it should only be specified in the law when forced payment is made to those who are primarily obliged to support, so parents or guardians, and only then transfer responsibility to those old people, to grandparents, who can then be quite, very old. I can be 90 years old. Then the state doesn't care if they retire, because they're safe receipts. This is where the state will be charged immediately. They have a pension like that. So, it won't bother the state that this old man or an old woman is over 80 years old, and when it comes to adoption, then we're very thoughtful about how old he is, whether he's over 40, 45, whether he's biologically capable of getting more women pregnant or not. So, we have to be congenital. Please, nice. And keep Grandma and Grandpas more like those who provide warmth and love, and materially relieve them to the fullest extent possible. Because the country's usually out there draining water, electricity, it's very efficient. So, that's exactly what I'm appealing to. So, let's keep it as one reserve as it has been until now that Grandma and Grandpa are obliged to support their grandchildren, but only then if forced. So, if there was even a punishment, the application of a prison sentence that the one who was obliged to support it didn't do it, so he went to prison. So it's only in that ultimate and ultam of linae. So, at the very end of the line, such a single responsibility should not be taken down by wet people, such a single responsibility. It seems to me that here it is quite justified to note that an out-of-marriage friend is obliged to refrain, therefore and to pay for restraint, the father of an extramarital child is obliged to pay the fee for the denied abstention referred to in the first paragraph of this article during the application. But I would also draw attention to the fact that the father, that the provision should be incorporated, that the father is obliged to support the mother of the child before that child is born if she is incompetent, and it is biologically possible to determine that already and now. So, especially in recent months to keep the child's birth and health safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93506	Thank you very much. There's one remark just don't put us grandpas under the old people and all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93507	Oh, well, then, just tough grandpas, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93508	There's a lot of us grandparents here, and we're very strong and we're grandmothers. Replica is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, a colleague of Ingrid's, as well as a large number of colleagues and colleagues, had previously started responsible parenting, and with regard to the norm of a part of the law that determines, regulates the obligation of responsible parenting, I think the law is good. However, in that part of the implementation of this law, and also this law that we later have changes to the Social Welfare Act will not, but believe me, do anything in the light of these provisions of the law when we come to a single community in Croatia that we often pretend does not exist, and we are talking about the minority community of Roma in Croatia where these problems of family relations, responsible parenting explode and are constantly present in the most dramatic ways. For example, if 10% of students finish primary school, if children's rights are material income from child's allowance onward, not children's rights but the source of family income and earnings, if begging is a practice rather than an exception, if a terrible increase in criminality is a rule rather than an exception, and if the birth mother is generally 13 years old, not 18 or 20 rule rather than an exception, and the number of cases of state intervention in such a family is zero or one prominence. Perhaps for a large part of Croatia he means nothing, but where this community is numerous and where socialization and co-existence should take place these problems with these laws, Mrs Kosor, and this, and this behind of social care will unfortunately not solve the problem if the state's mechanisms and powers will not be strengthened. The rights are huge days, surveillance, control and respect, because of their ordinary right that has stronger than the legislative one, unfortunately the state does not answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93510	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93511	Well, it's actually the essence and backbone of not only this law, but of this law itself. But there should be other laws of responsibility. So we have to talk about responsible parenting every time we talk about it. Now it's a question and I point it out again as the state that this fundamental principle is that parents are obliged to support children in the work. So, where the state, where this avoids the debtor of restraint, where it avoids the duty to give restraints to a centre that then gives support to a child. But the center might be where I use this opportunity to draw attention to the proposer. So, all those mechanisms that are good and that remove obstacles in the litigation process, these same provisions should also apply when the centre is suing that person. So, the centre that gave support to that child, so according to the same fast and effective norms that improve the acquisition of restraints, so the regressive requirement towards such an unconscious person is rapid and effective. In this way, protection and means are protected and made possible precisely, providing such funds for the State's intervention again in some other cases. But if we give the state, or the centres, if they're disabled, or they go into that long-term process, then they're simply going to spill over, they're going to drown somewhere. Therefore, those funds should be protected and the same rapid procedure provided for the centre as the child when primarily seeking protection from the court. So all those procedural provisions should also apply to the centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93512	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The three newspapers produce these legal novels: the possibility of contesting motherhood, eliminating the upper age limit for adoption and dealing differently with the issue of child restraint. A common feature for all three of these newspapers, that issues have been opened long ago and that solutions have been offered long ago, that all of these have been refused by the Government in these three and a half years and that it now offers all of this as its own solution. It's good when someone adopts someone else's smart thinking. It is bad, however, when it takes him three and a half years, and to accept this was enough for three and a half days and maybe three and a half minutes for a reasonable man. The possibility of challenging motherhood, it was already introduced into this family law when the mother's definition was changed, but then it was thrown out, and now it's back again. Of course, again not consistent with what counterpart Anticevic warned, of course it was necessary to change the family law and the definition of mother because when we introduce the possibility of challenging motherhood we must introduce because science is progressing, of course only in artificial fertilisation, of course only in donated egg cells, of course perhaps in the abuse of these egg cells. But since we're introducing a possibility, we need to introduce a mother's challenge, then we need to change that definition of mother as the woman who gave birth to a child. Elimination of the age-old adoption limit is also proposed, here's the HSS proposal and then the government rejected it, now offers it as its proposal. It's good, it's good to adopt smart proposals to the opposition though when... Figure it out then and suggest it. [[You don't understand.]] This may, however, help a little with the number of adopted children. We still have a devastating situation, however, that there are five times as many adoptors as there are adoptions, children per home. We may be able to fix this situation a little bit, but it's not just a matter of age. The problem is what my colleague Opacic was saying. Parents, biological parents send their children to their home, yet they retain their rights, custody rights, and thus hinder their adoption. I don't know if it's possible to claim that every biological mother is even worse than a stepmom, the adoptive mother, even if she's the best, but surely the family is a better place for a child than it is a home, than it is an institution. In the interests of the child, too, laws and practices should be changed, more determined to take care of parents when they send their children to their homes and when they are inadequately cared for or not cared for, they do not question, and they still take advantage of the possibility of maintaining their parental custody rights. Only in this way will we be able to meet a large number of adoption requirements and only in this way will we move these children from home to family, and there they are much better, much better there. So if we want to act in the interests of these children, we need to act more decisively, we need to act faster, not wait three and a half years, and then we need to give another solution that's a little bit of a fix, but it won't solve it all the way, and we need to end up doing that, we need to figure out where the problem is. Where's the problem, because if we don't know where the problem is, how do we solve it? This novel, it obviously does not affect the very essence of things, does not see where the difficulty in adopting it is, faster and better quality. Now the third to which the most attention is paid, the child support. That law regulates, that's where we have two situations. When the law forces parents to take care of their child and finally start paying for that obligation, alimony and when it fails to provide for state intervention under Article 55. This to a little bit introduce stricter conditions and speed up the work of courts and so at forced collection, executive fees by parents that's good. That's good. There's nothing to complain about. But Article 55 should in fact replace what was the proposal of the Alimentary Fund Act from the beginning of the term of office of this Government when the SDP put it in the process. So one whole legal proposal on the alimony fund here is replaced by one article and it's bad. Here's the vice president of the government why it's bad. So it's an article that says what happens if a parent doesn't meet his obligation for more than six months, so for more than six months he doesn't pay child support. First of all, why longer than six months. Why longer than six months? What is it with this law that we protect? We must always bear in mind the child's interest, that's the first. Which should now take that child six months to get this child out of his pay so that he can even initiate a procedure in which the alimony would be paid by the state instead of the parents. And what happens now in practice or can happen? He won't pay for five months, then he'll pay for one month, and he won't pay for five months again, so one month he'll pay for that single mother, that child, I'm talking about the right child, it's the right child, he'll never be able to get on this line of state care. And a child has to be held back. That must be the intensity of this law. What does a child care about is what sort of legal solutions are, like this or something, he needs to be supported. If you can't force your parents to support him, then that care must be taken over by the state. A child must not suffer. And now what you say goes on. So these six months are completely unclear, but then they'll be taken over by the state for a total duration of three years. And what about three years later? What about three years later? I don't know, maybe the intensity of this legal article is different, but what it says here for a total duration of three years means that the state will take care of it for three years, for the longest three years, and then you don't know what's going to happen. If something else was to be said, however, that should have been said more precisely. Certainly more precisely. The right to temporary abstention shall be recognised on the date of application, or on the date of initiation of the procedure under official duty. So why not from the day the child was right, because first it takes six months to get into the system at all, and then it is right when it is, from the day the application is made. And the third thing that is completely incomprehensible. Only 50% of the amount will the state worry about, giving that temporary alimony from the amount of the alimony that the parent has to pay. Well, look, so the kid doesn't care how the state gets paid by that irresponsible parent. Maybe he won't be able to charge at all because the man doesn't work. He had one family, he had two children, he grew up, he started a new family, there are three children in the new family, and you sit down on all his incomes, and he doesn't have enough money to support five children, but we have to take care of those children as a society. Well, they're the children of this society. These countries, no matter who their biological parent is. Well, we can't condemn those children to be without restraint because that's how someone irresponsible or because he lost his job without his guilt. And what if he lost his job? It disappeared in privatization of 400,000 jobs. These people today are 50, 55 years old who were then working and then giving birth to children. Who's gonna hire them? How are they gonna pay for that? And now let them part. But why do children have to suffer for it? Now that's unclear. And why is the state stinging? Well, look, the state is always stronger than that single mother and that weak child, so let the state charge whatever it knows, so what do we care? Get him to go to jail, get him to take his property, take his ships, his cars, do whatever he wants with him, but that's one pair of sleeves. The right child is the second pair of sleeves. It must be achieved immediately and fully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93514	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivo Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93515	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is necessary to correct the incorrect quote of a respected colleague who said that actually the government had long been told what should be done, and she kept refusing, and that something that should have been done was so simple and could have been brought in three days. So it's completely incorrect. For what reason? Because something proposed was embedded in the government proposal that the government had long announced and now adopted. It was absurd to claim that something could have been brought in three days, especially on the side that it could not have brought in four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93516	Second correction, the respected representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93517	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm gonna do to make it right just in a different way. Says the government is now proposing what she has so far refused and could all adopt it in 3 days, which is absolutely not true. Here we have a proposal from the HSS which has 3 articles and in a different way solves the question of age. We have an Alimentary Fund Act that wouldn't be good if it were accepted because the responsibility of an individual is transferred to a state that is certainly not our tendency. This is exactly the law that wants to transfer responsibility for individuals. Then he said that temporary restraint should wait six months. Here's a nice article that says 32 months longer than 3 months, and that's an incorrect quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93518	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93519	Well, it seems to me that our society is still not the only, though, masculine society, so the society that in a certain way is the society of men and where these men would be, but in 99% of the cases are men, so husbands in divorced marriages, etc. who don't pay child support. There's really no reason to protect them in this way that they need 6 months not to pay child support... The state would intervene, but now, according to the child, I'm not talking about the persecution of the one who doesn't pay, according to the child to give him 50% or the alimony he should pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to remind you of the old Incas that was arranged in a special way. If my child or anyone's child committed a violation, then I was punished, not just by me, but by my neighbors, and not just by my neighbors, but by the whole community I lived in. But on the other hand, the state has also taken care of us in strict terms, and I'm not the type of punishment to say so, but I am in favour of the state taking over its part of responsibility to those children. Nor am I for it as... , as far as I know, they are not children owned by the state, but I really don't see any reason why it would not be arranged in a different way for these children to be at a moment when alimony is not being protected, but also the mothers of those children, and that one who doesn't pay is subject to all possible repressions by society, or state institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93520	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93521	My colleague Jurjevic, it doesn't matter if we're a masseuse society or if we're a patriarchate or a matriarchate, whatever. This is about the kids. You see, by not accepting the proposal of the Alimentary Fund Act 3 and a half years ago, 43,000 children did not receive that child's alimony and if the law had been accepted, they would have. I can thank this government and these MPs who defend it. Because of them, because they had not passed the Law, those children had not received their alimony for three and a half years, and if the law had been passed, they would have received them from the state. Since you didn't want to do it, explain it to those kids. You explain that to those kids if you can explain it at all because it's completely inexplicable. This is all about child protection. Not that men don't pay child support anymore, or women don't pay child support, or they don't pay child support because they're irresponsible, or they don't pay because they're responsible, but in the privatisation of HDZ, they lose their jobs, I don't care why they don't pay them. It's the right of a child to get that money and to be held back. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93522	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't think I'd have to go out for the pay phone again and answer on behalf of the government, but I was forced because Mr. Stazic, Agent Stazic, actually comes out of the context of the debate so far, not trying to politicise this debate anyway, so I am obliged to answer on behalf of the Government. When you say "explain the children," you're talking to the government. Why wasn't that brought three and a half years ago, explain it to the kids? Then I can also say, since the Family Law was passed in 2003, explain to children why it was not incorporated into the Family Law, why such provisions were not incorporated into the Family Law, why did you not protect children from irresponsible parents? Or why was the alimony fund not adopted or established at the time when the government run by your party had the opportunity and led the state? But I don't think that's a good way to talk about it because then I could say the same on behalf of the government, explain to the children and mothers why you cut the benefits, why you cut birth benefits, why you drove about 60 thousand mothers away when you abolished a three-year maternity leave, to get back to work for 60 days without infrastructure, kindergarten, nursery, etc.? But I don't think that's good, and that's why I'm inviting you back into the frameworks of the debate on changes and additions to family law. I will remind you, among other things, that there have been different discussions about this alimony fund and here I remember Mr. Rados, who, for example, by discussing the alimony fund, said by saying that it would be an incentive for irresponsible parenting. And I'm saying that because there were different views about it. I think my opinion and the government's opinion that these mechanisms that we are now installing in the changes and additions can, on the one hand, act preventively, on the other hand, ensure that children who are forgotten by parents ignore this restraint. And on the third hand, I think it's equally important for the state to ensure that this debt is forced by him. You mentioned three years, right? Why just three years? Because we believe that all of these additional mechanisms, meaning the welfare centre, will immediately give the State's Attorney's office to initiate proceedings against that irresponsible parent, means that the state is at peace. Therefore, we believe that in those three years the entire system will function and that the child will receive normal restraint. So, in addition to all this, it means that the entire assets are taken into account, that the courts make the first hearing, so we believe that all these mechanisms can ultimately lead to the forced irresponsible parents to carry out their obligation to their own child. And on the other hand, the state provides care for him as long as there's a need. Finally, as you have seen, the Family Law is being complemented, changing according to real life. In a few years we'll see if that deadline should be extended by three years, or the number of those who neglect their children, who lie to their children, who lie to the state, who lie to all of us, will reduce to the point that there will be no more such interventions. But I repeat once again, I've reported precisely because I think the debate so far has been about looking for the best solutions and every return to the past has led us to politicization and to looking for answers to who, why, at some point, he didn't do it, and he had a chance, he had a chance because he was leading the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93524	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93525	It is incorrect that these mechanisms adopted by this law will force parents and that the three years the law provides are sufficient to force them to behave responsibly. That shouldn't even be the purpose of this law. I thought when I read that article that was a second statement, I was just looking forward to it. I thought if he meant he didn't meet his obligations, the state would do it for him and it would work for three years for him. It's one month enough not to pay. And the state will be charged. But for three years, whether he started paying, the child would be protected from the state. And the argument between the irresponsible parent and the state, that's the second pair of sleeves. And what about what who did and when who did? Well, look, if the former government had solved all the problems then there shouldn't be any more government or parliament because the whole society would have been arranged. I mean, then, that's one observation that's very hard to understand. So not all problems could be solved in four years, because what would all other governments do until it was the Croatian State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93526	Second correction by the respected representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93527	Dear Vice President! It is incorrect that these mechanisms you have proposed in the law will allow for forced collection. In fact, nothing special in this new law is effectively foreseen, especially if a father who does not pay child support transfers all his property to another member of his new family. Thus, you will not be able to charge what that father is obliged to pay for a child he should support. Therefore, this law is unfortunately just a set of fine desires without efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93528	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go. Oh, no, this is now under discussion. No breaks. Let's move on. There's no rest while the renovation takes place.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93529	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors Minister! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements is in principle a good law which mainly nom technically solves things that the previous law did not solve well. The welfare of families and children is much better solved, but there are some articles to be selected and which I consider to be the most controversial and poorly regulated of this law. I welcome the government's abolition of the age limit in the adoption of the child. A large number of children, it is already several times here in the debate today suggested, a large number of children are located in homes and a very small number of adoptions are present, at most 10%. The number of adoptions is actually getting smaller and smaller every year. He stagnates and shrinks. The reason for such a large number of children in homes is certainly too strict a legal provision on the age limit of adopters and the conditions of adoption and the lack of clear sublaws that should have already been passed. The law has now regulated and opened up the possibility of a faster adoption, however, this good proposal should be taken into account that social care centres are certain when it comes to adoption regardless of this good proposal to abolish the upper limit that they are informationally unrelated, that there is no central eyewitness with data on adopters and children who meet the conditions for adoption. This key problem and the elimination of the upper limit is a good stimulant but without the IT binding of the social care centre, without the lack of a central eyewitness on data on adopters and children will hardly be carried out in a quality way. So, as I was saying, I agree in principle with the abolition of the age limit for the adoption of a child. This process opens up space in a number of potential adoptors. It is logical that people later marry, the age limit is shifted when women decide to give birth, or until they are recommended to give birth, and that is why it is reasonable to move or abolish the age limit for the adoption of children. However, the sensitivity of matter should also take into account those voices that oppose the abolition of the age limit. Some professors at the Faculty of Law clearly point to the problem of large differences and the gentation gap. It is questionable how many third - year - olds can take good care of smaller children. And in the end, there is always a greater possibility that older adoptors will die while the child is small. These are objections and why these provisions of the law need to be better completed by the second reading. And now only at the end of the alimony fund issue. So much has been said in these three, three and a half years about the alimony fund that we end up getting the provisions of laws that make no difference between a person and a donor to force them, to make forced payment in support of children. Unfortunately, these provisions of the law do not suggest in any way, and I'm afraid it will need to change the entire order of financial conduct in the state so that the alimony fund can finally, in order for it to function. In fact, you can't in any way make people pay black wages to pay child support. You can't transfer your property to a third member of your family, you can't make him pay child support. And this procedure through the State's Attorney's Office will sort of burden these people, but in an important way, the collection process won't speed up. And I'd like to bring up another third situation that no one has talked about today. Annually, between 3.5 to 4000 abstention rulings are made and parents with whom the child is living often do not have the money to pay the lawyer in order, for example, to file a abstention or increase of restraint, or to initiate the enforcement procedure in the event of forced collection. And that's why I'm sorry that this law has been stalled so long, or the law on free legal aid, it's just now being put on the agenda, which means by the end of the year he's not going to go into implementation, which is just another indicator of how long the government has stalled this law that would in any way help mothers who don't have the money to pay for a lawyer who would help them, for example, to collect child support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93530	I thank Mrs. Representatives. Before we go any further, let me just say that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister apologized for having to leave the session because they counted that there would be a break at half past two, but the Secretary of State who is on one of our committees will return. Next in line for the debate is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go, Dr. Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93531	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm sorry there's no secretary or secretary of state because I've just wanted to appeal to them for a group of parents of our citizens from Opatija that I've talked to on this subject and they've asked me to take their stand here and take this opportunity and pass it on to the minister. But I can only say that I will significantly shorten my exposure because my colleague Vuljanic expressed the position of the Croatian People's Party. We clearly said that we would support this law, we agree with most of what we could read in the law. He also said certain remarks. But I would go back now to what I really want to say in front of those parents from Opatija who spoke to me. They said they fully agree that a mechanism is being found to be much more effective in the fight against irresponsible parents, and most Croatian citizens will surely support such a proposal for a solution. However, there are also certain issues, issues related to our principle or non-discipline, issues that relate to our consistency or inconsistency in the adoption of laws and in detention I would say the same criteria in the adoption of these laws. We now see that in the case of irresponsible parents through court and court, we will be able to take into account the entire property or the property of the parents to essentially sell his car, sell his property and collect alimony. That's good, that's effective, and we hope that the rule of law will really do that. However, these parents, mentioned at the beginning of my presentation, told me why we were not principled in the adoption of a series of other laws. Namely, they warned me of an example that might be closest to this matter that we are talking about today. They said that dealers destroy their family, destroy their children's health and that, unfortunately, they should apply the same, unfortunately, at least the same principles, the same principles, be equally strict, be equally just. They say, we heard it now, a colleague said, "Parents don't have a lawyer when they want to charge child support." I can't file a court case. It's the same situation in the case of drugs. See who's defending the dealers? Dealers defend the best lawyers and best-paid lawyers in this country. Best law enforcement teams. They have no problem paying these teams. Look at the situation parents are in. These parents say, "Why has no one ever been deprived of property?" Dealers who do not have a single day's work experience have enormous wealth. Villas, yachts, cars. It turns out they're drug dealers. Proves they're guilty. In reports that we get over 100 young people each year, they take these people because it's either an overdose or it's about adding various toxic substances to drugs to make money bigger. So these people have never been taken away from a piece of property, let alone the entire property. To call the collection parents or to help the treatment communities or to help with treatment or to help clearly in various preventive programmes. Why aren't we equally principled? Why haven't we equally, clearly, equal principles, taken the same criteria in the case of other laws that we had on the agenda. So that was my message and request from these parents to the minister. Unfortunately, she's not here. I don't know who might pass on these thoughts to her, and I hope that this information will come to her, these requests, and that basically we here in the Parliament, but the government also holds the same principles when it comes to destroying the family and the mechanisms with which we can try to help our families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93532	I thank Dr. Doric. The next debate was registered by representative Velimir Plesa. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And Dr. Ivan Bagaric. He's gone, namely people went to board meetings, so they're scheduled for this time of the day when it's usually a break. So we exhausted the list of MPs who applied for a debate on this subject. Now, the right to the final word would be given by the Ministry as a proponent of the first law and by the Club of Representatives of the HSS as a legislator of the second law. But since they're not here, then we'll end up. They thus lose the right to their final word. We'll finish the debate on the amendment bill and the family law additions that came from the government. And the proposal for a law supplementing the family law that came from the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93533	Proposal for a law on changes and additions to family law. First reading. I give the vote the conclusion: The bill is adopted. All objections, proposals, opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 95 for, 3 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93638	Now we're going to the third point. This is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, second reading of P.Z. No. 686; This law is in the second or second reading. I call on the government's representative, this is Minister Ljubičić. If he wants to speak to the Parliament first. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93639	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ladies and sir. Here, I'll start by just saying and let me quote an old Dubrovnik. He says about this: “Who gives great things. He who gives his heart to himself." And today there are people here with us who give their heart, who give their soul. I warmly greet them here today. These are our foster parents, actually members of the foster family who came today to support these two laws and here to welcome them nicely. It's not a big round of applause, but they never need a round of applause. [[Applause.]] They are not under the lights of the reflector, but what they are doing Croatia owes them. Here is a few words to refer, of course, to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. I'm just going to brief you on the fact that we actually had a debate at the 26th session, so June 15th of this year. After that debate, I will say almost with a full consensus, with a large, large majority of votes, that law has been passed. So I'm just going to be taxing on what he's bringing. In fact, it brings the creation of a prerequisite for a better, more efficient and fairer system of social care. This is really what the social care system in Croatia wants and wants to be recognized for, which is quality, efficiency and justice. In order to achieve this and to actually allow us to have these preconditions, to have even better, then we put the simplification of the process of achieving different rights with the intention that it is possible to reduce administration and administrative approach as much as possible. What does that mean? This means that we are with the existing 17 rights that our citizens can achieve right now, and we wanted to actually shorten the process. We wanted to make it possible for our professional employees at the social care centres to work as little paper as possible and to work with people as much as possible. Because actually the taste of the entire welfare system is just working with people. Of course there are assumptions about informing the system because if you have 17 different rights then, of course, it's extremely difficult to link it informationically at the level of the entire state and that's why we entered into the unification of the rights that here, according to our proposal, would be 8. I want to make it clear that these ideas of ours have been fully accepted by the profession. When I talk about her, I talk about the Croatian Association of Social Workers. They were accepted by the Trade Unions and employers as seen by the unanimous support of the Economic and Social Council of this law. But apparently from this House, which was also seen by a practically full consensus in the vote. The second provision we have implemented in the law is that child benefits are no longer considered revenue. It is therefore exempt from the total income of the family in calculating the assistance to support the multi-member family. This is in line with the national population policy we have presented, proposed by the government and fully accepted by the Parliament. And it's really something that I think is a big step in the welfare system. We're also introducing some new elements or I'm going to say new rights. The first right that our foster parents will be very, very interested in, and that is the system of patronage. You know the worst part is when you're doing something and you're really doing it really well, but you feel like you're alone. That you do not actually have support from the relevant institutions or, for example, from the profession. With Patronage outside the institutional form of care, we want to enable our professional employees not only from the Centre for Social Care, but also from our homes, the Home for mentally ill persons, the Home for children without parental care. But also homes for old and powerless, to go out into the field and help all those forms that are outside the institution, and that means foster parents. This means, when a foster family needs the help of a logo, when it needs the help of a rehabilitator, whether it can be requested and has to be obtained by a psychologist and this is the patronage that we practically want to establish which will, of course, be linked primarily to those who have certain physical or mental impairment but also to all other user profiles. And, of course, certain conditions were to be created for this. I'm going to once again show one piece of information that has to be said today and which is actually what our public needs to hear. In 2004, unfortunately, I'm going to say, unfortunately, we've found a situation that in no home for children without proper parental care there were no psychologists, no psychologists. So, I think it's one minimum of professional work. These are children who, on the one hand, are therefore abandoned regardless of the reason we are talking about who have lost their parents, who are then located in institutions or have not found an adequate foster family or have actually not entered the adoption process. On the other hand, we actually have these abused children, a special category. And for them, we didn't actually have a psychologist in 2004. Today, I am proud to say that in Croatia, we no longer have a home for children without adequate parental care that has no psychologists. And that's why today we can talk about these psychologists going out and helping foster families, which is, of course, the subject of the second law, and I'll look back on that later. The second right that we are, here's which I actually wanted through this law in some way and legalize is financial support to students who are users of permanent accommodation in social care homes. You know we started that program in 2005. So, scholarships in some way to all students who were home users. I want to make it clear that today we want as many students as possible. We're here to start by limiting ourselves to those who enroll in colleges. And I want to make it clear today that we are going to expand our activities to foster families, but of course not for colleges because there are few, but for high school. And it will be one of our steps that we want to anticipate for the next period. Finally, there are assumptions for the establishment of professional chambers in the welfare system. As you know, by 2005, we had virtually no exception for psychologists, we didn't have an organized profession in the welfare system. Of course, it has caused a whole series of possibilities to be manipulated, that something is not doing well, that this segment of the profession does not do right, etc. And that's why we have to strengthen the profession, because a strong profession on one side is actually going to be a prerequisite for the quality of the system. Of course, on the other hand, there are those who provide services outside the institution that are not related to the profession, which are actually the best control mechanism. And just in interaction between people in the system, who are actually like foster parents and people who come out as professionals, a virtually single symbiosis is made, and therefore, of course, for the improvement of the system. And in the end, we introduced a new right that was very much talked about and behind which here and I personally stand, and I think it's really a huge step as one of the few countries that has it. It is the right to the status of foster parents which will be related to children with the most severe damage. So there's a possibility for one of the parents whether he's busy or not. If it is not, then it will exercise the right to this status and, of course, the right to full retirement. I just want to point out a few more things here that we have after the first reading and after the debate that was finally held on the Economic Social Council, but also here in the Croatian Parliament. We adopted a few, so I'll make some quality remarks. Let's say the observations of the Economic Social Council, which absolutely stands, which unfortunately fell out in the latest changes and additions in 2003, which is that the right to employment benefits can be achieved by physically or mentally damaged or mentally ill persons over the age of 15. In fact, it was not practically adopted that it was only after high school education. We now add that it can also be after primary school but also high school education. So we simply do not want to make certain differences with regard to schooling. There were also talks here about treatment communities. A club of MPs, one club of MPs insisted that therapeutic communities be defined inside. I said why not, we can define them and, in fact, for the first time in the law, we clearly define the treatment communities and, of course, create a basis, a legal basis that can practically be defined in the sublegal act precisely by the conditions that the therapeutic communities will have to achieve. What when we were actually talking about parent status is also what we saw in the meantime with a detailed reading, which is that it remains actually out of the law unsettled whether retirement is going to happen and when the age pension will be better said. So here is what we have clearly defined in the words that the status of the parent’s parents and after the child’s adulthood is thus realized. So, while such a need lasts, that is, until the day of fulfillment of the conditions for the exercise of the right to retirement. In other words, while the child needs to be cared for, the parent will have the status if, of course, he completes and fulfils the age pension requirement based on the status of the care provider goes into full retirement. And I think it's actually absolutely on track I'm going to say reasonable thinking here which are now fully implemented and in the final draft of the law. Here, I sincerely hope that you will once again support this law in full consensus, because what is inside is indeed a great gain with the welfare system. But what's most important for today, but also for future users of the social care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93640	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate was held on this proposal by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the reports from these discussions and conclusions you received on the benches. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. The first one's the club's turn. Since the sudden break has been lifted, I see the representatives of the clubs are not here. So, there was a colleague of Kajin's IDS club, a HSS club colleague Lalic and a team member of the HDZ club Caparin. They lose the right to debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. First up is a colleague of Lucia Chickesh's. Madam MPs, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93641	Thank you. Vice-President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, Mr. Minister said in his statement that there was indeed an absolute consensus in the first reading on amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. I'd say that's only one part of how long the social care with its record improved. And this is almost the age of social care turning out. Social care simply because it was led by Minister Ljubicic and the Government led to a programme of decentralisation of the social care system, they founded social care on programmes to prevent institutionalisation, they founded social care on the basis of deinstitutionalisation. And in order to implement all this in practice, it was inevitable that some changes were made and amendments to the Social Care Act were made. Of course, we have come to think and are already beginning to base how the reference centres and methodological centres throughout Croatia will take over the role of educators for all others who are not yet accepting newspapers in the field of social care. To get rid of the welfare centers, we know how many of them they've got so far, there's... The right requires its own administrative procedure in order to simply free those employees who spend so much time on administration have been reduced to this unification of all seven rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we add the eighth right to that, and that's the parent's guardian. In this way, the administration has been reduced, thus giving them more time to devote themselves to those users who need social care at a certain point to support it both more and sooner to return to society and as a valuable and equal member of the community in which they live. In addition to this, we say that all these mergers will be even more successful and will be even better implemented if we know that we have introduced a programme of informing all social care centres. Not only will they be interlinked but they will also be linked to all those institutions that will help solve a particular problem with a potential client. It will also be linked to employment centres, will also be linked to city and municipal welfare offices as well as to county welfare offices. The newspaper in this whole thing is that in the decentralisation programme of the institution, the local community is given more power. It will be the local community that will create its own social care, which will set priorities and therefore provide social care. Of course, since I am dealing with both narrow and direct my interest in work are children distracted in mental and physical development, this step towards the right to parent status is a major step. We know that the most severely damaged ones who depend on their parents for 24 hours will greatly help the child to live in a better quality way and thus help himself to a lot of parents. I'm saying, setting up a patronage means not only that a parent is a foster parent but also that he can use whatever welfare facilities in his field. So he can use all the rehabilitation programs at home, all the help, all the help in the house, and that's exactly what that patronage is, and that's exactly how professional workers come into this family to help the child so help their parent, and in some cases help the whole family when he finds himself in a crisis situation. To reduce pressure on institutions that are ultimately one of the worst solutions, which she would say is one way to stifle a man, it kills the freedom he can otherwise consume when he's out of the institution. So, all those programs and preventions of the institutionalization of the occasional stay in the institution, the day-to-day stay, the half-day stay, the weekend program and even staying in the institution together with the parents for the purpose of and education, and I say for the purpose of helping and treating the child. This programme is largely, I say all institutions as many as we have and I think that in Croatia we have 26 rehabilitation institutions now in one way I can willingly but do not have to provide it. However, they are obliged by this law to establish such programmes and all potential clients living around them to provide them with such therapy. Let's not even mention how important it is that you put under your wing and help kids students, which you gave them in such a way that we don't have to, I live in the middle where it mainly relies on donors. They now have their support and if they will study and want to finish they have a chance. It's an addition to employment. We know that children with developmental disorders find it hard to finish their primary school sometimes, so it's a little harder to finish high school, but as I would say to us a little more fortunate that they don't have and difficulty finding a job, it's even harder for them to get a job, and when they have to make up for it until they find a job that makes it much easier for them, it gives them one trust, one self-esteem, one self-respect, and in one way, they relieve their parents. I couldn't say anything but surely support this whole thing, and I know that when we establish these county pilots who need to be set up for new social care programmes, we're going to get to the new Social Care Act soon, which is likely to have bigger and stronger shifts in favour of all the clients who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93642	Thank you, ma'am. I just remind you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply... and amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next in line for the debate, Madam Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I have to say that in this system, because these are the facts, that in this system, indeed, a lot has been done in the last few years. And I'm saying that and therefore all those who are addressed to this very important and sensitive system see that they are cared for and cared for continuously. So I would just mention the social care reform and this 47m-euro loan where the government's participation is 14m euros. So, significant money for reforming social care, which has made some important shifts that seem to be in the future, that the building of 13 new facilities, the adaptation of 13 existing ones, and the improvement of the conditions of 57 homes. Then it is important to mention what the minister himself said about the lack of personnel in this system. That from 2004 to 2007, 446 new workers were employed, that trainees were admitted, 150 of them. Then car 135 and a lot more. What I would like to say is that here, according to the World Bank report in Croatia, about 4% of the gross social product for the settlement of various social benefits is set aside, and good aim as it is pointed out how much I have read would only take about 0.7% and one and a half billion kuna respectively. And that we stand out more by it, both from Austria, Italy, Germany, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary. And because of the fact that there have been signs of some weaknesses in the system, although our employees, I can say it responsibly because I have been working with them for a really long number of years, doing their job responsibly and consciously, some weaknesses have proved to mean that we've had too much administration, that we haven't had enough focus on certain vulnerable groups, that users are, and that's true, everyday people are talking to these claims, that they've become help users and that they're actually relying on help, often refuse work or are not interested in work. So we've developed one addiction to aid. That they don't return anything to the community at the expense of what they get. And that local authorities have so far had no impact on how much they share and who they share. The intensity means this reform and this law to change all this and to create a system that is effective, that is rational and that is available to those who really need it, and to prevent compensation from being paid to those who do not need it. Here today, when we talked about this, we saw changes to the Family Law that we were taking into account the entire assets there, and I think that social assistance should also take into account the entire assets of potential users. But what I certainly find very important in this law, and I'm going to repeat it even though it's been pointed out so far, it's because it's a really significant shift, it's a parent nurse. So far we have had up to seven years three thousand and 506 users and with half the hours of two thousand and 673 users of such fees. So all of them can, if they meet these criteria in Article 77a, be able to receive compensation as a parent nurse. I think it will be really important to help these families and that this, as the minister pointed out, is really important that they will be able to achieve meanings, not only as a boredom that this applies to children, but that they will be able to all and adulthood for as long as such a need lasts, until they meet the conditions for retirement. I think it's really an important move and help for people, families who need such help. Here we are, seeing from the first to the second reading that here in Article 59a a really the same thing was done, I was just talking to our social care workers, and they said it was a really important shift, because so far those who had finished primary school had no compensation, and those who finished high school. So now we've expanded this right for elementary school, and yet it's the most important thing for high school education. And that's where I find it really important to move. We see that the important shift is certainly security one, receiving fees now and for students. And how I understood the minister would be extended to high school. Here's the fact, and we know how many times there's been a collection of various humanitarian actions to build homes and make it easier for these kids to continue their education. So it's a very important shift. What is certainly important and makes it easier for the family to cope with their daily difficulties, that is certainly this patronage. But I would mention here and consulting and helping in Article 77i where it says that in all these difficult situations whether it is a single person or a family, coping with difficulties whether they are related to sickness, age, death of family members, problems of child rearing, disability, involvement in everyday life, means all such situations are difficult and often difficult for individuals or families to cope with will now have one professional help. It's also important to have these one-time help when needed, we see that these are the broad rights and possibilities, that you will have, that you do... the birth of a child, the schooling of a child, the illness, the death of a family member, the elemental accident, the purchase of basic items for the household and such clothes, shoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that in all such needs, such a procedure is simplified and that it will be easier to exercise its rights. And here, in the end, I would just say that I support this law and I think it will contribute to the further effectiveness of the welfare system with all these measures that I have stated so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93644	Thank you, ma'am. Next up is Mrs. Bisserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93645	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I want to set up a few dilemmas on which, unfortunately, I do not find unambiguous answers in this text. First of all, I would refer to the parts of the reasoning of the bill that have been adopted in relation to the first reading. It is only two observations that are intruding into the essence but which do not significantly improve the legal proposal itself. The other comments accepted relate exclusively to the nomotechnical editing of the text of the law. It is also mentioned that, in part, the acceptance of the Ombudsman’s observations for children, but by reading the provision of Article 121c, I did not come across anything that would have anything to do with the text of the reasoning, and even the number of articles in this text has not been specified exactly, so I have no idea what is being said here. Among the proposals that have not been accepted is incorrectly that a whole series of remarks are not only not accepted, but are not mentioned, let alone explained. For example, speaking of the basis for determining the social benefits of 400 kuna and not changing for 6 years, I think that the provision establishing it in a certain percentage of the monthly salary or the amount of life costs in the Republic of Croatia would be far better than the current provision setting the height of that base by the minister. Indeed, it is unclear why the motion for a similar observation by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities did not respect it or even explain why he did not respect it. It is also said that the observations of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have not been accepted because the proposal to bring legal terminology into line with the so-called ". The Sheraton Declaration requires extensive intervention in the legal text which would make it very difficult to apply it, and that is as a final explanation why the comments of the Committee on Human Rights are not accepted. However, no other very concrete comments of the Committee have been accepted without any reason, although there are very high-quality proposals among them, such as the level of the basis, the alimony in Article 20 of the provision on the role of the social care centre, the real estate of users and the complexity of legal form, which is why many people who have the conditions for the application of rights and social assistance do not use these rights even though they are on the verge of existence in fear of losing their property. Respecting the applicant's argument that the price of permanent accommodation of users in an institution is much higher than the cost of family compensation for parents can still be increased because it would still be much less than that of the user being placed in an institution. This increase would allow many parents to carry a child to therapy and so on, and so on, if their incomes are small, so they are forced to leave the child in the institution simply because they cannot, they have no means for such transport and in this way the state greatly increases the costs, so I don't think this argument is holding water either. As regards the consequences resulting from these amendments to the Law, it is unclear how, for example, the reduction of the number of rights by unifying them or by better targeting the right more precisely by defining the conditions, will significantly improve the current Law, i.e. by improving these amendments specifically in favour of users and their families. It is also said under the last point, under point 7 that raising the quality of professional work is achieved by raising the quality of professional work by providing the possibility of establishing professional chambers, professional workers in the activity of social care. I don't understand how users will feel about it. The question is how and when and how the chamber will be established at all, when and whether to pass a law on their structure, jurisdiction and mode of work, and then at this point it is illusory to talk about a concrete improvement, given that it will be when and if there is a question of whether it will really be an improvement. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93646	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Perman. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93647	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Perman, you've well noticed that in an explanation of why some of the proposals were accepted, and some of them didn't make an effort... almost no proposal came from the opposition ranks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are more or less discussions with the working bodies, and obviously in this House, it doesn't matter what was proposed or what was being warned, but who was doing it. Thus, the minister forgot to answer and explain why he was not manifested in remarks and suggestions that repairing the structure and system of social care is the last moment to be made because the amount of inequality, especially in financing, due to the lack of equal rules for everything, is neither. It was also warned that there was a big problem with people in the center of the field when users of rights had to stock up, or their property, and that after their death persons who had no obligation to support these people and to seek property, because the state regularly lost that property and was proposed that this Law and that part be resolved, is not in another reading, there is no speech on why. Maybe we weren't clear enough. He says there'll be less administration. Only the implementation of this translation of several rights in one support to support with constant assistance will require several tens of thousands of new solutions, administrative procedures. Long live bureaucracy, administration throughout the summer at welfare centers. And of course, the minister will never, in the bill's explanation of the law, write that the Economic Social Council has debated and supported the Law, we hear it only in the last two and three months by verbal reasoning because it is his relationship with the Economic Social Council that they do not allow to be written in the light of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93648	Thank you. Replicate response, Mrs. Bishop Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93649	Well, here's colleague Lesar, I must fully agree with your supplementation of my debate. The only thing I can still conclude from this is that actually the proposal's intention and not some real improvement in the social care system, but another cosmetic preparation of the existing law, I don't know perhaps for the purpose of a pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93650	Thank you. To argue in turn next fellow MP Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93651	Pero says that every year elections would be better for everyone, but the fact is that this legal solution does not abolish any social law. In fact, some new ones are being introduced. In my court of law, the main objection is that the government was supposed to provide more resources, not just these 23 million kunas. The government was supposed to offer by my court a whole law, not this law through changes and additions because there are so many of these remarks that this matter deserved one whole text, but regardless of all this law as Pero would say, is good if for nothing else, and then because of these 13.4 million kunas that are provided for parent status. This law is good because of these 576 thousand kunas for the right to care outside the family and this law is good if for nothing else and because of these 9 million 39,000 kunas for permanent assistance by exempting child benefits. Overall, under this law, the state budget next year will have to provide 23 million kuna. 23 million kuna if we divide it by 7,3, 7,4 as much as the euro is today, it's somewhere around 3 million euros today. It's not much, but the people who get a raise will certainly be happy. Personally, I think a larger amount should be provided. It's actually about those categories of people who need help in this country and most needed. Clearly in Croatia we have about 270 thousand unemployed, in this country we have 600 and I don't know what, 20 or 30 thousand pensioners who receive pensions below 2 thousand kuna. In that category of 600 thousand pensioners there are 370 or 360 thousand so-called. new pensioners and they were I would say along with these categories that tang this law, actually the primary national problem or interest better said. If we're on the other side of the social state, if we're a fair country, if we're sensitive to unhappy, then that money shouldn't be a problem in my court, and 23 million kuna really isn't some representative amount. We all know some people who have such an unhappy or I don't know what to call them kids, and for those of us who don't have that problem, it's just terrible. These people live with that rice of theirs, with their own destiny, and in that way they need to be admired. Maybe there's only one accident bigger than this, that your child gives up on that drug and that in his 20th year of this dose of death. And that's why I'm asking for that war to just be waged by the drug mob. Some successes were recorded last week, that's good, but now we see how these 23 million kunas are shared. On page 32, it really needs to be quoted. Parents who are in a working relationship and receive a leave fee of up to 7 years of child's life of 2 thousand kuna per month, namely if the user is located in an institution, there it is allowed to achieve several types of services, such as physical therapy, working therapy, etc. which is one of the significant factors affecting the price of accommodation. It is further stated that, on the other hand, a parent who would exercise the right to parent status was a service which provides a user for accommodation in an establishment based on the Social Care Act can be granted as a special right, so the amount of EUR 2,855.00 provided for in the right to the parent status is not the only provision that the family and the user achieves. For example, this gives the family the monthly right to a personal disability amounting to another thousand kuna so that the 2.800,00 and so many kunas climb to 3.800,00 kuna. What is particularly urgent or necessary in my court is to regulate the construction of social care homes that provide these services of housing, living room, nutrition, health care, education, etc. etc. In Croatia, we have 69 such homes, and a total of 10,000 115 users are located in such homes. In addition, we have 84 homes of other founders as a rule of clear natural persons who provide 3 thousand 689 users. In my court, these homes are exactly the primary or primary problem, and because such homes are simply too small. As on the other hand, we'll all agree, too few retirement homes. Sometimes such homes are dared to say, perhaps even a higher priority than whether a fee will be 50 or 100 kuna, or whether the pension will be 50 or 100 kuna larger, or less, making it clear that the old/new pensioners have nothing to discuss, must equalize. One word we're all going to get old one day, and now it's just a question of whether everyone's going to have a decent standard. And that should be one of the primary I don't know, social, social, and I don't know what kind of politics or better said goals, that a man for honest work has an honest salary and that he receives the next day at an old honest pension or pension, all one thing. That an individual with developmental disturbances also or those severe damages to his body today, has the right to care, that is, if that care is taken by a parent, because it is true that God simply gave him such a cross, achieves the status of a carer. On page 21, it is literally said here that according to the Law on the Work of Parents with Severe Disruption in Development, the right to leave until the seventh year of the child's life or the right to work with half the full-time, and the resources are secured on the burden of the ministry responsible for social care. Currently, 3 thousand 506 are such persons in the Republic of Croatia. There are a number of parents who care for children with the most severe damage, which is why it is necessary that they continue to be with their child day and night after seven years, according to the current rules of working relationship, the parent is allowed to work with half the full time after leave until the seventh year, but this is not enough for full-time care, etc. and this law now introduces this possibility of parents exercising their right to parent status. The right to parenting status based on which compensation is made may be effected by one of the parents in cases where, according to the doctor’s recommendation, it is clearly educated to perform medical-technical procedures due to the need to provide specific care to its child, or if the child has such damage that it is fully immovable and with the help of orthopaedic aids or child, there are several types of serious damages, etc. etc. I personally believe that this is a correct approach, a good approach, and therefore this law is precisely doing this provision, perhaps more than doing these 23 million kunas should be supported. I repeat, in this country thousands and thousands of people are looking for accommodation in homes of various types up to those pensioners and this should be one of the budgetary priorities to provide funds for their construction. I know, the child's obligation to the powerless parents is as much as the parents about their children, but because of the growing fluctuation of labour from Slavonia to Istria or Zagreb, from Dalmatia to Zagreb or from Like in Rijeka, this problem will become more urgent. It is also good to introduce a new content of the right to help and care in the house so-called. Patronage as one of the extra-institutional forms of assistance, which is clearly provided by these professional workers in these homes of social care, which is something more to say on page 22. This service says that a person who is physically or mentally damaged is physically ill, the mentally ill adult includes providing it and doing so. To end once again 23 million kuna is not much, yet something. The law needs to be cleaned up. This is not a problem, and it is necessary to access the construction of these institutions in which these persons would be placed. One word of law, I think it's correct and should be supported as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93652	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues. Replica, dear colleague Pero Kovačević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93653	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, it is precisely for the reasons that you have mentioned, and we normally at the Croatian Party Club of Rights will support the proposal of this law and finally that the Government has expressed that social sensitivity to these problems, which unfortunately are not small and we know what the situation was like. It is a shame to say that we have failed to resolve this earlier, but it is obvious that when parents join together on the one hand and when the media on the other hand start campaigning, a campaign of praise is worth achieving that desired result which is certainly commendable at this point. That is certainly what the "24 hours" and other media have been involved in. And so this is one of the forms where people who have certain problems, who are unhappy with certain legal solutions can also force the Government and the Croatian Parliament to do exactly what the role and government of the Republic of Croatia is and also the Croatian Parliament itself, because it is ultimately visible that it is not some large amount of money. That's 23 million kuna. But with $3.23 million which is not a large amount for, compared to the state budget that is over 108 billion kuna. It's a completely different situation and it could have been done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93654	Thank you, dear colleague. The final word of the applicant's representative. The word is Minister Ljubicic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I have to admit I listened very carefully to this debate. I just want to, of course, answer, first of all to thank you for the praises I've heard because I really think this law deserves a lot of praise that actually comes from all sides. But let me just be clear so that you don't keep things vague, answer a few things actually. At first, it was said that we didn't bring in any support from the Economic and Social Council. So if the instructions were actually from which we all got support, believe me, it would be a lot of pages. But perhaps in support of why does this government constantly highlight the Economic and Social Council? Well, I'll say it because we have a dialogue. And what does our dialogue show? Well, we don't have doctors who strike for a few years, who have a job obligation. We don't have a welfare system where we run away from associations, we run away from the profession. No, we actually want to have a dialogue with both trade unions and employers, and we clearly and clearly show it. I'd also say actually for certain suggestions. Suggestions don't have party omens. They can be good or bad, and here they've been good and bad. They're good in there, they're bad in there. And I finally have to answer, so more, says what's being achieved by uniting social benefits? Well, a man should go to the Social Services Center. I can feel free to say that there are few centers, few homes of social care where I haven't personally been. I didn't send some of my emissaries to see it. No, I'm going alone. And I know what it looks like. I know how many cabbages of individual items where a social worker is just to get one right into another right to spend up to a week. He could have used those weeks to work with an individual or a group. He could've used it for contacts, social contacts on the ground. Because the system is called social care. Well, it's not just a concern, it's a social one, and that means contact with people. And just to strengthen that contact to actually get a center employee out of the field, doing what they want, we need to make it possible for him, which means more humanity and less paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93656	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda at the usual time or when the conditions are met, according to counterpart Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93657	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93658	All three amendments shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93659	All three are accepted. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, one abstention and two against a bill passed along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93660	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Household Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 687. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the bill? Yeah. The word is from Mr. Minister of Health and Social Care Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93661	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be really very brief because there's been a lot of talk about this, a lot of writing about what's actually here, what's culinary. So here and now I'm going to say that this law also received unanimous support from the Economic and Social Council, support from the Croatian Association of Social Workers, support from a whole series of entities, but here's how much I actually hear and support from our foster parents who are here with us today. In fact, I spoke several times about foster care in Croatia indeed has not a great but a huge tradition. And we have really examined whether in Europe we are the only ones with Austrians who are 106 years old. Croatia is 105 years old. So we are others in Europe, and we can really boast very, very much. But there were no foster care laws. So a man asks himself why? Is it because we may have run away from some obligation, or because we may not have known how to handle it in the best possible way? Let's let go of why, I say here we'll have the Household Act because it's really this 105-year tradition, and what's done under that system is more than they deserve. Today is the fact that the number of users in the last few years has been stagnating and, of course, the first question we ask, which I'm going to say, I'm going to ask myself, and that's why is that? Why didn't we take at least one step to make the number of foster families grow, that the number of foster parents, people who really know, who want to, and as I did today when I came here and told them who have a big heart and a big soul. Of course, we have to create some preconditions, so we're just creating them with this law. First of all, I want to make it clear that we've had a lot of discussion about the criteria for the foster parent criteria. That's where we wanted to go, and I really think we did a good job of sharing foster care for adults and foster care for children. It's still two different segments. Of course, by respecting, first of all, those who do, who have the most experience. Here, in the final proposal, we propose certain changes. What changes? That the number of users in foster families for adults increases to number four. For children still, and the largest number of associations has actually given us that support to remain on number three. We have moved the age limit to 60 years, and at the same time we have created a system to make sure that there must be a predisposition that whoever deals with foster care that at least one of the members must have medium professional training and that provision is practically abolished. I'll tell you why. Our wish, my wish is that we really have as many people as possible who will be educated. But by respecting the structure that we have in Croatia right now, by respecting the percentages that are there, which are on our ground absolutely cannot go with such a decision. I am aware therefore, and that is why we are changing this decision, and once again this is all the result of the conversation with a number of foster organizations, that is, the foster parents themselves. Also, we have precisely defined the composition of the foster care team not including those doing it. The composition of the foster care team is just a team that's located as a taste at the center, but he can't work alone. He has to be tied to the foster parents. He has to. Why? Well, it's those people who do quality work in a system, who carry out certain activities, and in this case fostering, that they have to carry on what is done in quality. Say right, which way and exactly that experience has no alternative. And there's what I'm talking about, and that's a joint profession on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's actually fosterers that work practically on the ground. Unfortunately, we haven't had that yet. We didn't have because we were actually constantly trying to separate these two segments that simply per their habitat must be together. I would also like to make it clear that the permission to carry out foster care is given within three years, and may be renewed at the end of that period for the next three years. It is another regulation that we have to confess with the debate that was held on the Economic Social Council, but which was also carried out here in the Croatian Parliament. What I would certainly like to mention and what I think should be said, which is in some way one of the light motives of this law at all. Many object, honor, and say: “Rewards for foster parents are small.” I agree that they could be wherever and where greater. No one happier than me that I can be twice, triple and five times as big. But the moment we have what we have, and this is a shift, because let's not forget so far, there's nothing. So between nothing and this we have a big difference, and I'm going to say something else this government has had enough power to solve, so the great trauma of this society, the debt of the pensioners, today you're going to hear new news about it, just like today and beyond this is going to be debated about asbestos. And we solved that problem. We will also solve this problem, and this means increasing social benefits, and this will result in automation and compensation from our foster parents. Therefore, not only should we look at it through absolute values. It is necessary to look through the taste of the law and what it really means and where the system is going. Because looking in front of your nose means not seeing the old ones that may be three and five meters away. So, see the practical vision and the future. And in the end, I would just like to point out that the existing foster parents, the foster parents who are working and are working very well right now. The status of these foster parents remains unchanged as a whole. That means they're foster parents. They have their foster families regardless of the number of users, regardless of their age structure and as such, as found they will be further in the system in the same status as they have now. And I want to make that clear because there have been some speculation about that actually that system is going to have to change. No, they're still staying. So, the found state doesn't change. Therefore, they continue to function as they have functioned so far. And finally allow me here in about a few weeks, I will not say two or three, for the first time in Croatia the Government will adopt a document called Model de institutionalization and inclusion in Croatia. What does that really mean? Croatia of course has its own tradition, we have its cultural heritage which we are very proud of. We have our own level of economic potential and so we have our tradition here's the foster home for 105 years. In this context, we have the right and we have our own system as well as visions of the development of foster care and inclusion as a system, and not that some on the side are actually bringing us models that can definitely not be implemented, let alone actually be discussed, because they simply do not belong to our cultural, traditional and economic miles. And finally, as here are our foster parents today, let me take advantage of this and say that here I signed again yesterday that a thousand and 500 children from our foster families as well as last year and this year go on an organized holiday all together, because indeed they and the foster parents earned it very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93662	I'm asking the guests to behave properly so I don't have to take measures of their distance. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. It's the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, respected colleague Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a new law, a law that deals with this topic systematically for the first time in Croatian legislation. In the past, this household was regulated by a few articles of the Social Care Act, and it proved to be not good, that the subject should be made into a legal proposal, which has been made. In the first reading of the law, there were many objections, some also mentioned Mr. Minister. The remarks are well respected. I'm primarily referring to the observation about the necessary qualifications to do foster work that was completely outside of the category, of course we all want our population to be as well educated as possible, we want 30% high education and 50%, and we don't want it right now. Currently in Croatia we have a million and 400 thousand, 500 thousand people with primary school or qualifications less than that. Perfectly certain that there are a very large number of parents who raise their children and have absolutely no reason for you and such people not to be able to raise children in foster families or care for other householders. They do it, they can do it, they're qualified for it. And finally no one in the world has established any special qualification for parents and care for an older person. We all do it with a school, or without it, so there's no reason to make it like a legal obligation. This law should actually be linked to the Family Law we talked about today in the morning. It is a similar issue, namely the subject of caring for the population in which care is needed, whether it is children or older, or infirm, disabled. In Family Law, we have sharpened the criteria of parent care that do not take care of their children, sharpening the legal criteria for forcing them to do so. Here is a system that would primarily care for children who do not have a normal family environment or family care, the system is established which should, in a certain way, guarantee that care through legal provisions. There are two kinds of things to say, fostering. One is fostering children, thus providing a family environment where every child in the world has the right, love and understanding, psychological backgrounds that a person can develop into a healthy member of society, and the other is concerned about older people and people with special needs. In the first draft of the law, this was not demarcated, nor has it been extended until the end, but some improvements in the text of the law have been made specifically as regards the number of possible fosterers. It is a frightening fact in Croatia that only one third of these children who have no family for these and those reasons, located in foster families, are privileged to grow up in the environment of mother, father, or one parent, brothers, sisters, so in the family environment. Two-thirds of children are still in institutions. Why is that bad? I don't think anyone should be explained. It is impossible to achieve an effect of education in a family environment, regardless of qualifications, on conditions in homes, on all living things, and also in a family environment with a much lower standard and in a family environment with parents or foster parents who are not educated. All of this is certainly a better result than institutional child accommodation, and there is a financial effect of the whole thing. The child in the home state spends, the state pays, at least 8 thousand kuna according to the data we received in the context of the first text of the law. Eight thousand kuna is a lot of money, after all, a month. Of course, it is necessary to pay for the entire cold drive from infrastructure to qualified people and it costs it. That concern in the family costs less. On behalf of the HNS Club, I can freely say that we are convinced that what the state is now giving, and that is the number that, or the amount that hasn't changed in the last four or five years, doesn't seem enough to me. It's 1.460,00 kuna, I think, or something like that if I'm not mistaken, mostly somewhere under 1.500,00 kuna. Of course, this figure is not enough for one complete child care, especially a child who has come from a broken family or a child who has experienced various shocks and tragedies in his family. That's five times, six times less than what the state singles out for a child in a home. Even if that figure doubled and tripled, I'm talking about the number that belongs to the host, the child in this case, it would still be much, much, much cheaper for the state, and I think that's exactly what the ministry needs to do a lot more. Plus what Mr. Minister mentioned about the foster care offered at the level of about 700 kunas currently per foster home. She's, of course, offensive, if she counts as a payday. She's not paying for nothing. It is possibly a reward for effort that cannot be viewed in any way as paying the service because it is not paying the service, nor is it money for paying the service. It's a little strange that when the budget was voted and the budget rebalanced, Mr. Minister said the ministry was getting enough money just now, for its own purposes. He said earlier that there was no money for a bigger fee, and it should be 2.3, and I don't know how many times Mr. Minister has said it, so I disagree with those two statements, it doesn't agree with each other. However, the fact is that for the first time these fees have been introduced, and the fact is that it is good that they are introduced and that in any case it should be supported and should be pursued in the next rebalancing if it will be this year, that is, in the next budget to make that figure more appropriate to the needs. What seems to me to be out of the law are measures to encourage fostering in the future. Namely, the number of foster parents is limited for children to 3, for adults to 4. I don't see exactly the reason for those numbers, I'm guessing there's some professional background behind those numbers. I don't think those numbers are real to me personally, but I think the opposite might be more real, but here we go. So the number of children in foster families decreases, possible number of children decreases. We've established that only one third of the population is being fostered, a child population that doesn't have a family is being fostered. Our goal is to increase it, to reduce the number, which would mean that the number of foster families should be increased. It's how different it is to get to a bigger number. How to increase it in this law you can't see. One step may be this foster care, but it seems to me that it is not enough if anyone counts that because of the financial benefit, the number of families who host someone will not increase. No, think of how much financial use there is to make something like that. It can only be done by a man who really wants to help others and who has feelings for such a job, for 700 kuna per month absolutely no one will do it. And a few more remarks about the specific articles in the law. Article 5 established the limit of the number of children to 3, so far it was 5. I'm not quite sure which reason is behind that restriction, maybe we could even accept the cuts, we don't see them here. Finally, he has families with five children, and we praise our own families. Why couldn't there be five foster children, I don't know exactly. Article 6 sets out the number of adults. He's limited to 4 which seems real, maybe even exaggerated. Article 17 well describes the specific obligations of foster parents to children. These are obligations that actually describe a good parent. A parent who does his job, does his duty properly, how does God command, and it is good that such obligations stand in the law as foster obligations, for foster parents to these children are and are parents, what else would they be? I find it a little unclear what this really means in Article 24 that the care rights, i.e. supplies, are determined by the ministry’s decision of the minister. Well, as the minister estimates it will be. It seems to me that this should, in a similar way, be linked to some size in Croatia, whether it's with the average salary, whether it's with the basis for social care, something else, but it should connect with something and it should be a matter of automation that we simply don't get what's going on in the last few years so that this number doesn't change because it's a ministry somewhere on the edge of priorities, so now that the money for medicines is being raised, the money for hospitals is being raised, so the money for this is expensive. If there's anything left, we'll increase it. I think the state budget should commit itself to following some size in Croatia. I'd just like to comment on Article 35. Mr. Minister has found that today's foster parents who are operating under regulations that have been in place so far will continue to function. That's true. This concerns foster parents who have more children than is provided for in this Act. However, in Article 35, the transitional and final provisions do not mention foster parents who exceed the limits set out in this Act. I've given the amendment to this, so I'd really like that amendment to be accepted, so that the current situation is guaranteed, that there are no accidents that the law shouldn't be made. Namely, if the foster parent is older, if the difference between foster parents and foster parents is greater than 50 years, and so far, such cases have not been established. Thus, such a foster parent cannot receive a child at home. We have a situation where children live in such families. Let's not make an accident on these kids over a cheap and simple pen move. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this law, especially if this amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93664	Thank you very much. Corrections to an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93665	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegations that the colleague stated, that the fee was offensive. I think it is primarily offensive to these foster parents who are worse and who listen to such words, because it is indeed voluntary and humanitarian work, and the fee is as dictated by the current financial situation in the Republic of Croatia. You must know that there is also a supply plus a fee that has unfortunately not yet been made. She's what she is, but she's still on her way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93666	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Buchanan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the same incorrect quote I'm starting to quote: if the fee counts as a salary, then it's small, offensive. And she just can't be counted as a salary, because she's not defined anywhere like that. However, Article 25(4) states that personal compensation is not considered to be paid to the fosterer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93668	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by his colleague Bagarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93669	Well, I think it takes this quote and a third time to correct it, so it doesn't happen again. Therefore, it is really offensive to conclude this as you have concluded that the compensation that has not been introduced so far so far is, in fact, offensive. How offensive she is is best said here by the housewives, shortly after our minister's appearance. So that's an incorrect quote and we reject it. After all, it is up to you to show respect to both the Minister and the Government for finding funds for such compensation. And we hope it gets bigger because you deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93670	Thank you. It is next to the Croatian Peasant Party club, a respected colleague, Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93671	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We in Croatia have supported new guidelines in social care and we are in favour of deinstitutionalisation aimed at achieving a change in the relationship between institutions and outside the institutional forms of care in favour of outside the institutional forms. For the sake of clarity, homes are an institutional form, and foster care is outside the institutional form. Thus, in our first reading, we pointed out the need for the adoption of the Household Law. The fact is that in Croatia almost 20,000 people are located in homes of social care and in a foster family. We think that the number of people who would be entitled to care outside their own family is much higher than we have statistical data for that. In accordance with the new guidelines we have supported, there is indeed a need to improve and popularise foster care as a more natural environment for users of the right to care outside their own family. The new guidelines exist for a long time but did not change the ratio of accommodation in homes compared to foster care, so that there are 13 thousand 804 in homes and only 5 thousand 877 in households. Comparatively, compared to 2005 foster care has only increased five users. However, when you look at the age structure of the users of services, then you will see that since 2003 the number of children and youth in foster care has dropped from 2 thousand 484 users in 2003 to 2 thousand 195 users in 2006. In adults and older people, the situation is different. There is an increase from 3 000 066 users in 2003 to 3 thousand 682 users in 2006. This increase is certainly not significant because it is an increase of only 615 users in four years. So deinstitutionalisation does not go at the necessary pace and pace. And so the Proposer rightly finds it necessary to popularise the foster care that we really have a long tradition. But with regard to foster care, it is wrong to think only about children. The users of foster care are older people, but also mentally ill people. Each of these categories of users has its specificities and all of them are legislators and the legislation should be respected. Household care is a substitute family care for a person whose beneficial development cannot be achieved in his own family, it is more favourable for a child, than foster care is quality and what is more favourable to a child than fostering is a quality adoption. And therefore, this time too, the appeal to finally be made to speed up the process and create conditions for adoption. For them is the worst form of care in homes but still the majority of children without adequate family care are located right in homes. And as we have seen their number decline in the foster home. The second category is older people. Our nation is getting old and there's a growing number of those who need care. The majority of such individuals find it difficult to accept separation from family and housing in their homes. They prefer foster care where they find a replacement family. And the third category is mentally ill. Of course, there are different categories of them, from those who are the only possible hospital accommodation for this type of patient, to those whose accommodation in such institutions is harmful and far more beneficial for their development of more beneficial foster care. But the foster home doesn't have enough. And now we're wondering why since we have a long foster tradition? We agree with the promoter who says that in Croatia fostering potentials are very high, but the fact is that we do not have enough foster parents to deinstitutionalise the concerns that are mentioned earlier. We feel that the basic motive in fostering humanity is to help a person in need out of love. Very often wishes are in the way of possibilities. Householding someone means providing space, adapting living conditions to the requirements of the state's rules. Hosting means taking care of feeding, clothing, schooling until treatment. Of course the state has secured the so-called. supply for each user. Hosts say the amount of supplies has not changed for years and has long become insufficient to cover the cost of household care users. How many foster families are able to cover costs from their own income? It seems very small or not because it is mostly about foster parents over 50 years of age. We believe that this is exactly where one of the fundamental reasons behind the insufficient expansion of foster care is as a desirable institute. From existing foster parents, we have heard thoughts about giving up because they can no longer endure financially. Now there's a big announcement that there's a fee being introduced to a foster parent he's never had before. And the promoter says, quote: "Its introduction is important for improving the status of foster parents.". Well, let's see what that looks like. Article 27 of the Law lays down the amount of personal compensation to a foster parent who takes care of children and young adults and amounts to 400 kuna for a single child up to 960 kuna for three children located. A foster parent who takes care of children and minors and is also their legal dependant has the right to compensation from 320 kuna for one child to 720 kuna for three children. A foster parent has the right to a fee of 320 kuna if he has one user up to 880 kuna if he has four users. Such amounts cannot have a significant impact on the improvement of foster status, not necessarily. It's only enough to be told so what do you want for foster care you're paid for. Therefore, the government remains with its proposal that the foster care of an adult pay 40 lip per hour. We find that this is a shamefully low amount and for the fosterer offensive regardless of all reactions in the previous debate. Looking at the comparative reasoning of the law with the text of the law then we see a huge discrepancy that leads to doubt. Namely, the explanation of the article says, I quote: "The fosterer has the right to monthly compensation.". It is listed as a thousand 440 kuna, a thousand 600 kuna, a thousand 760 kuna and up to 5 thousand kuna for children's accommodation. For adults, there is a figure of 440, a thousand 600 and a thousand 920 kuna. These amounts are significantly different from the amounts arising from the text of the law. One small indent in the explanation says, quotes: "This fee is aimed exclusively at meeting the needs of the located person.". That's what makes the argument actually talk about what's so-called. the provision, not the householder's fee, as it's written. It's a saying that there's a fee written to the foster parent. This text is misleading because so far, household users have had supplies in these amounts that have not changed since 2001, although the state budget has so far grown significantly. We don't know for what reasons this vagueness has been introduced but it's quite certain that the baseless claims made by those who say that the foster parents have never received anything before and are now given to them from a thousand to five thousand kunas a month. Furthermore, for us in Croatia, it is unacceptable to reduce the number of users in a single foster home from 5 to 4 of course for adults. On the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, we heard the argument that the Government decided on such a move because of the abuse of fosterers who placed users in inadequate spaces, inhuman living conditions, that the relationship with users was brutal, etc. Of course we're against any abuse of foster care. And if there has been abuse and housing in inhumane housing conditions, in inadequate housing, therefore, we solely consider the responsible ministry responsible for social care. Namely, no one gained foster status without obtaining the approval of the competent ministry. In order to obtain approval, he had to meet the prescribed conditions and also with regard to accommodation. The existence of a condition had to be established and this someone is an employee of the Social Care Centre responsible for the ministry. How is it possible for a person to be granted approval and to be later established that there are no appropriate conditions? It is obvious that there is also a problem here in overseeing the implementation of laws and sublegal acts but that is not the problem of the foster home but of the competent ministry. If such a practice continues, abuse will happen again regardless of the reduction in the number of users in one foster parent. In our first reading discussion, we indicated that the failures were both in the work of the foster home and in the work of the welfare center. We cited a drastic example of the householder's user who was situated without the foster parent having any idea that he was a TBC patient and was subsequently found to be the competent center to know but deliberately suppressed the information. We asked for a more detailed legal arrangement of the householder's obligations as well as the social care centre's obligations, but the applicant did not even refer to the reasons why he did not accept it. As a major progress, the establishment of foster care teams with 41 employees whose work will be allocated an additional 7 million kuna, but the law does not say anything about what these teams will be tasked with, what they will do and whether some responsibility rests on them. Host education is very necessary but according to these numbers of color and overpriced. So, resembling the Croatian Peasants' Club welcomes the introduction of the foster home register. Come on, we'll also welcome the foster teams. We also welcome the introduction of strict controls on foster activities but it is unacceptable for us to reduce the number of users to four in one foster home, it is for adults. It is unacceptable for us to have too low personal compensation for the foster parent, it is unacceptable to have a superficial and incomplete arrangement of the rights and obligations of the fosterer and the social care centre, and in fact there are reasons why the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party has been abstained from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93672	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected colleague of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93673	Well, there are several incorrect allegations. I'd like to correct a colleague who says it's been discussed and said it's not true they haven't won anything before. We are always talking about supplies in the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, and when reading this law, it is clear that there has been a little confusion. This is about supplies, and page 10 is about the benefits families need to receive. And the fact that... I can read it and it says so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I'm saying, and he warned a colleague in front of a pensioner in his first reading that this was about supplies. And that the teams are not regulated by this law, it is above all not the same because it implies, the following tasks of the teams under this law, the establishment and fulfilment of the prescribed conditions for the provision of foster care, the assessment of the likeness of a family to deal with foster care, the granting of permits, the education of foster parents and the provision of professional support to foster parents, the conduct of the family supervisory work and the constant monitoring of the work of the foster family. So it comes from this law, and the rest will be regulated by the rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93674	Okay, and I'm left with to find out that in the final section you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't follow the correction of the incorrect quote because you started reading legal texts, parts that don't even apply to the part that your colleague was saying. And in that respect... In the first part, you fixed it, and after that, you actually started the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please about control is why I'm here. Here you go, Officer Lalic's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93675	So the violation of Article 209 is exactly what a colleague corrects by reading the reasoning of the law, and I was talking about the text of the law. The interpretation of the law cannot assume legal provisions, so when an incorrect assumption is corrected then I had to be denied by the text of the law, but of course the colleague could not deny it by the text of the law because it was exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93676	Thank you very much. We've already agreed to that part. And now on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected foster parents and foster parents, we are pleased to have you with us today because you are truly people of great heart full of humanity, and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the final proposal of the Household Act, bearing in mind the new guidelines for deinstitutionalisation i.e. an increase in the number of institutional forms of care the future child cannot live in a biological family. Unfortunately, today we are aware that over 1,500 children grow up in institutions for a long time. The foster family is a replacement family that provides care for a child or an adult for 24 hours with a lot of love, warmth and understanding. The law prescribes conditions of housing, nutrition, preservation, education, health care, and all under the control of the social care center. Despite the 105-year tradition so far, we have not had a law, and in certain areas our country's foster care is weak and developed and we believe that this law and this debate will now contribute to the sensitisation of the need for foster care. Of course, a small trend in household growth cannot be satisfied with 2-4% per year especially when by 2009 the number of users in institutions needs to be reduced by 25%. The number of beneficiaries of care rights and for their own families uses 19 thousand 681. The number of users in the home of social care is 13 thousand 804, 2006 and 5 thousand 877 people are located in foster families. The number of children and youngsters located in the total number of accommodation shows a decrease as the proportion of adults and older people increases from statistics is understandable. Of the total number of children in foster families, more than 70% are children without adequate parental care, and of the total number of adults, 78% are in the category of elderly and powerless, or mentally ill adults. In the first reading, we pointed out the fact that foster parents are 40 to 60 years old, and only 20.3% of existing foster parents are persons up to 40 years old. We therefore also commend the decision in the second reading and the correction to increase the age limit to 60 years. Although the proposal for professional training has been rejected since 49.36% of foster parents are without a school with incomplete primary school and complete primary school education, we consider the need for continuous education because sometimes it is a sensitive category of users, children who spent an average of 4.5 to 7 years in a home, children with special needs, mentalally ill persons, etc. Certainly, foster care teams also have a purpose in view of the regulation of the conditions for the provision of foster care, the authorisation, the implementation of education, the conduct of the household supervisory work, with constant monitoring of the foster family, which has so far proved insufficient. The adoption of this law will regulate the rights and obligations of fosterers for children and adults, the obligations of the social care centre, the establishment of the register of foster families and registers of located users. The authorisation procedure, the period of validity and the renewal procedure shall also be prescribed. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the adoption of this law, apart from the above, will also contribute to further sensitivity of the public on the need to reduce institutional housing of children and popularise foster care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93678	Thank you, dear colleague. And on behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, gentlemen of the foster home and foster home. I think this is an extremely important law because this law speaks of human destiny. It is not just about small children, as the public would have guessed, this law speaks clearly about young children, but also about older children, it speaks about older people. This law speaks of physically or mentally damaged persons as well as psychically ill persons, old, powerless persons, victims of violence, and not to list anything further. As for this age structure of users located in foster families, we received some data, so to say, by the age of 7 of 2005 there were 417 children in foster families, 2006. 359, so it's going down. More than 7 to 15 years ago in 2005, there were 214 children, in 2006 a thousand 74, so there was something falling. That number. Over 15 to 18 years ago, we had 613 children, 2006. 610 children. From 18 to 30 years 279 2005, 277 2006 But there was an increase in the number of users in foster families between 30 and 40 years of age, or 40 to 45 years of age. As for people who have more than 60, meaning up to 65 years old and also over 65 to 70 years old, more than 70 years of age have also been adopted in 2006 than in 2005. The number of foster children, which in 2005 was 5 thousand 872, 5 thousand 877 2006, and in 2006, we had a total of 2 thousand 675 foster families. On page 12, I think it is also necessary to quote because it concerns the personal compensation of the foster parent. He literally says that according to the applicable rules, the fosterer has the right to monthly compensation. The amount of household benefits shall be determined in the light of the home and needs of the beneficiary located in the foster home family since the foster care benefits as well as other social benefits are determined according to the base of 400 kuna established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It stands for a preschool child of 360% of the base, which will say a thousand 440 kuna. For a child of school age, 400% will base a thousand 600 kuna. For the accommodation of a disabled preschool child, this fee is a thousand 600 kuna, and for such a child of school age is 440% of the base or a thousand 760 kuna, and for the accommodation of a HIV-positive child the foster care is a thousand 250% base or 5 thousand kuna. For the accommodation of an adult mobile person, the fee is a thousand 440 kuna and a fixed thousand 920 kuna. And don't let me count it any further. In order not to quote the articles now, the foster family recently provided us with an interesting draft of the Household Act, so among other things, a foster parent may be a person who, on the day of submission, is more than 21 years of age and under 55 years of age. They suggest 65 years of life. You absolutely need to support that. They should also support their comments on Article 6 of foster parents over 45 years of age, who have at least two years of experience in fostering children and positive assessments of experience are recognised instead of high school which the same legislator has now accepted. Children under the age of 45 are given an extension of the school permit of their choice. It's also understandable. I may be a little reserved around one of their remarks that a foster parent can receive children with normal and special needs at the same time if, according to the expert team's assessment, they have appropriate abilities and motivations and pass the prescribed education for these species. But I don't think you should meet these people here either. In fact, and what may be crucial is this article 27, which speaks of these basics, or rather, the fees they propose, and I think that it should go in that direction and the legislator's intensity. It was interesting today to discuss the adoption of a child. It's clear. That debate or rather that institute should be distinguished from foster care. I think the government is on a good track, provided the Parliament adopts it, to eliminate the maximum allowable good difference between a potential adoptor and a child. Why does it matter, and what does that have to do with this Law? So many couples because of their age that can't have children, actually find themselves in a fake foster home or enter that false foster status because they can't adopt children. Namely, the current Law or laws better states that the difference must not exceed 40, especially 45 years, and then whoever adopts children, often something that is older than 40 years, or in his order to express myself so... As a rule, his wife, who is slightly less than 40 years old, and then happens that a mate can't adopt a child and is adopted by that younger spouse, so the mother becomes that child's mother, and the father simply has no relationship with that formal legal child, and it is good that the legislator is proposing to change that principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or should I say he's in the so-called today? Incomplete adoption has gone beyond a hundred children. Today, someone who is 50 years old de facto could not adopt a child of 3 or 4 years of age, and it is not good and good to go in the direction of amending that Law. I'll say it one more time. What's ahead of us is one extremely delicate substance. This is simply a matter of human destiny. Here it is, in some ways, under quotes of parental obligations, rights, and in some ways it must be the most sacred and most resourceful matter. The foster care absolutely needs to be supported, it's a huge concern, it's a huge responsibility, it's a huge commitment, love for the other. We have also received an interesting questionnaire with interesting questions that may also be quoted as saying: "Respected parliamentary representative, respected MPs, that it depends on you whether children without parental care will grow up in children's homes although it is scientifically proven to bring irreparable damage to the emotional and cognitive development of young children, and makes it difficult for small and large children to become later involved in society and successful parenting. What would you say yes or no? And now that I'm not quoting all these questions, there are actually four such questions. I said, once again, this is extremely serious matter. That's not like changing the rate of some tax by one or two points. It's not some banal law. It's a law that tangs the fates of children, those who foster them and so on. Social communities as a whole, and perhaps this legislative proposal could go to third reading. I repeat, this is a matter of responsibility. So we won't be 100% sure of what we're standing behind. In some ways, the fate of thousands and thousands of people in this country depends on us, or just as I just said five thousand and some guardians. This depends clearly or requires one responsible approach. Material sensitivity to foster care, social recognition that we must show these foster parents. Peaceful even recognition to those persons who are involved in this responsible work and so on. If you did yesterday, it is, i.e. Even today, she hasn't paid a fee for the work of foster parents, and today this fee is being proposed, and that's progress. And no one can question that. Maybe that's not enough progress, but that's progress. And that is why it is in principle that the law should be supported, and it may be good if such a legal proposal goes into the third reading. Of course, you shouldn't be here because the hypersensitive matter is an evil one. Let's offer something maybe even better because these foster people deserve it. On the other hand, these children or adults either, or people with developmental disorders and the like, they are ours, who are our fellow citizens in these families. So they all deserve one correct status. Children, foster parents and so on. And what a relationship we have with them will it be to believe in the most representative way to legitimize not only us in this House but society as a whole. In principle, the law on foster care but perhaps it would be good if the law went into third reading to try some material and other solutions in the talks with these associations to change and clearly to the people who took over this responsible community to meet how clearly this is consistent with budgetary and other possibilities in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93680	Thank you very much. I'd just have to remind myself that principled support for the law is given in the first reading. In the second reading, amendments requiring a third reading should be made. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. At first, let me say that I support the adoption of this law that regulates a very sensitive, very sensitive area concerning both children and the area concerned by the old and the powerless. I won't be long in my debate because even in my first reading, I think this law was supported by consensus, but also by all committees, by the parent board of the family, youth and sport in which I myself participate, there was no one from any club that came from any party of major objections. I have to say, this is a big step. The foster home worked with us and has a great tradition of 105 years. Although we now see that everything in the 7th article of the Law on Social Care is regulated, we now dedicate to this sensitive area a whole law that will regulate and regulate the relations of the foster parent and the host. I must point out that this is a great advantage. That fostering is one big step as far as one side is concerned, we can say freely for him that the primary prevention of institutionalization as the worst form of care for any child was adults, and on the other hand, we can say that fostering and deinstitutionalisation programme is once again improving life from this category, the category of users. This morning we talked about the Law supplementing the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements, the Family Law, and there was a controversial family, which is why they divorce and so on. I'd just like to touch a little bit on what's important to the foster parent and how much to relate to these discussions before they were, which have caught one irrelevant, in this case I consider irrelevant facts and compensations which, once again, turn out to be paid and so on. He says if we take the family as one, one gift. He who believes said he is the gift of God. And we know that man is not meant to live alone. And indeed he does make it into the new community he leaves his community, builds his marriage community, abandons his parents, and of course the children come. It's all nice. It would be said that children are the spring of this family and that families and children also have in such a community all the conditions to grow up and grow into the right people. People who will be useful to themselves and to the society they live in. Unfortunately, however, reality is quite different. And today, a few, I can't stand the numbers of how many hundreds of children have no luck growing up in those families. How many thousands of adults, old and powerless, are not so fortunate to end their lives in their homes with the support of their family members, and what would all of you do if there weren't just these foster parents here? That there aren't people sitting around and similar to them who aren't here today and who aren't here to get cash compensation, not because of it, but to do someone good. So that the child can get safety, so that the child can get the environment that is almost identical to her biological family. So that that child can get stability and support when he needs it most. So if that old and powerless had one of his own, had one of his own, I'd tell my own safety for my life while it's at its end. I'll take you to the hospital. I'll take you to the hospital. I'll take you to the hospital. That's why I think this is the size of these foster parents because they support the most sensitive two populations. In addition, if they worked with seven articles, I pray the law itself and the passing of this law a great step, and so I will look back at what our minister has begun to give heart to all himself and that is the truth. But I believe our minister is ambitious. It is ambitious that the government of which it is a member and that this law will see changes, but the changes for the better and will not eventually be such a question as today's law was intended to be laid down just like these questions about whether the fee is paid, whether it is not paid, how big it is. People who do this job don't ask for compensation. They do it for themselves, for the sake of the heart... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93682	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the foster home. Well, here's as we've heard before that foster care has a great tradition with us and a length of 105 years, and we haven't had a law so far, I understand this bill as well as promoting foster care, but also as a recognition to all our valuable foster parents. If we look at the fact that we have defined ourselves for deinstitutionalization, means for the accommodation of users outside the institutions, and if we look at one of the data that we have received here, then we see that the number of users is the right to care outside their own family, and located in the House of Social Care and the foster home, that when accommodation in social care this number is slowly falling and that 530 is less than in 2003, and the accommodation in foster families is slightly growing and that it is higher by 327. They've all taken care of it means a total of 5877 which is somewhere around, slightly less than 30% on the total number, totaled. So, all of these were fostered by 2675 families — some 82 families more than in 2003. Normally, we want the number of foster families to be bigger, because we think that such accommodation for the user is much more favourable, that it is more humane, that it is simply humane and that is why we want to encourage it. What I would like to say about a data that is like this might expect different results if the number of children and youngsters who are staying in foster families were actually slowly falling, while the number of adults and older ones is increasing. I am particularly pleased that the number of older and powerless people is increasing and that the number of people who have had physical and mental problems is increasing, and that they have physical and mental difficulties, as we can see that in our society, more and more places are being found for such persons, and we are aware that they have certainly been stigmatized. What I would like to say is here in relation to the second reading, on all the good suggestions that there are here, means that in Article 9, instead of three adult users, we have accepted the debate with five we were on three and now we have returned to four users. Some here have suggested that three users are enough for adults, and children could be five. I wouldn't agree with that. I think this number is more appropriate three, and who needs more foster homes then can start a family home anyway. What I would like to say is that it is a significant shift that is predicted to be special teams in social care centres that will work on education, support and control foster parents. We must say that in addition to having a truly great number of those who, with great love and sacrifice, care for their foster parents that there should still be one control in all of this. There have been a lot of speeches here and about the right to monthly compensation certainly as the minister said and I say it would certainly be happier if it were that and that it was worth your effort and your work that it should be bigger but I think it's also a significant step and these 400 kunas. I know, I work as an outside associate at the Social Services Center and often come to me powerless for other people's help and care, and they're more of a problem that they don't have for life than they're sick, so here's what I think these 400 kunas are gonna do for you in this responsible and human business. Because just as the foster parent says, he has one noble and higher goal and is not his goal and purpose, although it certainly does not need to be neglected. I'd just like to say that in my county where there's a large percentage of the unemployed that there's a lot of the old age population, that it should certainly be one of the forms where people could infuse themselves, and also give help to others and something to earn. That's why I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93684	Thank you. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak on this subject. There's a respected colleague named Pearl Perman. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In developed European countries, fostering unsecured children is adequately paid, while in Croatia this remains underdeveloped and underrated form of social care. In 2005, about 2,300 children were fostered, but more than 1500 remained in children's homes, although this is the worst solution for them, while 195 foster families are waiting for children to be fostered. For the accommodation of a healthy child, the foster family has so far received between 1440 and 1600 kunas per month, which should cover all the costs of food and clothing to the Jeparac, while the foster parents should receive 400 to 1200 kuna, depending on the number of children, and otherwise the accommodation of the child in the home of the country stands from 5500 and even up to 7,000 kuna. However, it has been shown that the system is not coordinated enough, so interested families have been waiting very long for the accommodation of children who are in institutions at the time. Recently, we had opportunities to read in the newspaper about the case of a foster mother, the mother of two children who has all the characteristics that the law requires. So, the young woman, from the urban environment, was employed, materially taken care of but almost two years had no child she would have cared about even though she had sent all the necessary papers and documents to the competent social care centre in October 2004 and started the process of obtaining a license for foster parents. When they finally got that license, it was almost two years ago, and no one came to them. And when they were finally to get a girl with special needs, which was due to go to school in autumn 2006, due to incomprehensible administrative obstacles, she did not come into the family until the spring of this year, and no contract has been concluded with the centre or the foster mother has received any compensation. I am pleased that the foster care in Croatia is finally and legally regulated, but I am afraid that the application of this law will not contribute significantly to the development of quality fostering of children or deinstitutionalisation of child care in Croatia. It is good that foster care for children is defined and regulated separately from foster care for adults, and that it is also possible to accommodate more than one type of family users, which encourages fostering fostering people with special needs. It is commendable that it is recognized that the school prepares and foster age are not crucial as the main criterion for their foster care. But worrying is that the number of children except when it comes to brothers and sisters is reduced from five to three. This prevents positive practice in multi-member foster families who most often have more than one biological child, where, through a shared family life with a number of children with dedicated care and education by experienced and educated foster parents, very good results are achieved. Experiences from European countries show that children who are located individually in foster families, which are mostly in our case, feel isolated and different from others, and that in developing European countries with well-developed professional support for foster parents and children, the only real solution for children is in more and more cases. Social care centres are already starting to apply this provision so that the licenses for foster parents that are now being extended are already being reduced from five to three children, which is why all foster parents who now have more than three children are actually being placed in a position to work illegally. It is true that the minister said that the introduction of an effort compensation for fosterers is a shift from practice so far but symbolic compensation for the efforts of the foster parents does not stimulate further development of foster care. It may also meet the needs of foster parents in rural areas that can be saved by food production for protection supplies, but this will not support the development of foster care in urban areas such as Zagreb, and children are sent to the surrounding villages. In coastal areas where there is also a similar case, where families should be motivated to devote themselves to the activity of tourism and foster care. Symbolic fees also do not address the question of working status and pensions of foster children who, after years of care for children, will remain social cases without any income unless they are given more adequate benefits from which at least they could pay themselves for pension or health insurance if they are already working as so-called. humanitarian volunteers of the country. I think that human and humanitarian work can and should be done but the state should provide adequate compensation for its citizens who, on behalf of the state, care for children who care about the same state. I see no problem with foster care becoming a profession, for teachers and educators work for wages and for the welfare of children. The effort should certainly be evaluated but it is also important that the choice and supervision of the foster parent be as high as possible. Here, in the light of the law in law-edited issues, a reduction in the number of users is spoken and explained, and it is said that in order to improve the quality of care through foster accommodation, this law proposes a reduction in the number of users in a foster family. It is personally unclear to me how the reduction in the number of users improves the quality of care and why has it been unquality so far, I think there have been such conclusions in the first place? How, in fact, will such a proposal help to improve quality of care significantly? It's really hard to read out of this. And here's one final observation, given that I am also a personal member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, where it is said here at the very end, on page 29, when it comes to proposals and opinions given by the law, which the promoter did not accept, so under point 4, it is said that the observation of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports relating to the religious education of the user is not included in the law, because this area is already governed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's not exactly a quote and it's not exactly what it says here, because it wasn't the board's remark, it was only one member's remark just to be clear. Well, I think that's the way it should be presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93686	Thank you. It's my dear colleague Kozin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93687	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the foster home! Let me say first, we were at first reading the law talking a lot more about it, so we wouldn't repeat it now. He'd only say what's most important. Here is the final proposal of the Household Act, because foster care is imposed as a priority in the Republic of Croatia, as a form of concern outside your own family, child or adult. This is very important because the potentials of care through this form are great. And to use this explanation of yours here on page 15. You are saying that accommodation in a foster family in social care services is clearly recognised as a more natural and cheaper form of care that provides the person with protection and the possibility of living in a family environment and that his application is constantly increasing. I agree with that, and we talked a lot about it. Allow me, given that this is now a final proposal so that I can say a few words about some articles, because some things are unreasonable for me too, so that we can try and explain a little bit. Here, in Article 2(6), it says: "A family foster family is a foster family whose members are related in blood or in the Tassian family to a householder.". I don't know what the difference between this previous one and this one is, it's not very clear to me, you should see it because I agree, because point 1. says: "A foster home is a form of care outside of a family that provides child or an adult with care in a foster family.". I think it should be the same. Furthermore, in Article 3 of you here, point 4 states: "The conditions regarding housing, social and other conditions are prescribed by the Minister responsible for social care.". I think that should be minimum conditions, that those minimum terms should be written by the minister, and also to be seen, that the observed situation is respected. I don't know how you regulate it. I didn't see it in reason or anywhere about it. Then, in Article 4, you say: “A foster family cannot be a family.". So it is said here in the passport: "whose member is legally convicted of a crime against life and the body, against freedom and the rights of man and citizen, against sexual freedom and sexual disorder, and against marriage, family and youth.". I don't know how this welfare center will have that information unless there's gonna be a network of the entire state administration system. You're probably thinking about that. Furthermore, in Article 7, you speak of what needs to be a foster family, etc. In Article 9, you also say that point 2: "The number of users referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is reduced by the number of persons living in a foster family on the basis of a life or life support contract.". I would ask you to do this for life, not to use that term because that term has caused us big problems in the country, many people have had a big problem, they've stayed practically on the road because they've signed a life support agreement. You know what happened there. So I'd just like to use this term for life, and this for life to get rid of this until exactly what life support is. Also, in Article 10, you say point 2: "In procedures for granting, renewing and withdrawing permits, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act shall apply if this law is not different.". So I think this general administrative, general administrative procedure law, it's a very broad law, it has very high powers, so I don't know how good it is to use it and I didn't see that this law provides for a way to do it. Here is the permit to carry out the householding of Article 14: "is withdrawn before the expiry of the period for which the fosterer carries out foster care against the interests of the users, by performing some of the reasons leading to the inability to comply with the household rules laid down in Articles 3 and 4 of this Act if the foster parent does not perform compulsory supplementary training in accordance with Article 16(8) of this Act." I fully welcome this, and I especially advocate that foster parents have special education, that they do it, especially for those who do not have adequate expertise, that it is recognised to them just as if they do if they have an additional education. And now article 17 of the special obligation of foster parents to children. I think this is a very broad law, and it asks very much of the foster home, and I'm saying that because when we get to the supply, then we need to see a way to respect this 17th supply so that we see the exact specification of what is being sought here and what is then available through the supply. Article 18 states: "The fosterer is obliged to provide assistance to an established adult in meeting his daily needs and to encourage the adoption of certain skills in view of his remaining abilities and for the sake of his isolation.". To predict that even then a physiotherapist would come into this foster family that would then help that person improve his psycho-physical or physical strength, the condition so that this Article 18 can then be respected. And now, foster care, supplies. That is why I read what to see because point 2 says here: "The amount of supplies given age, health status and needs of users is determined by the minister.". Now, Mr. Minister, I'm in this argument here if I read this correctly, it's on page 23 II. point 2 is talked about "the personal compensation to the foster home." I don't think it's a personal fee, that it's probably a supply because it's talking about all the characteristics that we've mentioned in advance. Well, I accept this completely. And I accept the same personal compensation of the foster home. I would only suggest now that given the growth of funds and health care and this part of the Ministry of Health and Social Care that you think about it a little bit and that this base increases if not 150% then by at least 25%, so that you get the right ratio of strength around these separations. I am that it is however human or anything else you want, but without the means, you probably can't do it all. I suggest you see these possibilities because I said it last time, I don't know how much you agreed with these foster representatives to try to find a common language and try. You said something in the opening statement that you had a deal, so I'd be glad to have you guys come to an end and see this possibility. And since you're here personally, I'd like to ask for one hand. Here's the article of the 158th Law. He says: "Social care work is done by a social worker, a psychologist, a defecologist, a pedagogue.". Now I'd like to put in another primary healthcare doctor instead of a nurse because I don't think a nurse has the widest knowledge that can provide health care, especially where these homes are large and where there is an increasing need for health care for these older users. So if it's possible for you to see it a little bit, at least look at the law and see if it's possible to fix this. Since this is not the subject of amending and supplementing the law, is there any possibility of doing so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93688	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Mr. Ljubicic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93689	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say a few things in the end. First something that might be about objections. Another thing about really some quality and good suggestions that I'm thinking about, and what we've actually done somewhere else. First of all, we've been talking a lot here today about stimulating foster care, stimulating foster parents. It's not just money that matters most. Right, money is a very important thing because without it, we can't live. And when you talk about money, the answer here is to share two things. One is supply, so what is given for the user himself. And the second is the foster care. And you see the proposal was that, I won't politicize, I won't tell from who, but there was a proposal to put a fixed amount. No, we said we'd put it against the budget base. Why? So when this budget base, and here's the coalition partner, has discovered something a little bit, it increases by a certain percentage of automation by actually increasing both the supply and the householder's fees. And now, and our foster parents will know best if we increase the social base by 20%, which means 4 adults and what that means for foster care. So they'll reach almost ten thousand kuna. So, of course, that's what I said in the plan, and that's what I said when I put out the amendments and the addition of the Social Care Act is to raise this social foundation, and that's why we also referred here and when I said, "Let's not look at our feet but let's actually look a little ahead then of course I'm thinking about it." Whatever you do in life and do in quality, and no one recognizes it, no one sees with time raise your hands. And that was exactly the biggest problem. People were doing good. People do well and quality without actually having support. Often they come to the door and our centers, so I'll tell my ministry. They come with many of their objections, but with requests. They want to work things out. They want to improve certain segments. They have suggestions but no one listens to them. And that's why we wanted to integrate it into the law to finally make their voice clear. And how will it be heard? Well, they'll be heard through those teams. Well, these teams aren't the administrative body that's going to exist for themselves now. No, but that these people can come, that we know who it is who's in charge of foster care at every center and say what's the problem? What are they trying to solve? What do they want to improve? And it's called the perspective of the system. Well, when someone has that kind of community attention, then of course they'll feel that they have the support themselves. It will be passed on to others, and of course we can further develop the system. There's one more thing I need to mention here. So I don't want to freak anyone out. But you should say so. One of the basics is paying. I remember in early 2004 they were practically paid for in a delay of about 90 days if I wasn't wrong. Somewhere like that. So they were late for payments. We pay regularly today. Each month neatly they get the amount that is intended. And it's also a very important segment in stimulating or our message to them: Yes, we appreciate it. We respect that. And we're clearly showing that that's how it is. Of course, if we're talking about the number of users, I'd just like to point out one thing that we've remained in the establishment of family homes. Here in the last month I have signed six or seven family homes throughout Croatia. So all those who will have 5 and more users start family homes, but these already have to have a certain degree of professionalism. So foster care, is that one day going to become professionalism? So one profession I'm going to say is that it's a matter of one debate. Intimately, I think that it is necessary to endure this and see intimately tomorrow foster care as a private profession with which foster parents or at least one member of the foster family will definitely be able to achieve tomorrow's retirement. I say it myself, I see it, but let's let the debate develop about it without delaying the adoption of this law because I really think that in this area there was one big and legal but also all kinds of other voids. It was said why didn't we define minimum conditions? I'll say so here's the thing about people. We're talking minimum terms for equipment and space. When people are then they must be optimal. And optimally, we never write, but put conditions. So, is it? Secondly, of course many things in the law in terms of enforcement could not stand. That's what we're going to do with the sublegal acts. So we're going to solve the rules by which we prescribe certain rules and we didn't simply want the law to be with thousands of pages that are, which are therefore not clearly legible. What I'd like to say in the end, and I just have to look at it, you're going to let me, and that was actually said at the very beginning, and that's where it was imputed that in the welfare system it would stand out when, therefore, I don't know how to save for drugs. It is therefore imputable to give priority to the health system and to put the social care system in a different way. I want to clearly reject such imputations by certain politicians who have said so here. Why? Because, and here's the argument I'm going to say. Only these two laws we discussed today have the value of 50 million kuna. In the divisions of positions and they are completely separated for health care and social care, and this is seen in our budgets each year, this segment of social care grew more in these 4 years, so the government's mandate than it grew in 4 years of the term of office of the last government. And the argument is that we've put a huge quantity of funds into the staff alone, 446 new employees. What new employees? Well, the foster parents are here to tell you themselves. They came downtown to ask for legal help. 12 centres, large centres in Croatia had no lawyers, ladies and gentlemen, no legal services, lawyers. So how can our foster parents get legal advice? They went to a lawyer and paid for it. I already mentioned homes for children without adequate parental care. There were no psychologists in any home. Today all homes have a psychologist. I'm not going to say that the fullness of the professionals, so the social worker, the defectologist, any type of rehabilitator was about 40%. It's over 80% today, and that's why we can talk about patronage today, so today we can talk about empowering de institutionalization by telling our foster parents you're not alone, we're worried about you. And that's basically the message, and of course it was supposed to create preconditions over the past three years. And finally, investment in infrastructure. I think it was also in the sentence, two and said about it. 40% of the financial investment in infrastructure in the government's mandate compared to the last one. I don't want to recruit anyone, his work, away from it. But with someone and somewhere you have to compare. But what's basic and that's to reject this imputation, so these claims, and that's when it stays for the drugs that will be given into the welfare system. That's definitely not true. I reject that, and today the welfare system is more stable and firmer in Croatia than ever. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93690	Thank you. Final draft law on foster care. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Club of HNS Representatives. Committee on, where's the Legislative Committee here? ... The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93692	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93693	That's on, one amendment has? Unacceptable What? [[Intruder: Unacceptable.]] Secretary of State, please speak up.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93694	Unacceptable Thus, in words of identity in this article is much wider... [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93695	Retracted, withdrawn amendment. The HNS rep club?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93696	The amendment is accepted with the change that fostering a child is more than 50 years old... [[Because of the presidential bell you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93697	The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93698	The aim of the amendment was to freeze the current situation, the current foster parents who were over 50 years old from the foster home. That you, those contracts don't break. By accepting the amendment, we didn't do it, we didn't do it. I'd like to ask you to vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93699	Secretary of State you said you accepted that amendment in a certain modified form Did you hear that altered form? [[Intruder: Yes.]] Give it a repeat, give it a rest, please. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Repeat that precisely and loudly. [[Then here's the deal.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93700	Therefore, the amendment is accepted, subject to an amendment, where the amendment states that fosterers who, on the day of entry into force of this law, have children fostered and do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 6 of this Act or the difference between foster parents and foster children is greater than 60 years of age. We say, that's where we're looking for a change to be 50 years in accordance with all the other provisions of this bill. And the whole thing goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. These users are entitled to care outside our own family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we accept the entire amendment just a 50-year limit, not 60. There's a difference between. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93701	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93702	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93703	So the amendment accepted in this amended form. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 88 votes to go. 12 abstentions. Proposed legislation in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Given that proposal and the initiative of respected MP Ljubica Lalić to me, it was adoption, not fostering yes, yes. It's gone so I can't, we can't see if it's up now, if that law can be applied now. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would suggest we conduct a united discussion of three laws. It is - Final proposal of the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 725; - Final proposal of the Law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 726; - Final proposal of the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 724; we've accepted an emergency procedure for all three of these laws. There's no objection, so we can. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour and Social Policy. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic will further explain the proposals of these three laws. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93705	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think there's anyone here who doesn't really know the asbestos problem, who doesn't know the problem of people who are sick because they've been exposed professionally in their asbestos work. But let me, and I have to say it today, and here's some reminiscing of my own. In the seventh month of 2004, and I was still an assistant for the first time I had the opportunity to receive an association of asbestos patients and therefore part of a practical worker who worked at the “Salonite” in Vranjica. There's been a lot of them. I think there were about 20 of them. So we couldn't all sit at the table, so we sat all over the place, and then they told me something I couldn't believe. So, the seventh month of 2004. I'll quote the speech. He says, “You know, we've been poisoned for years, and now we pay for our own medical examinations. They promised us a law of compensation, and they gave us the Law of Promise." And then I have to admit here and for the first time I had the chance to meet these people. It wasn't even the last one, because behind it we met all the way down the road because this problem wasn't easy to solve and it's very complex. You may not see from the quantums of these laws, but out of them a lot, a lot of things actually slip through. Since then, it has actually begun to solve what could not or would not have been solved in the years before. And what didn't want to get rid of it? So here is one fact that from 1991 to 2003, a total of 482 cases that have been handed over throughout Croatia in our courts due to damage claims related to professional diseases are naturally caused by asbestos. One part of it's been solved. Unfortunately, one part still breaks down to say the door of the courts and who knows when it will be solved. Offered in this way, but also offered in fact, the Government is offered an effort to solve this great trauma, and to solve it in the same way as the UK and the Netherlands and Spain and France, so here we are in neighbouring Slovenia. We're proposing today in the emergency procedure of three laws. We propose the Law on the Compensation of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbestos with the Final Proposal for Law, the Law on Conditions for Getting the Right to Age Retirement of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbestos with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Law on Mandatory Health Control of Workers Professionally Exposured to the Final Proposal of the Law. Let me have another piece of information that's a little familiar, which should certainly be said today. Here's to the former state, and I'll tell you how they actually went to quote it, said members of our associations. It says, “in the country of friends and comrades I was allowed to quote the amount of 175 fibers per metre of cubic asbestos particles.” The standard for Europe is up to 2 particles per metre cubic meters. 175 and two. It is in this misunderstanding that it is clear what these people have experienced, but also what our task today is to correct this great injustice, and that this is in the best possible way that we can help these people and help them, but also ensure that their health is constantly being monitored, and not that their examination of the disease did not result in his own guilt today, or until yesterday they had to pay better. When we talk about the compensation of workers of professional asbestos, we have in fact clearly defined that all those in whom a professional disease will be proven, and we have categorized this professional disease in several situations which are related to the professional exposure of asbestos. However, we have included here all those who are practically in the process of trial, but where they have not yet received the word, or have not received a final solution, or have not been paid compensation. Also, and I have to admit that we got the full consensus again and the Economic and Social Council, and this is not so to brag, this is something that is really normal and that should probably have been resolved five, six years ago, but it's not, we're dealing with now, and that is that we actually decided that these amounts related to compensation can be inherited. Why? Unfortunately, among those who have been professionally exposed to asbestos for 10, 20, 30 years after they stop exposed to this asbestos, there can be severe complications and severe health problems and even fatal ones, I am talking about lung tumors and I'm talking about lung cancer. Someone with lung cancer may not experience it because of their condition, and that is why we have decided that this can be inherited, which means that this person is basically transferring his right to his rightful heir and that he can therefore inherit it. What should certainly be highlighted is that this law is part of a convention that protects workers' rights, but also part of European legislation. So in this area, Croatia is in line with European legislation, I will repeat, because in the same way as we do today, this problem has been solved by France, Spain, Great Britain, Slovenia and other countries years ago. How we made compensation, or how we would pay it. In accordance with the solutions already in place in the European Union, we have formed practically one scale of coefficients that are related to various diseases, or conditions, but making sure that the disease itself is not the only parameter but that it is also a damage to function. So for example, if someone has a proven disease, asbestos that's caused by the accumulation of asbestos in their lungs, we're not just going to have asbestos as a basis for calculating damage, but we're going to have a dysfunction of function. And that's exactly the range of coefficients I repeat is completely consistent with the unions, with employers, we've done practically one division where, for example, the coefficient of 1.5 is related to changes in the lung envelope, to the water in the lungs, that the coefficient of 4 is related to asbestos, 9 to lung cancer and 12 to mesothelia, so the malignant lung tumor. Each of these coefficients shall be the five budgetary bases for the year in which the damage claim has been lodged. I repeat again that both trade unions and employers as a whole and associations, the vast majority of our associations, have accepted this way of calculating and the amounts that belong to them and the status of succession, and I think that finally after I say a great deal of promises, here comes the solution that this government is proposing. When we talk about the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, then we are actually talking about how to monitor the health status of workers, but also the process of diagnosing various professional diseases. And here I want to make it clear that perhaps one of the biggest obstacles has just been related to the diagnosis of certain professional diseases. And we have solved this problem of course in consensus again with the unions, together with employers, together with the profession and together with the association of the sick, because that is the only way we can come up with the best-quality solutions because they are not for someone else but for those of us who are in Croatia. So by uniting that Corps that knows best, of course they can also bring the best solutions. We define for the first time the bodies responsible for monitoring the health condition, but also those responsible for conducting a diagnostic procedure in suspecting a professional disease caused by asbestos. So after all the years we've said this once, I'm going to make it impossible for people who have been suffering from professional diseases related to asbestos exposure, who paid for medical services by 2004, to finally build it into law and to make it clear that these things don't happen again, and this government will never let that happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93706	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? The Legislative Committee? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93707	Honorable President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, esteemed Mr. Representatives. So in front of us, let's call that three asbestos laws. First, this 725 legislation on mandatory state health supervision takes over the financing of medical examinations by all persons exposed to asbestos. There are supposed to be about 2,000 such people in Croatia. The examinations are required for an article 5 over a period of 3 years. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In addition, the essence of the law may in some way be expressed in this Article 8 that a worker who, following the procedure laid down in Article 7 of this Act, has established the existence of professional diseases caused by asbestos is entitled to the basis of that disease established by the Health Insurance Act, etc. etc. It is further stated here that, starting with the fact that asbestos is a progressive disease resulting from the inhaling of asbestos dust or these fibres and often death for the result, and taking into account the professionally exposed asbestos, the problem has been approached and I do not list any further provisions, i.e. an explanation. Now, if any job has a consequence of the disease and the mortality, then such a simple industry should be kicked out of Croatia. In one way, her work should be banned. This package of laws, by calculating damages, weighs 32.8 million kuna. So 5 million kuna for mandatory health supervision, which is now, 7.8 million kuna for retirement plus 20 million kuna compensation. I doubt that working with asbestos can be avoided in 100 percent. In shipbuilding it will simply never be possible, whether it is a shipyard in Rijeka, Split, Pula or what I know of Trogir, but asbestos should not be produced in Croatia. I don't know what's going on down in Vranjica by Split today, but if a decision is made to ban production, then people should be offered an option I don't know through retirement or some alternative job. It should be clearly gradually possible to access and replace these water installations from asbestos. These are almost 30% in the Republic of Croatia, but not only in Croatia, but also in Western Europe. We know what the costs would be, but this issue will also need to be approached one day, or someone in the competent ministry should tell us if the water that flows through these pipes that are built with asbestos or asbestos, whether that water is 100% medically correct because this creates a sense of public danger. Everyone tells me clearly that water is 100% correct, but I would like to hear it clearly from some relevant bodies. As to the meaning of this Law 725, there is absolutely no need to dispute these provisions, they should be welcomed. The law under regular number 726 is the Proposal for a Law on conditions for obtaining the right to the retirement of workers who have been professionally exposed to it. So you also need clear support. Back in '96, '97. We have passed the law here in this House, more precisely we have fought for the miners of Stuljak who have similarly received the right to early retirement. At that time, it must have been an honest law against 250 to 300 of these lab miners. It's interesting that then some of them were, let's let the opposition be against it. I hope today we'll all be for this retirement pension higher than the people who were exposed to this asbestos. Where's the biggest problem, here's to talking from asbestos. It means Vranjic Split, it is Zagreb and Pula. And Pula. This is also what the damage claims are made to the courts in Pula, Zagreb, or Split. This Law will be difficult or will weigh 7.6 million kuna for 2008, 8 million kuna for 2009, 8.4 million kuna for 2010. In 2007 by my court, the law should be passed as soon as possible in five months should be paid about 3 million kuna and damage. Is that the final proposal? It is. This is the final proposal of good luck, so already at the 9th month, some of our workers who worked with this dangerous matter will be able to count on retirement. But what I'm afraid of, I'm afraid our administration will be able to handle all these pension requirements within that month. I'm afraid that's almost impossible at this point. So the real first pension if everything was ideal, if the pension system did what it does in Japan or Switzerland, then maybe those benefits could be paid or paid only in the 10th month of the 9th month. This time I am clearly protesting what cannot come to us by this Law on the Equality of Old and New Retired. I think the alarm really rang and that the difference of nearly 500, 600 kuna in favour of the old should be fixed as soon as possible. And finally, if we rebalanced the excess of 5 billion kuna, maybe part of that money could have gone to that category of Croatian pensioners. The essence of this law that the minister called small but important. This means Article 2 that if a worker has completed 50 years of life, i.e. 45 years of the life of women and 25 years of training insurance provided that for 10 years he has worked on the jobs referred to in Article 1(2), or item 1 of this Act, or if he has 53 years of life of a man, or 48 years of life of women and 30 years of training insurance, then he can retire. And what I once again want to appeal or call, means MIORH, pension insurance, that it starts paying off those pensions as soon as possible and that as soon as possible take those demands and take the job as one of the priorities. As far as this third law is concerned, it's a law under regular number 724 on the compensation of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. So keeping in mind that all assets are up to the '90s. the year was social property. It is fair to say that the state assumes on itself the obligation to pay compensation for asbestos patients or I don't know lung cancers, etc. I think that here, in some ways, is the point in this Article 4 which is that the Republic of Croatia assumes payment obligations according to the compensation requirements of workers suffering from occupational illness due to asbestos exposure. It means asbestos only. I said until '90. It was all social property, state property, whatever we call it. It's time for this commitment to be taken over by the state today 2007. This is a social one, this is a responsible move. Of course we need to talk about the coefficients, that we need to talk about the amount of the fee itself. Of course 20 million kunas won't be enough money. In the Republic of Croatia since '91. By 2003 482 cases were processed on behalf of the damage claims for these diseases caused or caused by asbestos. The damage suffered to date is 5.8 million kuna or somewhere only 12 thousand kuna at the request or by the applicant of that request. This problem means asbestos, these diseases of cancer, etc., which, caused by asbestos, is not a problem again I will only say "Salonita" down from Vranjica near Split. It is also the problem of Zagreb, it is also a pulse problem. 12 damage claims so far were received by the Municipal Court in Pula, and the compensation for damage in one case was 15 thousand 143 kuna. In one case there was an interruption of the procedure, in one case there was a settlement with an amount of 13 thousand kuna. 9 cases in Pula remain unsolved and litigation proceedings are ongoing, and the total amount due to the damages caused by asbestos is one million kunas. In all cases, the defendant is "Olinik d.d." from Pula. I repeat again because in that shipyard as well as in other parts of the ship's individual systems, asbestos has been implanted. Such demands were seen in Zagreb, probably somewhere else in Croatia. But once again I'm going to say, those 12 or 15 thousand kunas are minimal amounts, I'm not going to say miserable even though I could use that expression and maybe just some psychological satisfaction to those people but certainly not a real material fee. So once again, these amounts that are secured under this law are 20 million kunas, in no way enough for those who are in this way ill. This may be some moral satisfaction to these people, but really these people need to be helped with concrete material amounts because sometimes the amount of 12 or 15 thousand kuna is almost "insulting common sense" and underestimating this serious disease that our fellow citizens are exposed to. I'll say it one more time. We will surely support all these legal proposals. We better have this compensation law where 20 million kunas are provided in the budget than we don't have any, because the state definitely took the obligation to pay for the compensation of workers suffering from these professional diseases due to asbestos and thus admitted that its ancestors in these social or state enterprises simply did not care for the workers of those same people caused enormous material, primarily health damage and state and material damage. With these words once again, we will vote in favour of the laws under regular numbers 724, 725, 726, and I call on the competent ministry to take pensions, as soon as possible before these demands by our fellow citizens, to receive certain pension bodies and to make these people go as soon as possible before compensation on this basis. That's what these people deserve, and that right needs to be made possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93708	Thank you. HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Kyo Butan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93709	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! At the HDZ Club, we discussed these drafts of the law, and we want to stress immediately that we will support all these proposals of the law. The name asbestos comes from the Greek word asbestos, which means indigestion. Well, what was insecure was the boredom of the fire they were running away from here all the way to this day. This white asbestos is actually so reluctant that it is only spread by strong acids, strong lubes, and temperatures above 600 degrees Fahrenheit [600 ° C]. This and such asbestos was deposited in the respiratory tract, in the lungs of those who worked with him. So, asbestos is a professional, progressive, chronic disease that is classified under the Law on the List of Professional Diseases under Pneumoconiosis. They got sick, which is very important to point out for many years without subjective symptoms. This asbestos has become an irreplaceable material in the production of more than 3,000 500 products due to its cheapness as raw materials of low conductivity of sound, heat and electricity. Based on the fact that asbestos is a progressive disease and often results in death, here is a solution to the problem of the diagnosis of treatment and therefore to the damages of workers who are suffering from asbestos disease. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has taken over from 1 January 2002 the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, including a regulation relating to the marketing or use of a product containing asbestos. It is noted, I am glad to hear that other clubs are positively determined according to these proposals of the law but it is noteworthy that all these draft laws have the support of the Croatian Union Association, most of the associations and a positive opinion on the economic social council. This law also defines who has the right to cash compensation. All those who could not be charged from the employer, all those who were not, who were in a bankruptcy that was open over the employer, and all those who could not be charged even by judgment. The Republic of Croatia undertakes payment under the compensation requirements of workers suffering from occupational diseases due to asbestos exposure. The proposed law lays down professional diseases for which the worker is entitled to cash compensation as well as the coefficients of the same and the basis for determining the value of the coefficients. It will be necessary to provide for the implementation of this proposal for a law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos in 2008 of 20 million kuna. The proposal for a law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos estimates that the funds needed in 2008 will amount to around 5 million kuna. The same bill defines the professional exposure of asbestos workers and in terms of this law of professional disease caused by asbestos. Under the professional exposure to asbestos is considered direct and indirect exposure to asbestos, the process of determining and recognising a professional disease caused by asbestos is arranged. And who's doing it? It is implemented by the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work in accordance with the Law on Health Insurance of Health Care at Work. Of course, this is followed by certain criteria defined by the rules and I believe in the good part of the cases we have positive experiences of our neighbours as they have done, mainly the Slovenian model and there has also come out in a certain way looking for associations of asbestos patients where actually biopsy as a criterion has been avoided in all those cases where it is possible to prove in a different way this severe disease. As far as the proposal for a law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers exposed to asbestos, we can say that until 1993, the maximum allowable concentration of asbestos was significantly higher than that concentration in the Western European and other countries. In 1993, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on maximum levels of harmful substances, which determines the height of maximum concentration. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considered the same problem in 2003, but only there, in fact, on 14 February 2006, the minister brings it, the said ministry makes a bill of law and adopts the Chemical Act, which lays down a list of dangerous medicines that are prohibited or restricted, and then completely prohibits the placing on the market or use of asbestos fibers as well as products containing these fibres. Starting from that list and in order to protect workers who have been professionally exposed to asbestos during their work, it is proposed to adopt legislation on conditions for obtaining the right to retirement of all those who have been professionally exposed to asbestos. This law will implement the care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos in the Republic of Croatia during their work in the workplace. In this regard, given the consequences caused by asbestos on the working capacity of those who are with it in relation to the achievement of pensions under favourable conditions, it may be considered appropriate to measure under the given circumstances. This law will implement the care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos in the Republic of Croatia during their work in the workplace. It is estimated that expenditure in 2008 would amount to over 7.5 million kuna, in 2009. Eight million, 2010. Eight million and four hundred thousand kuna. We believe in the HDZ Club that this proposal made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia another important step in relation to all that has been made in this area so far, and that all suffer from the application of these laws, which is both a social and a responsible move by this Government, will receive adequate moral satisfaction in a given time and given conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93710	Thank you. PGS, SBH and IMF representatives' club, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93711	Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us, on behalf of the regional party club, very briefly express our support for the adoption of the proposed laws and this support in the content of the law as well as in the urgency of the procedure. So we support the adoption of laws 724, 725 and 726 that regulate the entire area, as a result of the exposure of a certain number of people in this country to the toxic effects of asbestos. But if that was the only reason I called to say a few words, then I'd probably skip it. Namely, I felt human and professional duty to express solidarity with these people knowing of a number of cases with serious and severe consequences of asbestos exposure at the Rijeka shipyard "May 3rd". And remembering many years ago in vain the struggles of a few people who tried to protect themselves and exercise certain rights based on the fact that they were neither guilty nor debtor. I put an emphasis on this "not guilty or indemnity" because we know that unfortunately in human pathology is a lot of diseases for which individuals do because of their ignorance, which because of their unpreparedness to behave in an appropriate way objectively themselves bear responsibility for the parts or entire course of their disease. In this case, a sequence of asbestos particles, asbestos, and ultimately cancer are something that's just come out in itself. These people have absolutely no responsibility. I hope that the resources provided for will be sufficient but the adoption of the law guarantees that this justice will be done to these people. And I can only say in the end that it should have been brought long ago and for this reason we absolutely think it was good and that it was time and place to bring it and to effectively apply the laws because it is ultimately not about large numbers of people and therefore that justice comes selectively for a narrow smaller group of people and therefore it needs to be done. And of course, support for the total package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93712	Thank you. An individual debate. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93713	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Well, here I am, as a specialist in medical work, I certainly support these three laws which, in general, I think, solve the issue of workers who were, who were or had worked, were professionally exposed to asbestos. So their health supervision, acquisition and the right to retirement under more favourable conditions and compensation. According to our but also Croatian, European and Croatian laws, the employer is responsible for the safety of the workplace and is certainly tasked with providing him with a job without harm to the health of workers. And in jobs with increased risks, the health of workers needs to be constantly monitored in view of the greater risk of developing work-related diseases as well as professional diseases. The European Union has limited the use and transport of asbestos-containing products by its legislation and here in the Republic we have gone further. In the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Chemicals, National Journal 150/05, Minister of Health and Social Care, with the consent of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, has also adopted a list of dangerous chemicals whose traffic is prohibited or restricted. And so, according to that list of 14 February 2006, it is completely prohibited to place on the market or use asbestos fibres as well as products containing these fibres. In the area of Croatia, the application of asbestos technology dates back to the 20th century. And here, at first glance, you might think it's just a shipbuilding problem, but we have to say that construction is very much represented by this problem. There are asbestos-cemental plates, then covers various and pipes. Then asbestos fabric. Then metallurgical products are also represented in the automotive industry, the rail vehicles industry, asbestos brake linings. Well, there were several workers who came in for a systematic examination as exposed asbestos. Azbest is known for its adverse effect on health by causing chronic progressive diseases, changes in the pleura and changes in asbestos or pneumocroniosis. Then malignant lung disease and mesothelioma. In the period from 1990 to 2005, the number of professional diseases caused by asbestos in Croatia is 442 of which means 304 asbestos and lung cancer in one case, mesothelioma in 3 cases, which does not mean that there were no more, but the question of whether there was a progressive flow and should be monitored after 10, 20, 30 and 40 years may have been another case, but which has not been associated with asbestos since then. According to the proposal for a law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally-exposed asbestos with the final proposal of the law, Article 3 states that the professional exposure of asbestos workers is to include both indirect and direct exposure to asbestos during the production, use, storage and decommissioning of facilities and products containing asbestos or asbestos products. This means one wide range of these exposure options either indirect or direct. And professional exposure under this law is also occasional exposure to asbestos if the concentration has exceeded the maximum concentration allowed. We saw the minister in his presentation say how much it is, that maximum allowed concentration reduced... In 1992. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then preventive examinations, diagnostics as well as monitoring the health status of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos and workers who have been diagnosed with a professional disease caused by asbestos are followed by a specialist in medicine work. And it is carried out over a period of up to 40 years because we have seen, as it has been pointed out, that the consequences can be to that product. So it's 40 years after the professional exposure of asbestos workers has stopped, regardless of whether a professional disease has been diagnosed or has only been exposed. The means to carry out these preventive and regular health examinations of diagnostics and treatments shall be provided by means of contributing to health protection at work. I would once again go back to that law, it is seen that this really is the Ministry and this government taking care of the protection of health at work because this Labour Health Protection Act has really solved all of those, many important issues and many painful issues that the minister has raised in his presentation as if workers had to pay themselves to prove their suspicion of a professional disease. And not to say that those who, where they are, who have remained so that the company went into bankruptcy or for whatever reason never had the opportunity of any, any of their rights to accomplish. I would now refer to this second draft law on conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with the final same bill. That during the period, workers who have been professionally exposed to asbestos directly or indirectly exercise the right to an old age pension under more favourable conditions under mandatory pension insurance under this generation solidarity. And that they are covered means workers with 50 years of age living men and 45 years of age. And with a 25-year job experience on condition... 10 years working on jobs that were directly exposed, professionally exposed to asbestos. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have another category, 53 years old and 48 years old for women but 30 years of exposure in, with an employer who used asbestos in production. That's it. who were indirectly exposed to asbestos. Now here, in practice, there may be some difficulty in what these are, which were the productions where there was an indirect exposure to asbestos. The amount of pension would be determined as if it were 40 years of retirement, and it is good that, if that right means it does not go out of date unless the worker immediately applies for recognition of that right, that it can do so later on, what is really important. And in the end, we may now have the short-term and most significant law. It is the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos with a final re-proposal of the law. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the data available between 1991 and 2003, 482 cases have been processed. Namely damaged claims due to a professional disease caused by asbestos. And in order to fully settle the issue of the right to cash compensation for workers who have proven work at the workplace in which they were exposed to asbestos because of the technological process and who have established and recognised a professional disease. This is important to say that a recognised and professional disease caused by asbestos is proposed under the proposed law. I find it particularly important here that the law provides for the right to cash compensation for workers who could not be charged by the employer for any reason of any bankruptcy or any other reason, who could not collect their claims that they would have the right to compensation. I think it's really guaranteed here's one security and those workers who may be the most damaged because they can't, they couldn't collect their claims. It is also important that this right does not become the same, that it is practically inherited, because the right to apply has been given to persons who have been ordered by a judicial authority to receive compensation as well as persons who are heirs. So it's inherited, people who've been granted the right to cash compensation that's been paid off but who have not been paid for the death of the person whose right is recognised. That's, uh, indemnity. We see that they will decide a commission that is indeed relevant in which everyone, the competent institutions of the Ministry of Health, Economy, Finance, Justice, representatives of the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine, the Croatian Institute for Health Protection at Work, as well as two representatives of the trade union and representatives of the Association of Professional Diseases caused by asbestos. The Republic of Croatia also took the obligation to pay off on damages, which requires 20 million kuna in 2008. And let me get this straight. These three laws address the issue of workers who have been professionally or have been exposed to asbestos in the workplace. So, their medical supervision, the right to retirement, and compensation. So here I support the adoption of these laws, and I just have to stay in debt in previous discussions to read one message and now I'm going to do it now because this is one example of how to care for the protection of workers' health. But when we discussed amending the Law on Social Welfare and the recognition of the status of carers, then I got this message. Dr. Lelic, please convey your support to Minister Ljubic, because everything he said is right and we think we've never been better. A greeting from one children's association with special needs and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93714	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Kyo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93715	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, my colleague only asked me to say two more things and also to pass on one thank you, and she thanked the Association of Asbestos from the “Salonite” factory in Vranjica. They are called asbestos dibbles, which thank all those who have worked on the proposed proposals of the law and for the first time opened and solved this very important area. By the way, a colleague mentioned that it was also a deadly disease and we have data from the reference centre for asbestos in Split, where they say by one study of as many as 90 cases of lung cancer in their research 86 were related, 86 were professionally exposed to asbestos. I believe that in this way too many “Salonita” Vranjic workers who have lived for years in a country that has been declaring since '45. continue that man is their greatest treasure in fact to get now in the Republic of Croatia a great moral satisfaction with this important social step of the Croatian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93716	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93717	And here I am with my colleague completely agreeing. He's from the area where asbestos is the highest problem this expressed, and I say here even in County in some plants workers are exposed to asbestos and on this issue are being followed and I should, I should like to point out once again that such exposure means there's a lot in construction and I actually express one and fear. Who knows where everything has asbestos, where we're all surrounded and how exposed we are and so it's good to have this ban on more products than asbestos and the use of asbestos, and certainly this bill of law says from the Health Protection Act at work one really important step in protecting workers' health.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93718	Thank you. Final review by Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93719	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I appreciate everyone's support for these laws, but I don't have anything else left to do but promise you that this government will continue to deal with these problems. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93720	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on these three proposals, the final draft laws. Final proposal for a law amending the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? Unanimity with 97 votes accepted by the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93764	We accept these all... Complementary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93765	What additions and amendments do you have to the amendments of the Legislative Committee? Do you accept or not? On technical, amending and supplementing the Act on technical requirements for products and assessment of consent. There are ten amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93766	Yeah, yeah. We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93767	You accept those amendments. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote! The result? With 92 votes for and 3 abstentions. The law was passed as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 613; The Proposer of the Law is the Government. Second reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government and the Committee on European Integration. State Secretary. Yes, it would be good to have a united debate with the - Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007. – 2008; Along with this Final Proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. Consent? Thank you. Both, the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93769	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Consumer protection is the fundamental gain of a civil and democratic society and as such in the function of ensuring the quality of life of all citizens. In line with the rapid changes that are taking place today in the market, the legal framework for consumer protection should be constantly upgraded in order to achieve a high and better level of consumer protection. We also need to know that there are newer, more modern forms of business to be regulated on a daily basis, all in order to ensure that consumers feel safe and protected on the market, i.e. that they are protected from their basic rights in the purchase of products and services and other forms of acquisition of products and services on the market, and that this protection is in line with the emerging market conditions. In the drafting of this law, the obligation made by the Republic of Croatia during the negotiation procedure for the accession of the European Union to comply with legislation in this area was taken into account. This is primarily about three directives which have not been implemented so far in national legislation, which is governed by this law and which are the following Directives. The provisions of the Directive relating to distance sales to consumers of financial services, provisions of the Directive on court orders for the protection of consumer interests, and provisions of the Directive relating to unfair commercial activities of traders towards consumers. The next important reason for the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act is to further bring national legislation into line with the 7th Directive. These directives are already part of existing Croatian legislation, but some legal gaps have been established in that part, which were necessary to regulate and, as is the case with the Consumer Loans Directive, the Price Highlighting Directive, and the Remote Sales Directive. The Croatian Parliament considered the proposal for a new Consumer Protection Act in its first reading at its 24th session held on 26 January 2007 and as regards the text of the draft law which was first read in this text, certain amendments were made as a consequence of respecting the observations made during the debates on the parliamentary committees. Therefore, in the text of the final draft law, the Proposer has made improvements in the section relating to the nomotechnical regulation of legal expressions, and in order to better understand and implement the provisions of this law. Furthermore, compared to the applicable Consumer Protection Act, better regulated individual provisions of the law are better and easier to apply the law and, for example, the applicable law provides that the price must be highlighted on each product, i.e. packaging and at the sales site of the product, which in practice, i.e. the law enforcement itself causes certain difficulties. These difficulties are primarily related to price emphasis on certain product types such as frozen products, then bakery products and other small products. The new law requires the trader to make the price clear, visible and legible on the product, i.e. packaging or at the point of sale. Such a solution obliges the trader to highlight the price in such a way as not to damage the product, but given the nature of the product it may be either on the product or on the packaging or on the point of sale. Furthermore, as regards the declaration of a provision of the applicable Consumer Protection Act, following the adoption of the Food Law and of certain other specific regulations, they remained out of line with those rules and thus the provisions of the applicable Consumer Protection Act were excessive compared to the later adopted specific regulations. In particular, I would like to stress that the new Consumer Protection Act also introduces a new term for a declaration called the product notice in the new law. This is how we align ourselves with the term used by EU legislation. The provisions of the new law also provide for the basic information which must contain the product notice with the basic data and, depending on the type of product, the product information must also be provided with specific rules. The adoption of this law will also make consumers better protected when using public services, i.e. this law requires that the consumer who challenges the account of the public service provider cannot suspend the provision of services until the finalisation of the court proceedings if all subsequent uncontested accounts are properly settled. In addition, the novelty is that public service claims as well as all household costs paid at fixed monthly or quarterly amounts become obsolete for one year. This law obliges traders to enable consumers to submit written objections either in the sales space or in the mail, fax device or e-mail in such a way as to enable the consumer to respond to the complaints received no later than 15 days from the date of the complaint received. In order to make consumer protection more effective, the role and competence of the State Inspectorate and the competent inspectors of the ministries in the control of the implementation of these provisions have been strengthened and penalties have been increased in the event of an infringement. The new Consumer Protection Act provides that consumer disputes are being settled by honor courts and centres for the peace of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Centre for the Peace of the Croatian Employers Association. Disputes would be settled in accordance with the procedures that those courts are currently conducting, but with the obligation to represent themselves in special councils other than independent legal experts and representatives of traders and consumers. The costs of these disputes will be financed from the state budget. This will encourage alternative dispute resolution between traders and consumers, with a view to discharging regular courts and more effective consumer protection. It is also news that the Government of the Republic of Croatia establishes and appoints a national consumer protection council as one of the important consumers who have greater power by this law. Each year, the Council submits a report on its work to the government with a view to taking even better account of how consumer protection is raised to an even higher level. Although the consumer protection system is relatively short in the Republic of Croatia compared to the Member States of the European Union in this area over the past three years, much has been done. The activities carried out are seen through the adoption of a national consumer protection programme for 2005 and 2006, we will now also have the adoption of a new national programme for 2007 and 2008, four consumer protection counselling centres have been established in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Pula, and a significant increase in cooperation with consumer protection associations and continued implementation of educational projects for consumer protection. The state budget allocated financial resources so that all these activities can be implemented uninterruptedly with a view to ensuring high consumer protection. In 2006, 3 million 969 thousand kuna were allocated from the budget for these purposes, while 3 million 363,000 kuna were allocated in 2007, and 5 million 363,000 and 900 kuna were scheduled for 2008. Finally, I would like to say that we firmly believe that the Republic of Croatia will establish a high level and consumer protection system through its current and future planned activities, which will bring close to the high standards of consumer protection as consumers in the countries of the European Union, and we propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law. I'll just say one more thing about the 2007/2008 National Consumer Protection Programme. Because it's a united topic. The national programme shall develop concrete consumer protection policies in certain areas for a period of two years so that defined activities can be achieved in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Economy for the implementation of this national programme for 2007. 3 million 363,000 kuna, and for 2008. 3 million 850 grand and 900 kuna. The National Consumer Protection Programme 2007/2008 the need to further strengthen the level of consumer protection in the following priority areas, public services, health services, food safety and food quality, product safety, education, information, trade, financial services, insurance services and banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering, and in the area of real estate use has been demonstrated. In particular, I stress that in the coming period, a large part of the activities will concern increasing the level of consumer knowledge and information about their rights, as well as promoting the development and work of consumer protection associations. One of the main objectives of this national programme is to further institutional and administrative strengthening of the consultation centre and their working and technological integration. In this national programme, the emphasis is placed on the education of the entire public on the rights, obligations and protection of consumers with a view to the development of consumer morality. Education will be conducted at several levels in schools, among educational workers, organisation of seminars and through the media. In order to improve consumer protection, it is necessary to further strengthen market surveillance inspection services, especially in public-service companies. The State Inspectorate plans to establish a contact point for the exchange of information on dangerous products... and the establishment of a laboratory where the safety and quality of certain products would be examined. The implementation of the CARDS 2004 project will also begin in 2007, further strengthening capacity in the area of consumer protection. Furthermore, consumer notification of one of the fundamental rights of consumer protection will be carried out in different ways such as the issue of information material for consumers, professional magazines, information given on Internet portals. In order to ensure the effective information of all stakeholders in the consumer protection system in the coming period, full establishment of a central information system will take place to allow the rapid flow of information on frequent consumer rights violations and timely action by competent market surveillance authorities to remove them. As regards the areas of public services, the competent ministries and institutions will carry out a number of activities aimed at creating appropriate conditions for competition in the field of these services. National legislation will be harmonised with European Union rules on public service activities, passenger transport, telecommunications and postal transport, and in the section relating to access, mode of use, delivery, quality, accounting and public service charges. In advance, the methods of legal protection of public service users in the case of their justified advertising in the manner of use, quality and method of accounting and payment of services will also be used. In the area of food safety and food quality, a Croatian strategy in the area of food safety will be developed, with the aim of also timely and accurate consumer information in the field of health and food quality control. I would also like to say that over the next two years, the emphasis will be on the further development of the system outside the judicial settlement of disputes that I already mentioned when I was talking about the previous law. The success of the implementation of this National Programme will depend primarily on the readiness of all key consumers to carry out their tasks and to comply with those deadlines. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the basic objective that we want to achieve is a modern and developed social economy where consumers feel protected, secure and satisfied, so we propose that the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007-2008 be adopted as a document that will allow this objective to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93770	Thank you. The committees. Committee on Economic, Development and Reconstruction, Rules of Procedure, Constitution, local, regional, European integration. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93771	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Calm your nerves. I just started speaking to my colleagues at HDZ. If you have noticed respected colleagues and colleagues, Minister Vukelic has been missing for several months when the laws from his portfolio. It kind of matches "Brodosplete" then. I was expecting at least today when this Bill proposal is about the best grades in the interpretation and debate that has been present so far, and I must say that for me and us at the Croatian People's Party club, this bill is a great disappointment. We believe that it does not bring but no progress in favour of consumers and that the worst solutions that have been in the current law have remained, and that the only praise is given to the promoters in that they have not decided to change and supplement, but to the new text of the law for the sake of readability, easier compliance not only in the debate, but also after the adoption of the law when it is published in the "National Journal" and I think it would be a good practice and other government resolutions that, after two amendments and supplementing the third time, they are not going to change and supplement, but a new text of the law. Why do I think it is a bad law that will not bring new, useful or smart to consumers in Croatia? For example, the first, obligation of the trader in Article 5 was first prescribed that the trader must replace the product due to the lack. In addition, the same Article provides that the trader is obliged to fix the invalid product within the guaranteed time limit. What is the difference between a product that has a deficiency and which is incorrect? What is a missing product, and what is an invalid product? Is the washing machine without a condenser a missing product or an invalid product? In the light of the concepts at the outset of the law, it is not clear what kind of a product has a deficiency, and what it is that is wrong. And normally in Croatia both today and after this Law, because the promoters have refused to listen to what they have been told for two years. Any failure, any deficiency, any error any product has interpreted in accordance with points 6 of Article 5, not points 2 of Article 5 of the Law, and does not wish to replace the product, but sends the customer to the repairer, and the essence of the customer's right to obtain a new product without defect is one of the most important consumer rights. And so long as the bill and the law itself will not define what a product with a shortage means, and the wrong product traders will abuse such a provision of the law. Furthermore, the law provides for the obligation of the trader to issue an account for each service with a higher value than 500 kuna. Bigger than 500 kuna and an estimate. Is it possible to control and sanction this provision? Either the amount of 500 kuna is too low or is it referring to a special type of service? Each trader is obliged to enable the buyer to submit written objections, it states in Article 8 and the trader is obliged to keep records of the objection. There's a book of complaints in trade and tourism. In healthcare, there is a book of appeals that must be numbered and kept to prevent manipulation. Whether the trader must have a book of appeals or complaints received on a simple list of unnumbered papers and how he who oversees the application of this Act will know whether the trader has kept and kept all the complaints or complaints of the customers he has received. Whether the promoter meant the book of appeals or this formulation was deliberately left under the pressure of the lobby of Croatian merchants, or foreign traders in Croatia, to enable the use of such unclear terms to avoid the law of prescribed obligations. Furthermore, the fourth example. The law stipulates the trader's obligation to have a clearly visible and legible high price. I repeat the clearly visible and legible price, but the law doesn't say where. Does the price of the product have to be on the product, on the shelf, under the shelf, with the barcod, without the barcod, bound, glued? Do you or must I remind you how many times in stores it happens that prices are put on the shelves a little bit cut off from the product. And especially if there is traffic on the shelf, so you are not sure whether the price put below or above a product refers to there or this adjacent product. Why, then, has the Government of the Republic of Croatia succumbed to the pressure of a commercial lobby to not oblige them that the price must be on the product? And especially because we have witnessed together often that the price on the shelf and the price on the cashier's account that he recognizes at least is not the same. It's just not the same. This provision of Article 9 is a discount of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in front of a commercial lobby, which thus reduces jobs, the number of employees and reduces its costs so that no price should be applied to each product in shops. ... It reduces the price of products in the mirage, not in the Croatian counterpart dear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It reduces the price of those who earn extra profits but not for the benefit of consumers, a respected colleague. And the price of the product, Europe is the price on the product and not on the shelves. The trader must stress the price so as not to damage the product, as set out in the proposal for a law of Article 9, paragraph 9. But it doesn't say that the trader can't stick the price to the declaration. And hide the term of use, for example, or the land of origin. It does not say that the declaration must not be damaged by price. That's what we warned you the last time. A well-intentioned suggestion just from experience in Slovenia, Austria and Germany. Article 11 provides that the buyer paid the contracted service on the day the trader receives the money. Sometimes the buyer sent the money. Why? So, which is why we're going to make a provision that the time of payment is not when the buyer paid in, say, the ZAP or the bank, but when that money sat down at the expense of the seller, the merchant. Friday at 1:00 p.m. and payment at 2:00 p.m., that's why it's going to be booked on Monday and not Friday. I guess you all know that. Article 13 provides for the obligation of the trader to make the customer available guarantee, technical guidance, instructions for conclusion, instructions for use, list of authorised repairers, warning of possible dangers when using clearly visible, readable in Croatian and Latin letters. But only on condition that the manufacturer gave it. I don't know if this further debate is groundless when the government's representatives don't listen to objections, but they're having bilateral talks with fellow MPs, and I don't see whether it's really necessary for us to work this way? So why do we go with the provision that the trader is obliged to give the customer instructions for use or a guarantee sheet or a danger possible explosion only if the seller has secured it? So why is it allowed to place on the market a product whose manufacturer has not provided the instructions for use or the danger of possible accidents, explosions, poisoning, anything? There is no obligation on the trader if the manufacturer, as stated in Article 13(1), did not provide for it. Article 16 prohibits leaving advertising messages and materials in or on mailboxes and on or outside the consumer's home door if such a prohibition is clearly written on them. Therefore, Croatian consumers must order in private label printing shops to ban harassment and terror for advertisers. Says in or out, on or outside the front door. What about the entrances to the yard? How many tons of paper and garbage in the stairs, roads and our streets, city neighborhoods we have because again and by new law you allow terror of trade chains that simply put unaccompanied advertising messages in bars between fences, pillars on the fence, on the first step because they do not break the law because they did not put it on the door or the front door, but on the first step. Or simply passing through the street throw you in the yard. Why is it that the government finally does not accept the provision that the disposal of advertising material is possible only if there is an explicit authorisation? So if a retailer or a merchant wants to have such communication with consumers, he will print his stickers allowed for the disposal of advertising material which each of us will stick to a mailbox or to the front door and will be allowed to delay. And you keep saying that we have to buy stickers and let them give us their commercials. Whose lobby was this again affected by the fact that the rule of law remains the same? And ask the citizens what they think about it? And after this terror where in every newspaper you have half a kilo of advertising material and yet at home you are welcomed by half a kilo of terrorism of paper advertising material and you insist that such a provision be continued... What is it, what is the interest of the government and ours in the Parliament, not to go with the provision that the consumer has the right to allow, not to have to worry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prohibit every day in the house, in the mailbox, on the stairs, in the locked door, windows or anywhere else, advertising messages are placed. Article 18.2. all information from the product notice must be true, clear, visible, legible, written in Croatian and Latin. Such a provision exists in the existing law. And you know the consequences. This is your first example of how this provision of the law in Croatia is respected. These are two products purchased today in Zagreb, and I will give Mrs. Secretary of State the bill not to think this is smuggled because it is an import item. And here's the product declaration. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, in twelve languages on this part. BSC language used for Croatia. BSC.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93772	What's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93773	Bosnian-Serbian-Croatian, it is the one already used in Bruxeless in the European Union. BSC, it's a language shortcut. Every one of you who reads me a declaration of this product bought in Mark's square today honors your choice. This is your second example. Here is the same declaration in Croatian. Purple packaging, font 4. Yesterday I heard that Croatian consumers are guilty if they bought the toothpaste that was forged in China because we do not read the product declarations and we are lazy, we are in a hurry, irresponsible consumers and who is to blame if there may be a Chinese counterfeit on the Croatian market because neither the Consumer Protection Council nor any consumer protection association reacted in Croatia yesterday. Please, who can read this? Who is this meant for? Who's making fun of who? This provision remains in force under this new law. There are countries in Europe that have prescribed that the declaration cannot be less than 12 fonts. That's what we talked about during last year's debate on amendments and our bill. Proposers keep coming with the same older solutions. Guess who's behind that pressure? Whose interest is it that these products are on Croatian shelves? ... He's a colleague of Markovanovic's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93774	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93775	Comrade Markovanovic, here I invite you to read this and I will give this to the secretary of state for the start, and I can also pay my respects because they are probably... Tasty but nobody understands what's in here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93776	Comrade Lesar, let me try and read it first for the bet on that one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93777	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93778	Thank you very much. While I read until then the correction of the incorrect quote by the respected representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93779	Let me just prevent this attempt at corruption out there. Mr. President, let me just interrupt this attempt to corrupt the CNS there and correct this allegation. Namely, a colleague claims that the price can be pasted through a declaration which is not true because it says: "It is prescribed that the product notice must be easily visible, legible, indelible and not covered with any other text or image material.". Therefore, the declaration must remain clean and no price can go beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93780	The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93781	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Lesar. I have to make a special point. In fact, when we walk around this "Beautiful Ours" and look at what the department houses look like, then we see that they are magnificent, that they are huge, and that our dear European tourists are also surprised because in many countries there are no such large shops in Europe. Therefore, we note, in fact, that Europe and not only Europe have turned to our consumer, and we normally have to protect this consumer because it is clear that everyone is trying to sell as expensive as possible for profit, as much as possible and that the consumer pays as much as possible. In fact, we will best protect consumers by creating a clear balance between the interests of economic operators and consumers on the market because what we just said, here and a colleague, we need to protect consumers but we clearly need to think about manufacturers and actually one balance here would be the happiest solution. I mean, I've got to get back to this exposure a little bit before. Says the product can't be replaced, but needs to be serviced immediately. Somehow in recent years of experience, I can say that when we buy a product that even in the store says that we should not immediately confirm the warranty but try the product, so if the product is not good to return it or come back after a while to confirm the warranty. So I think that this relationship is changing significantly and that it's good anyway. I have not also noticed that I have to say a little bit more under the influence of the one before that the price on the shelf and the price on the register is the same, but I am because, as it is in the bill of law, that every customer can in particular in large or one place in a small shop show what the price of the product is. I remember a long time ago in Germany when we were watching, then he tells you I don't know from 10 marks, 15 marks and so on, and when you pick something, it's not 10 or 15, but it's much more. But everywhere there was a device where you could read, and that's good, and it's extremely necessary and it really needs to be insisted on it. In fact, the alignment of this was also with three directives that have not been implemented so far in national legislation. And what is important here from these three directives, other than remote financial services, is about directives in court orders and what is most important about unfair business activities of traders towards consumers. It's clear that somehow people remain in the ear traders are unfair, traders want to fool us, etc. It's good to make it legal, but let's not generalize it. There are really very many people who work very honestly and very transparently and do not want to cover up the product. But here, I agree with my colleague, there's a whole series of products that they want to sell in a variety of ways without being seen. There is also a need to insist on the inspectorate. Then, here's the law predicting the price must be equivalent to every product or applicable law on packaging and clearly come into question products that are almost impossible to place, frozen products, baker's products, small tiny bits of candy where it's very difficult to leave a declaration and price and, let's say, we can allow the price to be really highlighted on the shelf. But what is prescribed to make the price clear, visible and legible, therefore on the product or packaging or at the point of sale. I don't want to now because there's a lot of stuff about products, food and stuff. Here, the new name is that I support that, instead of the declaration, he writes a product notice. I said she had to be a little earlier. Here the novelty is quite important which will go as far as local self-government is concerned, which is that the claim for public services as well as for all household costs paid to permanent, monthly or quarterly amounts of antiquities for one year. So that's where it's really going to be really up-to-date because otherwise, obsolescence is going to eat a lot of money. Furthermore, so far, the consumer could seek only by judicial means, which was a long-term process for consumers to exercise their rights, while so far I can say otherwise, which is certainly good and what will reduce costs for customers. As for written objections here, the buyer, perhaps it should have been a little more detailed, the customer will really have to have documented that he has sent some kind of objection or via mail, fax devices or e-mails and so forth. Because if the trader doesn't answer him, then it will probably be necessary to prove within what time limit he sent it. It is very important, in fact, that when educating future customers, including current customers, because children are really customers to put all that into primary and secondary education school programmes, basic knowledge of obligations, rights, protecting consumers that will enable young people to understand consumer rights. It's a good thing that increased sentences, increased jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate. So, it is also indicated here that consumer disputes are being settled by honor courts and the Centres for the Peace of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Centre for the Peace of the Croatian Employers Association. I think it's already been about twenty percent, maybe the disputes are settled that way, and it's good that everything isn't going to trial, because we know that the courts are pretty much overworked. It should also be pointed out that four consumer protection counselling centres have been established in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Pula. It is likely that some new centres will be set up, and that the great help in all of this is also brought by the Consumers' Associations, which some of these are already quite loud and this is really good at all. A little bit of maybe I'll skip the whole series of things because time's kind of going, let's look back at the units of local self-government. What do they have to do with consumers? They've got a lot of stuff. Therefore, they supply drinking water, draining, waste water treatment, transport of passengers in public transport, maintenance of cleanliness, disposal of municipal waste, maintenance of public areas, maintenance... road, retail market, maintenance of cemetery, crematorium and transport of the deceased, provision of chimney services and public lighting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a whole series of ways and preconditions to get into disputes. But it should be said that local self-government units must ensure quality supply, quality performance of municipal activities. Let me just get back to the Consumer Protection Association for a little while longer. So, the Consumer Protection Associations are also doing their annual plans, they are still getting some funding, certain finances, and they point to irregularities all year round, which I think is good and which is a great help to the ministry. Here, I skipped a lot, but I think it's still in favor of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93782	The secretary of state has no intention. I'm closing the debate. And what Agent Lesar says is that I saw some of these cookies in some box earlier. It needs a telescope to see a declaration and a microscope and a telescope combined synergically. But that must be the inspection that they don't let it go. Oh, no? Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Secretary of State Damir Spanish. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. So it's the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93784	We accept the Legislative Committee, but not everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93785	Let's do it in a row. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93786	Article 16 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93787	It's becoming an integral part. The other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93788	Article 16 is not accepted. Excuse me. Excuse me. Article 16 is not accepted. With an explanation. The modern way...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93789	A very brief explanation and concentrate on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93790	Because, ultimately, by accepting this proposal, everything would go well with the cost of the consumer. [[I didn't hear. The blacksmith.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93791	You didn't hear. So give it to my men, and what is it now? 2. Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93792	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93793	It's part of the law. 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93794	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93795	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93796	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93797	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93798	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93799	It's part of the law. Sixth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93800	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93801	It becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93802	With an explanation...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93803	He doesn't need an explanation, he doesn't have an explanation. There's no explanation...... No matter what phonograms, give yourselves... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93804	And we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93805	Wait a minute. Well... Amendment of MPs Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93806	It's accepted, but we've completed it, if I may read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93808	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act shall be added in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 which reads as follows: "Advertising in public ballots for 060 numbers shall be prohibited if, with each published ad for telephone services 060 is not published the name and full address of the trader and the fixed telephone number and the parent number of the company providing those services. Telecommunications companies providing services in the Republic of Croatia with 060 numbers are obliged to form a public telephone directory of these numbers with an indication of the service and its price, the name of the company that owns that number, the company's home number, full address and fixed phone number. And four. Without the availability of that information, traders shall not be able to provide service 060 numbers and to add a new subparagraph of 20 which reads in the infringement provisions in Article 145(1), paragraph 20, which reads as follows: "Do contrary to the provisions of Article 38(2), (3) and (4) of this Act."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93809	Proposer of amendment representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93810	I thank the government for accepting my amendment and supplementing it with criminal provisions because it has thus shown that it is not only protecting consumers but is on the verge of curbing the gray economy. And thank you for finally solving that 060 area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93811	Amendment accepted in modified form. I am voting on the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93812	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93813	Please vote! Please, let's get on with it! The result? 93 for, 3 abstentions, 2 against. With the majority passed the law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration, second reading of P.Z. No. 658; Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Pavle Maticic, deputy secretary of state at the Central State Administration's Office, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93831	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Administration System as part of the process of reforming the state administration and harmonising with the standards of the European Union proposes to continue the process of depoliticalisation and professionalisation in the state administration initiated by the adoption of the Law on State Servants. Namely, the State Officials Act stipulates that, on the day of the government's entry into office after the first subsequent parliamentary elections, the position of the ministry's secretary, its director of the ministries, the Deputy Secretary of Government, the Head of the Government's Office, the Deputy State Secretary, and the Deputy and Assistant Director of State Administration's Offices shall become the jobs of state officials, and the current positions of the Assistant Minister shall be abolished. In order to create legal assumptions for the implementation of the depolitical and professionalisation process, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Officials has already been amended, as well as the Law on the Procedure for the Handover of Authorities. The amendments to the Law on the State Administration System will fully establish a legal framework for the implementation of depoliticalisation in the State administration. In the meantime, since the first reading and this second reading on this law here in the Croatian Parliament, a round table was held on the subject of professionalisation and depoliticalisation in the state administration, which was attended by representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission, or a delegation of the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia, the OSCE, scientists and NGOs and other participants contained in the draft law amending and supplementing the laws of the first reading and observations and proposals made in the first reading. Afterwards, the Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration as you received it in materials. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93832	Thank you, I open up, committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93833	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. In my court, this law is unnecessary, and I'll tell you why. The election's in about four months. A new government will arrive, and as a first point, will be to amend the Law on Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministry. Every new government has a 100% right to do that. It will clearly change the description of the ministry's workaround. By a good old custom, a clear custom of indemnity, the non-determination will all State Secretarys remain in their positions as they have always remained until now. All of this will then lead to, let's say, being cynical for 3.4 new election cycles having maybe more secretary of state than being a replacement in a particular ministry. It all says the same way that the people are right when they say that owls or crows don't take their eyes out. That's it. that there's a deal. This law would make sense if Article 2 of this 6a reads: "Employees of the Ministry, Secretaries of the Ministry, Deputy Secretary of State of State of State, Deputys and Assistants of Directors and State Administrations and Head of the Office of State Administration in Units of the District and Regional Self-Government that they are state officials. And then it is said that the civil servants of Article 1 of this article appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of an earlier public tender in a manner and in the procedure of a certain Law on Civil Servants. So I said this would make sense if it were put behind that item that the State Secretarys had to give or make their mandates available. This way, as we now foresee these people, we keep them like lyrical bears. I guess they're protected from the cradle to the grave when they enter the state service instead of sharing the fate of those who set them up and then the elections were lost. That should be done for a few reasons. First, the new power, to free the new power of calling for a possible rematch. That the new power, that the new power with new people begin, say, this election, post-election cycle. That those appointed or elected now still share fate with those who have appointed them, and not that when they arrive, they are party people, and then when their losses suddenly become experts. Fourth or fifth, to feel what it means to go to elections, to fight for their ideas, for among other things their position, and finally to keep these people solid with that team that is in power and that Croatia is finally starting to solve the conversions. Someone will say it may be too radical to suggest, but no matter how radical it is, it's certainly fair. Let's take a look at this Croatian Privatisation Fund. Experts who came suddenly to the Croatian Privatisation Fund from 30, 40, or 50,000 kuna at 10 thousand kuna for 30, 40, or 50,000 kuna. Why? Now we know why. Every public firm in this country should be joined by a maestro but now in the image of a state's attorney. As regards the minority of Article 3, it literally states that members of national minorities have the right to represent themselves in central government bodies in proportion to their share in the total population of the Republic of Croatia and in the offices of the state administration in the units of the regional self-government in proportion to their share in the total population of the units of the regional (regional) self-government. I would also like to take this opportunity to express a protest for what the state administration in the local committee elections did in Pula, where it deleted minority members from the voter list for these local committees. It's an insolent provocation that makes someone have to go home without pay. Or it's even more serious, preparing for these next parliamentary elections. This clearly led me to the irregularity of the election for these local committees, but it also raises a fundamental political issue, which is the right so-called. a double vote for minorities because otherwise those parties most consistently represent their interests are punished. The fact that it was in Pula bordered by electoral irregularity and I think it will be taken into account by the competent ministry. It is clear that I am in favour of the representation of minorities in the bodies of the state administration. It's a clear civilizational fluid. Article 9 of this Law states that the State Secretary may have one or more deputies. Well, that's amazing. Croatia has so many state secretaries that probably no one even knows how many of them are at this point. They're in a better position than the MPs three times, and now they should get these assistants and assistants the secretary, the service, the car, the cards. All the things that say MPs don't have. Does anyone ask themselves how much it will cost, and in the light of this law it is said that the law will not cause additional resources. That it won't cause any extra funds if we have this provision that doesn't stand. This law costs money. Not that I know of. But, I mean, how much will it cost, but I'm afraid that law is a way to hire a few dozen more people in various government bodies right before the elections. And if something is clearly appreciated, then it's a job. Where are you going to do a better job than the Deputy Secretary of State? That's the least you and your family could do is give someone a voice. That's why we're making this bill by election. By election. And that before the election, and that is, after the election, everyone puts their mandates at their disposal. This Regulation shall enter The bodies of the State Administration shall be obliged to open a tender for the posts of directors in the ministry, secretaries of the Ministry, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State, and so on within the time limit of Article 151(3). Law on civil servants, National No. 92 of 2005. I'm not gonna remind you of those deadlines, but it says that in a way, one human fraud is being committed in state bodies. I do not even like the existence of the central state office referred to in Article 7. That I'm not quoting that article right now. It is a parallel ministry that Mr. Palaric obviously creates for himself, and in this case, Mr. Palaric is certainly not imagined, is not the Minister of Administration and Justice, or what he will already call himself, but will be responsible for neither less nor more than the Prime Minister. That's not how it works. Let him do the job for the Prime Minister, but he must be in charge of the Ministry of Administration first and foremost, if we need one of these central state bodies or this Central State Office. All in all, I think that this law is written that all existing secretary of state is being held in the saddle, to employ a few dozen more people a few months before the elections, maybe there will be hundreds because those services, secretaries, secretaries, what I know about who, drivers, etc. And that I'm not going to say in any way to be paralyzed, but at the very least, it's blocked, and that law is unacceptable for us at the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93834	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93835	Your Honor, Mr. President, Parliamentarian Cain has spoken a lie and said this is a state-run human fraud hiding behind this law. It's simply true, incorrect, because you didn't read that law well. That's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93836	Let's move on. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93837	Thank you, Mr. President, this pensioner thing has obviously been a thrill. Mr. Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The intention of this Law is to deprofessionalize and depolitize the administration. Great. It can't be better. It is a distant goal in the bright future that I fear regardless of the fact that this law is correct and well written we will not seem to be able to do so soon. What's going on? Assistant ministers stop being ministerial assistants and become directors of the body within the ministry, so they change the title, remain their full function and are elected by the government. How does the government choose them? Well, I'm public tendering as officials are already elected. But, well, the government chooses people who will not only spend tomorrow, but partly create the politics of that government. So he must choose them according to some political criteria. He must choose people who will want to, know, be able to implement the politics of this particular government in one professional way, the public tender will ensure that it is professional, but the politics of that government. He's got to agree with that policy, otherwise how he's gonna implement it. We have officials, especially civil servants, who choose the competition indefinitely. It's not exactly a world practice for top-ranking civil servants to choose indefinitely. The concept of labour flexibility includes both those senior officials and in the world in which we see ourselves in the good part of the countries these officials make contracts, are hired through competitions both outside and outside, or from the ministry, at this point it does not matter, but they make contracts at the time of the term of office. They are professionals, they come by professional criteria, but they will do political, good part of political work and should be inside while the mandate is running. Labour flexibility is crucial in this situation. Of course, that is how we acknowledge that these people are politically set up. They are if the government chooses them. The government doesn't choose them because they're beautiful, smart, good, but because they're going to listen and implement the government's program tomorrow. What is positive in such a situation is that these same people know how they come, know what they are coming for, and know for sure when their mandate will end. The question then is whether people who need for these and those political party reasons will come to such places as the situation is now. The Minister of Economy hired a removed mayor of the town of Karlovac as assistant minister without portfolio, assistant minister, because he had nothing to do with them, replaced him for his known reasons. That man's in on it. If employment continues in the same way, and will continue because this Law does not propose any concrete mechanisms to prevent it. These people will be in love not for four years, but for life. He's going to go inside, and he's going to stay for the rest of his life. After two, three election cycles will happen to us as happened in some companies owned by units of local self-government that only the directors work inside. That was the contract that a man made, staying at the firm no longer as a director, so second, then third, and fourth time and now only directors work inside. So one director cleans up after visitors to the sports hall, another conclusion, the third is now the current director, and the fourth is at the bar at the cafe and these are four directors employed by the company because they had nothing to do with them. They couldn't fire them. Are we going to have the directors of the department's office tomorrow to be in that position? One from this government, two from that government, a third from the previous authorities there. It's going to get in such a way that it just won't be possible. Easy for the ability to pay for it. This people are taught to pay for shit, so they'll pay for it. But it won't be possible to organize a job. You'll have so many people inside that they'll bother each other, there won't be enough tables, they'll pee on each other. The obvious solution is who chooses them, so whether they are chosen by the government or chosen by an independent official body. In that case, I could accept that they are really professionals and at what time they are chosen. If he chooses them during the term of office, I take off my hat, then they start a fine term, with the mandate gone. The question is, what happens to the heads of state administration's office at regional, county level? So far, these leaders have been responding to the state administration's office, so to Mr. Palaric. According to this proposal, they need to answer to the government. They are therefore the direct commissioners of the prime minister on the ground and carry out the will and decisions of the government on the ground. So not the law, not the law, but the will and the government's decisions are done by county. I don't know what to call it, but to the commissioners. As for the participation and participation of representatives of national minorities in the authorities, the definition is beautiful. The declaration is beautiful, providing for the right to participate in the authorities. No quota, no number, no way, no time is provided for them, but they are given a principled right. I believe that they are, they are not here, but I believe that they are grateful for that principled right, and they would certainly be much better off knowing that if there are 10% of the population in the city of 50 thousand, then one of the heads of state in that office will be a minority. It can do this, but it doesn't have to, so now how it happens. All in all the law written professionally, correctly with good intentions. I'm afraid without control mechanisms and without mechanisms to implement all of this will be nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93838	For PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93839	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the regional party club, I would like to say that this law is not in the sense of proposed individual solutions and how it is normised through articles, but through intensities we do not support. We did not support the intensities of this proposal even in our first reading, so we do not support it in the second reading. The reasons are very simple. We absolutely believe that each after parliamentary elections would have to have a basic elemental instrument to appoint top officials, directors, assistants and to appoint them to a mandate for a very simple reason. For the reason that the government through this apparatus needs to implement a policy for which it has gained confidence in the parliamentary elections, regardless of who the government is. Therefore, we absolutely believe that there should be no working relationship or contract at that level indefinitely but should be regulated by the Government for a certain period of time. Of course absolutely when it comes to professionals. I will add that I think that these people should be paid extremely well, so that both professional and professional people are motivated and through high incomes to go into short-term work with the government in terms of implementing a particular policy for which a particular bloc has been mandated. Since the intensities are completely different from this law we do not support this law and we think that through one, two or three mandates it will not do well in terms of the overall structure of the state administration and that sooner or later it will have to be resolved with some more radical laws that will resolve the accumulation of personnel that will come to the state administration on high positions either by friendly lines, either by family lines, or by party lines, and none of these three lines are good. So, given that we are against any form of fostering and that for clean jobs in the state administration we are high-level, high and well-paid but for a certain period of time we do not simply support the intensities of this law and that is our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93840	Thank you. Do you need a final review? There's no need. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it! We can vote! The result? 76 votes for, 7 abstentions, 20 against. Proposed law passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very short. By decision of the Croatian Parliament of 24 March 2006, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia took part in a peaceful, ten peacekeeping missions. With this decision, the Croatian Parliament bound the deadline until 31 December 2007. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament make a new decision approving the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in these ten missions with some amended number of members as the maximum number and adding to this list a further UN peacekeeping mission to the Golan High Force with up to three members. The reasons you would now not elaborate longer because they are listed in the written material you have received. I would also suggest that this decision should the Parliament take effect on 1 January 2008, so the next day following the expiry of the existing decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93844	Thank you. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Committee President-in-Office Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93845	Your Honor, Mr. President! At the 102nd session held on 11 July, the Committee discussed the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. And after the debate he held unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace missions in the text as proposed by the motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93846	Thank you. There are no others reported. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have one proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions where 102 votes are required. We here have a number of MPs who exceed 102 votes, so far I think they're at the last vote for those few days most of them. Can we go to that vote? Okay, then I'm voting on the proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 107 votes for, 4 abstentions and one against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93849	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can't believe after all those burning months when we had action around HINA or rather what was called Sanader's mockery of the Parliament. Now that there's no debate about HINA, I can't believe it. The fact is that we have a wonderful report in front of us and I'm glad we got the final report and we got HINA that works because this shows that HINA started working. I am particularly impressed by the fact that someone started to take care of the documentation collected by Vjesnik since 64 C.E. Okay, not in digital form, but in that form that contains 6 thousand collections of documents, 12 million individual records, where 100 thousand public figures were described, any foreign persons and the question was asked what would happen and I know that we are also here in the Parliament when we discussed the situation in Vjesnik that and then we asked what would happen to Vesnik's paper. I see you're starting to form a base and I'm glad. I hope by design that demand will grow. and you have stated here in your report that the demand for this construction declines and probably declines because it is not digital and what search and construction is difficult because it needs to walk around some 480 long meters of articles and articles cut. And that's why it's important to do that part. I see you planned here in the development of 2007 to 2012 to turn it all into a usable reading that you could sell to all those who are interested in this structure. 159 employees as far as I can see that you had employees, it says 159 that the average employee or 157 in one other place did a good job for me, and I see that the financial reports are fine, that the bill is going well, that in 2006 it was 97% and in 2007 for this period that you showed 90%. However, I think HINA can do a lot more because when we look at these users who are listed at the end, who have contracts with HINA, I think that changing the way they work, means if we follow far more and more local news around the county, by cities, by municipalities, that this list of users of the IT service could be far greater, so that the revenues could be even higher. Normally, it requires a number of employees, but I think it is worth investing in one such agency and hiring more people and providing services and cities, and municipalities and counties because many of these news, information and information are needed from both the country and the world. Otherwise, the Croatian People's Party will support this report. I hope that the Croatian Democratic Community will also support this report for the simple reason that they must have realized that they must support this council after those two, three who were served by the prime minister, I hope that the report of this HINA, such a Governing Council of HINA, will still support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93850	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93851	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kapraljevic said in his famous hate speech "how Sanader mocked the Parliament". That's the wrong quote. President Sanader did not mock the Parliament but invested everything together with the government to turn HINA into what today is the top professional agency that has shown in this report that there is no more receiving journalists without competitions, that there is no hairing or breaking news, so it has gained objectivity and has also done very good business, noting that the financial result per employee has increased by 32%. Therefore, there was no mockery of the Parliament, but you are trying to mock all that is good in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93852	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2006 to 30 April 2007. I am voting on the following conclusion: - Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA is accepted from 1 May 2006 to 30 April 2007. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 94 for, 6 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93855	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you there is a Bill on the Quality of Health Care that the inevitable adoption in the Republic of Croatia stems from the fact that quality measurement of indicators in health care must be shown in a way that once and for all puts the situation of quality of healthcare and sees where derogations lie which show that all indicators abroad are much more and much better worth the quality of health care than the perception of the quality itself in the Republic of Croatia. We consider the proposed legislative proposal to lay the foundations and start to establish the right quality system, quality control not as one parallel institution, the institutions of the system of inspection that exists today but as a rule of the institution, as in the form of an agency which is tasked with carrying out procedures to standardise procedures and medical services, which is therefore the task of enabling a system of accreditation in Croatia, which will also lead to a system of categorisation of hospitals and health institutions and thus contribute to what is the basic which is, in fact, that the health system must be directed towards the patient, and that the patient must be aware of the quality of health care. That legislative proposal, which is set before you, is referred to as an emergency proposal because it is in some way harmonising a certain part of the legislation according to the requirements set out not only by the European Union but also by the World Health Organization, which has set up a health strategy, health development for all in the 21st century where the quality management and management strategy of health institutions wants to raise the level of health care quality. So far, we can only say that in the field of Europe, most countries have carried out accreditation procedures as one of the basics of improving the quality of healthcare and even in some Member States that are not members of the European Union, the same procedure has been carried out. Some countries have dealt with this through a special law, and some have dealt with it within the framework of the health care law. This law is also part of the programme, the National Programme for the Accession of the European Union in Chapter 28 and constitutes a chapter of consumer and public health protection. In the debate to be held, certain details of this law can be given, and due to the further time we propose this law and thank you. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93856	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, legislation, European integration. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we have to be honest about and say that this intention is really good, but it seems to me it's just as intentional, and we know that the road to hell is filled with good intentions. Exactly one year as we discussed a package of health laws, we can say that it was then presented as a mini health reform, and what can we say now after a year about improving health care in Croatia? I also talked about it at the time and the IDS position was that the laws were passed only to implement rationalisation and savings and to transfer as much financial burden as possible to the patients themselves. You assured me and all of us that it wasn't like that, but I'm still convinced that in those years nothing has changed. We also had then and now to see in the very rebalancing of the budget when the most money is given to cover debts or to transfer the most money to health care. These laws passed last year neither increased health service nor cheaped services have already generated losses. Quality was restored and dissatisfaction increased both by the patients and by the doctor and other medical staff. In the Republic of Croatia, we have quite an old population that needs to be treated. We also have over a million children who are the most sensitive population and who need the most prevention and we don't have that. No one can convince me that the quality of health care services has improved when we do not have enough persons and all the necessary material resources. Only the extraordinary efforts of the staff themselves still seem to work in some way. As a confirmation of what I'm telling you, I'm going to read an article in today's Evening List written by a citizen who felt it all on his skin. He says like this: “Lying in the hospital often I kept repeating myself a man is really nothing. They operated on my colon cancer. It was supposed to last in the hot June days in the room scheduled for 4 patients and we were 6. No air conditioning, no closet, no visitor's chair. I was treated in a clinical, surgical ward of Zagreb's Mercury. The hospital's old, the repair department's mature. But nurses tend patients day and night like newborn mothers. Medical personnel are making superhuman efforts to relieve patients of pain. Thank them very much for their great love for the patients." That is why we at the IDS Club are urging the Ministry to start a systematic reform of health insurance in order to give Croatian citizens the health care they deserve. Because citizens can't wait months for checks on hospital beds without saying they're still waiting for surgery or for orthopaedic aids. If anything had changed in these years, I would have certainly praised this proposal for a health care quality law, but I'm afraid it's just formal harmonisation with the European Union's gains because we haven't finished with the foundations yet and we're already talking about covering the house with a roof. All factors affecting human health should be processed. From all being screened preventively, that vaccines are available to all. To feed citizens in quality and to have a social life, to have a good social and sports life. In this way, we will have a healthy population who will grow old. Because as Ingmar Bergman, a famous and famous Swedish film and theatre director once said: "Aging is like climbing a mountain. It leaves us breathless but therefore provides us with magnificent aspects." Because ageing is one of the greatest successes of the human race. It presents a great challenge for all of us who make laws, make strategies and reforms, and make political decisions. That is why the most important issue in health care is raised. How can we allow citizens to be healthy as long as possible? How to improve the quality of life? In addition to seeking answers to these questions, the goal must be to provide everyone with optimal treatment options, maintaining physical and mental health as much as possible a sense of security and involvement in social life. This law also doesn't make sense until the moment that all the disabled are evenly equalized in their rights. I must remind you that there are over 280 regulations in our regulation concerning persons with disabilities and that the concepts in these regulations are out of line, so our bureaucracy takes the right to interpret the regulations as they wish. In the health strategy that was in place from 2003 to 2006 to today, the equalisation of the rights of persons with disabilities should have been almost and so far this has not been done. Our government, in order to gain time, is again doing a list of people with disabilities, even though it already exists. So in order to improve the quality of health care services, first of all, laws should be passed that will certainly improve quality and be the basis for this current law, which is the Law on Equalising the Rights of Severe Disabilities. It is necessary to balance and simplify the rules to be understandable to everyone and to place all the regulations in one place. All people with disabilities should be equalized, not shared in the way that someone has become disabled. I wonder if the quality when, for example, KBC Rijeka doesn't take interns from us because it has to pay them or take them minimally. Here I received an answer today to the parliamentary question where I was told that KBC Rijeka was the last tender for trainees or nurses to be accepted in September 2006 and that 30 mid-professional nurses were accepted. Here, I got information today that there are 1200 beds in KBC Rijeka as well, and according to our law, there would be one intern on 12 sick beds. So we were supposed to take 100 intern nurses, and we only took 30 of them. So I wonder if we have done everything or if we intend to do everything, not that the proposal for a health care quality law remains only a dead letter on paper or as a compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93858	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93859	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague said a few inaccuracies. I'll try to list some. She said that the proposed reform actually stemmed from a shift in costs to patients, which is not true and that there was no improvement in quality. That's incorrect because many indicators speak exactly the opposite. The number of services for less money is increased by 2%, and I would like to remind you that the number of patients referring to treatment outside Croatia is below 1%. That's a piece of praise. And two. This information that she cited for the trainees in Rijeka is incorrect, because this year 90 million states have provided for trainees and the projected funds so far have not been spent because the trainee has less than we anticipated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93860	For the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93861	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Quality doesn't mean anything either in health care. Advest Donabedian, a man who founded modern, therefore approached and founded quality, defined it as a quality of health care as the extent to which real concern is provided in accordance with existing available knowledge and generally accepted principles and practices. And what it is, in fact, is the degree of quality of health care. This is therefore the difference between concerns that could optimally be provided and the concern that is actually provided. What is necessary and what is necessary and what is expected of this law, of this valuable material that we have in the procedure. So also quality monitoring and maintenance. And what exactly is keeping quality? These are in fact all those mechanisms of continuous monitoring of implementation, correcting detected shortcomings and preventing their re-emergences. These are precisely the elements in which this material is moving and dealing with this material, that is, this law, that we simply simplify it. It has been established, therefore, that even at the largest clinics, major medical errors are made due to non-compliance with ordinary procedures. They range from these, so these disorders move from not conducting the necessary procedures in terms of clinical guidance in surgery, when examining patients to banal armwashing, to say, it has been established that there has been an increased number of interchospital infections, etc. And when research was done, they saw that the medical staff simply did not respect the basic principles of hygiene. Therefore, this law is passed and covers a part of the so-called “. ” structure or structure, then cover both the process and the final outcome that is most important when it comes to our patients, and doctors who give medical care as such. On our committee responsible for this matter, i.e. in the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, we discussed the material in detail and we realized that there is still a place where this material can still be operated and repaired, especially in the section relating to the quality of the insurance company, so health insurance. Then at the level of primary health care, as well as in the section relating to the Administrative Board of the Agency, which will have, tomorrow, in its description of operations, supervision of the quality of health care. So here we have brought some concrete proposals, and therefore we have invited the Secretary of State here present and Mr. Minister to, on behalf of our board, but also on behalf of the club, this law that we now have here goes into regular procedure. So we absolutely support this material, we judge it as good. We're giving him full support by asking him to leave the emergency procedure to go to regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93862	Thank you. PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93863	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State and colleagues from the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the regional parties PGS, SBHS and the IMF, we would like to say a few words about the proposal for a health care quality law. First of all, it is absolutely clear and certain that we need the Quality of Health Care Act. That's undeniable. However, it seems to us that now here at the end of spring and in summer, in the finale of this summer session of the Parliament, it has been somewhat hastily rushed, and it seems to us that perhaps in a hurry not all the positive effects that should be achieved with one of these laws. It is absolutely necessary in Croatia to adopt a whole series of regulations that would regulate the monitoring of the quality of health care provision, and therefore there must be accreditation of healthcare providers. However, it is quite clear that this would occur, that there is a need to resolve further or again a number of issues such as the minimum conditions for space, equipment and personnel, such as the medical documentation rules, such as the rules and regulations on the establishment of hospital departments, the medical equipment and its maintenance rules, and the conditions for the law on the protection of the rights of patients that we have adopted. The health care quality law would absolutely have to answer more precisely the question of how to establish, implement and monitor the quality of health care. He doesn't do it exactly enough in this case. A more detailed and unequivocal determination of the existence and legal qualification of the health quality and accreditation agency should be made. To determine clearly the legal subjectivity of that agency and its independence about the competent ministry and a whole series of other matters relating to an agency that is not clear here. It is somehow the impression that the law is to be passed and that it will not be so precise and well done as soon as possible by the accreditation of health institutions that have been spoken of for years. I think that for this reason we should resolve a whole series of questions about the future position of the Quality and Accreditation Agency above all. As for certain articles, individual chapters of the law, just a few words. Article 1 mentions all healthcare providers, and later the articles only talk about hospital facilities and the other service providers disappear. The other service providers are ignored; they are simply not later. Article 2 is missing that healthcare providers may consider it a priority to be achieved by introducing a quality of health care system. Article 3 is also necessary to speak not only about the proportion of patients when deciding on a health care system, but also about the promotion needs to be spoken from the health service provider's position otherwise the results will be absolutely absent. Likewise, the safety of the health procedure cannot be processed only from the position of the recipient, therefore, but also from the position of both recipients and healthcare providers. In Chapter III, point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 7 is highly questionable as to how the Agency is empowered to adopt a plan and programme of measures to ensure, improve and promote and monitor the quality of health care, so it can be said that it is actually placed in some matters in the superior position of the ministry. And since a whole series of other articles can also be said to be impeccable or not accurate as is the case. Article 8 mentioning the Regulation on quality health care standards, and it is known that the health care system has a number of sublegal acts adopted by the minister and which determine the quality of health care area. In view of all of this, I think that it can indeed be said, including the comments of the forms that are in favour of the law, which are in part inaccurate, in order to really remove the urgency of the procedure, that this legislative proposal should be a good template for the implementation of the first debate to respect the observations made or to be given in the debate with the emphasis on further respect of the observations made by the profession, in this case, the Croatian Medical Chamber as a roof professional institution in Croatia and that a regular procedure in the second reading is likely, or certainly, to come to a much better quality law. So that's our proposal, which is actually complementary to the committee's proposal in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93864	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93865	Mr. President, honourable MPs. So as it is important matter, and where we have initially suggested that given our obligations under the national accession programme on the one hand, we are looking for the urgency of the procedure. This seriousness of this matter and the time sequence that follows allows us to give up the urgency of the procedure in such a way that this goes into a regular parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93866	Thank you very much. So it goes into regular procedure, first reading. Proposal for a health care quality law. I give the vote the conclusion: - The bill is adopted, and all objections, proposals and opinions to the proposer are accepted in order to prepare the final draft of the law. The result? With 92 for, 1 abstention and 3 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93869	Thank you very much. Here's to short. The Protection and Rescue Act shall be aligned with these proposed amendments and additions to Council Directive 96/82 and 2003/105 amending and supplementing Council Directive 96/82 on the control of the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances. The harmonisation of the applicable provisions of the Protection and Rescue Act with the acquis of the European Union has been made by introducing new provisions specifically concerning the prevention of major accidents that may be caused by certain industrial activities and the restriction of their consequences for human and environmental activities and better risk and accident management. Then the regulation of the obligation to draw up emergency plans and measures to respond to the situation. Then better access to information related to environmental protection to persons who may be affected by major accidents. In the event of an outbreak of major accidents and the obligation of the operator to notify the competent authorities without delay and to inform them of the information needed to assess the impact of the accident, the provision of wider cooperation to help civil protection in the most urgent cases and to take appropriate measures. Therefore, these proposed amendments and additions are regulated by the conduct of the State Rescue Administration and all other components of that system in the event of major accidents and thus the law and the conduct and obligations of the State Administration, as well as all the components of this system, are aligned with the legal property of the European Union. The implementation of the provisions of this law does not require the provision of specific resources in the national budget under the provision of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection and Rescue under an urgent procedure in order to comply with the rules of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93870	Thank you. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93871	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 102nd session held on 11 July discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Protection and Rescue with the Final Bill. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed by an urgent procedure. The proposer points out that this legislative proposal ensures continued harmonisation and implementation of existing rules with solutions, normal recommendations, forecasts in international contracts and agreements which the Republic of Croatia has approached or intends to access. The Committee supported the position of the Prime Minister and did not object to the proposal for the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act. Furthermore, the Committee assesses that there are interests of the Republic of Croatia in the adoption of this Act in order to bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the EU. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection and Rescue in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93872	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93873	Thank you, Mr. President. So basically my debate, I'm encouraged to actually discuss this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Protection and Rescue Act and to express my actually I'd say concern and skepticism in relation to how protection and rescue will work when certain parts within the system don't actually work, they're not able to even make a call, let's say at least one phone call. Namely, as explained by the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the proposal's representative points out that this legislative proposal ensures the continued harmonisation and implementation of existing rules with solutions, norms and recommendations provided for by international agreements and agreements which the Republic of Croatia has joined or intends to join. As a result, this proposal for a law is also adopted by an urgent procedure. And I ask the question whether the behavior of officials, officials, deputies within the service of 112 also deserved urgent action when it comes to their responsibilities and shifts. In fact, we've all been witnesses together recently, and through the media shown, I say, and the physical calculations that take place inside the 112s center, and we all remember that when the law was passed on the introduction of a single number 112, that was when it was explained and we tried to show it to you, it would be something like that famous 911 number in America. But if something wasn't right, I'd also be reminded of the "Karlovska brewery" case. I also remember it when beating up that Italian tourist in Krk when the operator who appeared in the 112s did not actually know a foreign language. Not that he didn't know Italian, he didn't know any foreign languages well and he couldn't agree, but at the same time, I don't know if it's true, but at least that's how it's transmitted through the media to the director of the administration is paid and a private English course. In addition, through the newspaper, we were able to find out that the Crime Police had also entered the 112s. I'm interested in whether that's true, whether the investigation is closed and what about the heads of this service. Are they still doing their jobs neatly? As chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, I also received a presentation from three officials from the State Department for Protection and Rescue, which I will continue to forward to the Ombudsman for gender equality, but also to the competent ministry and to request urgent evidence. Namely, they talk about nepotism, professional sexual discrimination and submit an idea of three cases where officials suffered material and psychological damage due to the illegal treatment of officials, the state administration for protection and rescue based on obvious sexual discrimination. I also remind you that, when the public broke out, that was the news of a fight that was within the service, that the union of civil servants and tenants had already responded at the time and had actually drawn attention to the fact that the situation in the service of 112 is such as to expect similar and perhaps worse incidents and tragic consequences, as they say, about 120 officials with the status of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War are waiting to be fired. I'd say in the follow-up it didn't seem like it took us long to wait and the tragic situation and I'm saying this no matter what news came out in HINA today and it's been denied that it's code, that on the occasion of this latest accident on the island of Iz, that anyone even called 911. I guess that citizen who said in public in front of the TV cameras that she called 911 that no one was answering at the time. I don't know what, I guess it was rebellious, so the woman got confused. Actually, I don't even know what number she called. However, according to the trade union, the union is again seeking responsibility and shifts at Center 112, because unfortunately explaining the situation in that service is constantly saying that the modernisation of this service is under way, that this reduces the number of employees in the centres 112, and the service seems to be doing worse and worse because only one operator is doing so according to the information that comes from the trade union. But what's scary and what could be seen on one television the other day, specifically on "The Dinevnik" New TV, I directly ask you if Mr. Milan Erjavec, here says that the deputy chief monitor of the system 112 is still in the place he was at the time. Namely, his statements that he made after the accident in Iž were mildly said disaster. The question is, in fact, to the journalist's finding that what happened should not have happened, because the number 112 was not answered this way by anyone: "A set of good musicians does not necessarily mean that it is a good orchestra. We have to look well at it." I pray after the accident that killed three people. And when asked the question of the three dead and the slowness of the service of the people of Iz, they do not see well on purpose that he responds like this. I quote, "No one's ever perfect. In that movie, "Some Like It Hot," you know, the final scene. This one says I'm a man so I smoke, this one says nobody's perfect, it's just a matter of polarizing whether it's looking positive." Please, nice. This is said by the deputy chief supervisor of the 112 system after the accident in which three young people were killed and claimed by citizens at the invitation of 112, no one responded. A youth who waited two and a half hours to get him out of a broken car like this is certainly not interested. It is constantly said that the 12 ministry is unable to function because the tasks that this service needs to perform are very complex. Well, then all I have to conclude is that in view of all the failures that have been so far in this service, the obvious tasks are too complex for those who run the service. Mr. Secretary of State, I will also request sanctions for gender equality by means of a play that I will send to the competent ministry, but also to the prosecutor for gender equality, among other things, for such statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93874	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93875	Thank you very much. I just have to look back on what you read about the statements of responsible people from the state administration in the media. If they really said it that I really agree with you scandalously because commenting on the death of three young people in such a way, it's really extremely inappropriate. The very same statement or interpretation of statements in the media certainly deserves to determine whether the responsible persons have stated it, said, but above all whether the responsible persons have made a mistake in conducting the procedure as you have said in Karlovac and here and there have been other cases. In conclusion, therefore, this law should only lay down certain obligations for additional State Administrations to protect and rescue in the sense and purpose of harmonising obligations and places and roles of state administrations in accordance with European directives. And as for the very functioning of the State Department of Rescue, the Ministry of the Interior, within their jurisdiction, will certainly carry out certain checks of their actions very quickly, will carry out a check of these inappropriate statements whether they are correctly interpreted. And certainly if it is found that there have been errors in both conduct and that responsible persons have come to the public this way that this really deserves certain changes, first of all because the service in such a way as to gain public impression certainly cannot function in the interest of Croatian citizens or the Republic of Croatia for which this state administration is founded. Finally, we will inform you after an investigation has been carried out within the state administration whether there have been any failure to act and whether there have been such inappropriate comments by the responsible persons following this truly great tragedy that has occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93876	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. There are two amendments to the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93878	Amendment 1 shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93879	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93880	Amendment 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93881	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 100 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed law. We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 734 Proposer of the Law is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Representative of the Proposer, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93883	I would like to thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Before us is the proposal of the Law on the Agency for the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services, which, in fact, is a reference, is defined by the Law on Railways where, among other things, it is found that the issue of opening the railway services market will be resolved through the establishment of a special body for the regulation of the rail market. In this context, the regulation should cover public rail transport activities and be implemented by the competent regulatory authority established by this law, and the body will be called the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, whose basic service, is the basic role of ensuring open and non-discriminatory behaviour between the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings on the rail market, in order to in any way prevent any attempt to discriminate and mono-political position and an unequal approach to railway undertakings by the infrastructure manager, in the distribution of infrastructure facilities, in the case of imposing criteria, access and use of infrastructure at the level of these charges, and in other cases relating to the provision of access and use of railway infrastructure. The activities of the Agency shall consist primarily of dealing with complaints by railway undertakings on the decision of the infrastructure manager concerning the network report, the criteria contained in that report, the procedure and results of the distribution of railway infrastructure facilities, the criteria for determining the fees for the use of railway infrastructure, the height and structure of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and other cases of access and use of railway infrastructure. The Agency shall also carry out supervision of the negotiations of the infrastructure manager and of the railway undertaking on the level of the fee for the use of the railway infrastructure and shall also exercise the quality control of the supply of rail services by the railway undertaking. The Agency shall be defined as a public institution managed by a three-member council of which one of the Presidents of the Governing Council who also manages the Agency shall represent the Agency in all proceedings before courts, administrative and state bodies. The Director shall, on behalf of and on behalf of the Agency, organise, conduct and be responsible for the professional work and operation of the Agency and shall be responsible for the legality of the Agency's work. The Agency’s professional work and operations shall be carried out by the employees of the Agency and shall monitor the legality of the Agency’s work and the general acts carried out by the Ministry of Transport. It is proposed by this legislative proposal that members of the Governing Council be proposed by the Government and elected by the Assembly or appointed by the Assembly within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Furthermore, according to this proposal, the Government will appoint a temporary professional head of the Agency within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law which is authorised to take action and prepare for the Agency's work. This law also brings us into line with European legislation, the directives as set out in the proposal, and for the start of the Agency's work in the budget, funds amounting to one million kuna are provided. For further questions, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93884	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President-in-Office Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93885	Thank you very much. Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed promoters. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal at its 70th session. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that this law regulates the delirquency and structure of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency as an independent, non-profit public institution with public institutions, thus creating a legal framework for the achievement of an independent regulatory body in the field of rail services. He stressed that the adoption of this law and the establishment of regulation bodies will continue the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union through the adoption and implementation of the secondary legal rules of the European Union that regulates these issues. Directive 2001/14 of the European Union on the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the fixing of charges for the use of rail infrastructure is a security certificate. Without a special debate, it was unanimously decided at a session of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Links to propose to the Croatian Parliament a Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services in the text proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93886	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of HDZ, respected representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93887	Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company to the companies HZ Infrastructure, HZ Railway Transport, HZ Cargo and HZ Train Towings opens the liberalisation of the railway market and, of course, the adoption of this law on the establishment of an agency as a regulatory body was necessary for the management of infrastructure. The state founded the manager and entrusted him with maintenance, modernisation, construction of railway infrastructure while in... transport as we have said opens liberalisation and the possibility opens up for all transporters who meet the prescribed conditions to be free, dediscriminatory access to infrastructure with the payment of fees for its use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, the liberalisation of the railway market is being introduced. The proposed law establishes the Agency for the Regulation of Railway Services as an independent and independent public institution whose purpose is to provide transparent and impartially public transport services, open and non-discriminatory behaviour between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. The Agency's activity is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and part of the work is to resolve complaints of rail transport on the decision of the infrastructure manager, a report on the network that must contain and display the infrastructure available to carriers, information on the conditions of access and capacity allocation and principles for determining the fee, the use of the infrastructure. Decision on the approval and access of rail transport to infrastructure, surveillance operations, quality control and transport services. The Agency has public authority. The Agency shall be managed by a three-member administrative board appointed by this Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a five-year period. In the first three years, the Agency's work resources were secured in the state budget and 1 million kuna was provided for in the state budget for 2007. The Agency shall have the authority of its own budget whose revenue is the compensation for carrying out the operations of the regulation of rail services on which the Government decides. The Agency shall submit its work to the Croatian Parliament an annual report and a report on financial operations and, at the request of the Parliament and the Government for a period shorter than one year. The Agency's supervision of the legality will be carried out by the Ministry of Railway Affairs and the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance while the Agency's financial operations will be monitored by the State Audit. The final provisions provide for the Government to propose members of the Governing Council within 60 days. The government will also appoint a temporary director within 30 days of the adoption of this law. The proposal for this law will support the Croatian Democratic Community club in urgent adoption and certainly this is another law whose adoption will improve the quality of rail services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93888	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93889	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, dear proposings. The opening of the rail transport market imposes the need to allow all participants, whether domestic or foreign, equal conditions for the provision of transport services by non-discriminatory means, as well as favouring individual carriers. Therefore, the establishment of the Agency is an obligation resulting from both our Law on Railways, which we have brought back in 2003 and the basis of the European Commission's request, which, in the light of experience, requires the establishment and strengthening of a regulatory body in order to enable any form of discrimination and a monopolitical position in the access to rail infrastructure. In particular, by the infrastructure manager and in the segment in the case of the allocation of infrastructure capacity, in the case of the charging criteria for the use of infrastructure, and finally at the level of these charges. The regulation is precisely aimed at opening a market in the field of rail services, strengthening competition and thereby the expected quality of services, which is of course the interest of all those who use it. It is questionable, however, that it will really work because the experience that we have with the Telecommunications Agency today shows that there is already on the market and with the agency, which has existed here for two years now and we still have a monopoly of one operator, so the fact that we formed an agency in itself is not enough to guarantee that the monopoly will not be. Experiences with the Telecommunications Agency tell us exactly that even a greater number of years of the existence of the agency and its gradual teaming have not yet guaranteed that users have a better, cheaper and better quality service. So although we certainly believe that it is good to establish this agency, and it is not only a matter that stems from legal obligations but it is something that will have to bring us some greater quality, it is in itself a question of whether it will, and at what time, ensure this equal approach in practice in achieving equality of approach and not only that, that this Act on the formation of an agency is adopted only because of what it is forcing and sounds good in the ears of the European Union. So if it really comes to life in the sense that we have received through this law today, we will have a guarantee that we will have such an agency and that we will indeed ensure that all, all the carriers and all the users of the railway infrastructure are in a level playing field in our everyday practice. But if that remains at the level of just formally satisfying what is required of us then I think we've completely missed the goal that makes us do it all together. As far as the other details that are regulated by this law are de facto merely technical aspects. So from the fact that we have, to talk about the agency as a public institution, about the number of members when we mention that it, that the Council has three members. On the submission of the report to the Parliament, which appoints the Council on a proposal from the Government, as well as on the funds and teaming itself from the budget to three years, and later on a market basis. So we at the HNS will certainly support this proposal because it is welcome and we expect it to improve services and quality in rail transport, but we will be very careful and watch how this agency works. So I hope we have a chance in another maybe make-up here in a year to see when we report if we've achieved what we wanted or haven't? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93890	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93891	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'm glad you supported this proposal in the debate. In my final review, I will only briefly try to give some explanations in good faith, and that is that the Telecommunications Agency did not bring liberalisation to telecommunications. Namely, the Telecommunications Agency, the entire legislative framework in telecommunications and the specific measures it has taken have definitely made great progress in the area of telecommunications liberalisation. I'll only argue that with a few data. We all know three mobile operators. The third one that started to work. The invitation to tender for the government's term of office has brought a real boom in mobile communications. He's brought war for every lip we've got now, and for the benefit of the consumer. He's brought new services. He has brought an effect that we can freely measure without exaggeration in billions of kunas saving Croatian citizens. Development in the area of mobile, fixed, fixed-net services also with a certain time swing, which is understandable because it is already getting very good results because it is a more complicated process. In particular, except for the former monopoly on the Croatian market at this time, about 30 alternative operators are active, different, providing different services. There's been a significant tens of percent drop in prices. Somewhere in some services and inhaling falls the price. Also, competition is growing in the provision of broadband services, and we also record technology competition. So when we talk about the function of agencies at all as regulators in the experience of the Telecommunications Agency, we can actually say absolutely positive effects in liberalising the well-being of citizens, which was finally established through the adoption of the report of the relevant agency here a few weeks ago in this House of Commons. Thank you once again for your support, and I am convinced that the same way that we have positive experience for at least the mandate of this government with agencies and progress in the area for which they are competent that we will also be able to give the same assessment over the course of the year for the regulation agencies of the railway market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93892	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93893	I wish I didn't have to correct this inaccurate quote from my fellow Bregle. But it was incorrect when he mentioned that the Agency had brought in liberalisation. Unfortunately, I can best assess the citizens themselves when they pay high bills for a telecommunications service, and let's just say I can't afford a new operator, especially on... Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93894	Thank you. We're closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93896	The proposed amendments from 1 to 9 of the Legislative Committee are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93897	Thank you. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 93 for, 3 abstentions and 7 against the proposed law as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. We are going to the following point: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the application of Article 65. Conventions on the recognition of European patents, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 733; Proposer is Government. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture, European Integration. The Secretary of State does not intend to explain the additional orality of this proposal. No one has applied for a hearing, and therefore it is considered final.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93902	Thank you, Mr. President. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Can I have a brief explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93904	In fact, the Committee wanted to fix the nomochnik in Article 2, it appears that Articles 1 and 2 are very similar. However, by checking the detailed convention and that act, we have found that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93905	The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93906	I'm not quite sure. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93907	Amendment withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? With 94 for, 5 abstentions accepted by the proposed law. - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of an Instrument amending and supplementing the Convention on the establishment of a European Radio Communications Office (ERO), an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 729; same as P.Z., emergency procedure, 729. The committees have held a hearing. The applicant's representative has no intention to further explain the proposal. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93911	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of the Tax Administration Project. In December 2004, the Committee of Executive Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved a strategy for assistance for the Republic of Croatia in the period 2005 to 2008 and this strategy, which was developed with the participation of representatives of Croatian authorities and civil society, set out that the main objective of action in the three-year period is to provide assistance in the implementation of reforms that are a prerequisite for entry into the European Union. In doing so, the European Bank has made very important the approval of significant loans conditional upon the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic economic framework and the implementation of fiscal consolidation that we have heard in the Assembly these days that it has been done and therefore the possibility of the implementation of this tax administration modernisation plan has also been obtained. What questions want to be regulated by this law. First of all, it is a confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for this project of modernisation of the Tax Administration, another way of subsidising the financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia as a borrower under the Loan Treaty and third jurisdiction over the implementation of the Loan Treaty. The development objective of the Tax Administration Modernisation project is to achieve further improvements in the efficiency of business, services to taxpayers and orderly compliance with tax obligations by strengthening the capacity and system of the tax administration, and this will be achieved under the management of the development of the tax administration's strategic plan and by helping to implement it for the next five years. The total value of the Modernisation project Tax Administration estimated 92 million and 720 thousand euros, out of which the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 50 million, and the rest of Croatia is obliged to provide in the budget for co-financing of the project. The Tax Administration Modernisation Project consists of several components. I wouldn't be talking about everyone here. I'd just single out some of those ingredients that are very important. This is primarily support for the Tax Administration for improving its capacity in managing human potential and implementing training, which is extremely important for preventing the action of the grey economy in practice. Also, it is very important to put into office of the Tax Administration Tax Academy in order to improve human rights, services for taxpayers and enforcement procedures, human potential management policy and the like, and particularly interestingly the Tax Academy, the Tax Administrations will also act to train at the distance and maintain seminars at four selected locations, which will certainly improve the work of the Tax Administration. Finally, I would just like to say that this 50m-euro international loan is granted under extremely favourable conditions, as always does the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law in order to move forward with the modernisation of the Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93912	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to modernise the tax administration. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 100 votes for and 2 abstentions accepted by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93915	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. But let's try to remember the Chernobyl accident 20 years ago. Confusions that have just been caused by poor data flow, data retention by the country in which the accident occurred, as well as the non-connection of all others in the reporting system in the case of this particular accident. It should also be said that the signal in the former state came right from Zagreb, that the alarm was included right in Zagreb, which of course proves that the territory of the Republic of Croatia has experience, has a profession, and that it can be included in the system for early exchange of information in case of radiological danger. The countries of the European Union approached this issue in '86, '87. The Convention on Early Reporting of a nuclear accident. The Republic of Croatia has regulated the issue of protection against ionising radiation by the Law on protection against ionising radiation and the security of the source of ionising radiation. Regulatory authorities shall consist of the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the adoption of regulations and the implementation of administrative and inspection supervision, and the State Department for radiation protection for professional and administrative matters related to the protection of ionising radiation, the State Plan and the Programme for radiation protection measures, and intervention in the event of emergency shall be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The International Atomic Energy Agency, as well as other international and domestic organisations, institutions and associations, shall be co-operated by the State Institute for radiation protection under the obligation to notify public communications, the competent authorities of organisations, associations, and international institutions in potentially extraordinary events related to sources of ionising radiation. The State Water Protection Office shall monitor and monitor the records of sources of ionising radiation, including production, procurement, import, transport, storage, use and disposal or export, and the transport of used closed radio active sources. The State Department for radiation protection shall conduct tests, where appropriate, on the presence of gardens and the strength of ionising radiation in the environment, human and livestock food, medicines and objects of general use. In the case of a possible emergency in nuclear plants, the State Nuclear Security Institute plays a key role, but there are no such facilities in the Republic of Croatia. The extraordinary event is considered to be an activity related to ionising radiation or the safety of nuclear plants caused by circumstances that are no longer under control and which may result in exposure to increased radiation of individuals or populations as well as radioactive environmental pollution. The National Institute for radiation protection also cooperates with services that carry out technical tasks of radiation protection Institute "Ruđer Bošković", the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine. In all, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and its operational body shall also play a role as well as a state centre 112 that collects and processes information, notices and data as appropriate alerts citizens, legal persons, authorities of the state administration, rescue services, civil protection and other services. This proposed law confirms the agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and non-member countries of the European Union on participation, i.e. non-members of the European Union in the early exchange of information in the event of radiological danger. And it is the organisation of the services responsible for these issues in the Republic of Croatia that guarantees that the Republic of Croatia can fulfil the tasks required by the signing of this agreement. The Agreement states in order: the purpose and scope of the application and related to potential accidents in the area of the Signatory of the Agreement or outside the Signatory State, the obligation to exchange information on the taking of measures relating to the accident, the content of information, the conditions of exchange of information with the fence that the participating States are not obliged to provide to the Commission information which would endanger national security or which the Commission does not forward further if the court is left secret. Most of the signatories of this agreement, meanwhile, became members of the European Union other than Turkey and the Swiss Confederation, so there is no reason why the Republic of Croatia should not be a signator of this agreement on the European Union's doorstep. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93916	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and the non-member country of the European Union for the participation of latters in the Community's early exchange of information in the event of radiological danger. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. How did MPs Đurđe Adlesic vote earlier? ... There's still a key. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The result? How now? What is this now? Get the key out of here, please. No key has been turned off. ... Then how can you register it? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] How? ... He won't now. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] To vote again on the Radiological Act. Please vote. The result? 98 votes for, 4 abstentions passed by the proposed law. You see, it's okay now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93919	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Railways defines, among other things, the concept of modernising railway infrastructure and aligns this concept with the wording of the Law on Construction, which was adopted after the Law on Railways. The construction, modernisation and maintenance of railway infrastructure in the interests of the Republic of Croatia is then determined which makes the importance of developing and maintaining this infrastructure equal to public road infrastructure. It is also governed by the way in which property relations are resolved with regard to the granting of real estate and the possession of property for the purpose of building, modernising and maintaining railway infrastructure within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on Construction, the Law on Extortion and other rules governing property relations. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Railways will also greatly speed up and simplify the procedures for issuing the permits and other documentation necessary for the construction and implementation of works on the adaptation or reconstruction of railway infrastructure. The very large development projects of railway infrastructure that are about to begin, the construction of the Karovac-Rijek railway line and the addition of the second track on Dugo Selo-Botovo and Hrvatska Leskovac-Karlovac shares on 5B corridor require the proposed solutions, i.e. The simpler and faster the procedures for the establishment of building permits and the proof of the right to build. That is also the reason for the urgency of passing this law. The solutions proposed by this law in the good part have already been tested in the Law on Public Roads and have in practice confirmed their effectiveness and justification and therefore we believe that the Law on Railways would have the same effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93920	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President-in-Office Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93921	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed promoters. At its 70th session, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 730. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who stressed that this law defines the concept of modernising the railway infrastructure in order to bring the termologically in line with the Construction Act and thus facilitates its application in practice and defines and the existence of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction, maintenance and modernisation of the railway infrastructure. He also stressed that this law would allow faster modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93922	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93923	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These small changes to the law proposed on the eye look small, but they are really for rail infrastructure, and therefore transport is very important. So the proposed changes, as we have heard, determine that building, modernising and maintaining rail infrastructure is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, making the importance of developing and maintaining this infrastructure equal to public road infrastructure. The concept of modernisation of railway infrastructure is also defined in accordance with the terminology set out in the Competent Law on Construction, which was adopted after the Law on Railways was adopted and most important, the way in which property relations are resolved in relation to the granting of real estate and the entry into possession of authorised real estate for the purpose of building, modernising and maintaining railway infrastructure within the meaning of the provisions and the competent Law on Construction, the Law on Authorisation and other regulations governing property relations issues. These amendments and additions to the Law on Railways will greatly speed up and simplify the procedures for issuing the permits and other documentation necessary for the construction and implementation of works on the adaptation or reconstruction of railway infrastructure as projects for the development of railway infrastructure that are about to begin, for example... The Karlovac-Rijek railways, the addition of the second track on Dugo Selo-Botovo and Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac, require these proposed solutions, i.e. As simple and faster procedures as possible to obtain building permits as well as to prove the right to build. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the HDZ club, and I believe everyone else will be very supportive of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93924	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93925	I would like to thank Mr. President, my colleagues and my colleagues, my proposings. First, my remark would apply even though this Law is quite short and small, but my first remark would refer to the fact that here in reason we are using the Law on Construction and Harmonization of Termological and Nomotechnically with the Construction Act, which we know the other day we put out of force because we have passed a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. That was my observation on the board, too. I thought a colleague would give that apology or in some way interpret it. So it's something that would be better if it wasn't so even though it's not referenced to articles, but it's referred to an explanation. Secondly, although I suppose the nomenclature is the same in the new Bills and the old ones, so it's practically just a misquote of the law because this law is no longer in force. As regards the Law on Railways, we adopted it in 2003 and it is prescribed that the management of railway infrastructure and it includes both maintenance and modernisation of railway infrastructure, while under the notion of modernising railway infrastructure means the concepts contained under this law, such as the implementation of works, reconstruction and adaptation of railway infrastructure, however, we also have this meaningful harmonisation here. It is intended to simplify the procedure in order to obtain the necessary documentation for the construction, in the case of a property transfer procedure and in the possession of those properties which are subject to the exemption under the Law and under the Law now on the spatial arrangement and construction which regulates this total matter and the issues of property-legislative relations with the Law on Execution. As for determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia in building, maintaining and modernising railway infrastructure, however, I would look at it a little bit, when I looked at the articles, I must admit that I still have some dilemmas. In Article 30a(3), the owner of the awarded property shall be entitled to compensation for the construction, modernisation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. I wonder what fee. Whether it's a market fee or an eye fee or some fee at will, etc. Especially in the context of further points, especially points, I'm sorry that it doesn't say that, I think it should have been written there. In particular, in the light of point 6 of the same Article 30a, where it is said that the proposal for an extradition on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Croatia may also be submitted by the beneficiary of the concession, if it is particularly authorised by the concession contract concluded under the provisions of this Act. I would rather see that it is always the interest of the Republic of Croatia to submit a request from the Republic of Croatia, not a concessionary, because there could possibly be some possible abuse of the very position of concessionaires. As regards the power of the solution and the way in which the payment is made, i.e. by regulating the way in which the payment and entry into the property is paid, I think that Article 30.b is well regulated, but it would look a little further at Article 31 where point 3 is deleted, so I would ask you to explain it to me. Point 3 reads these sources of funds, Article 31 reads these sources of funding for railway infrastructure. So now it states what is all the source but deletes point 3 of the state budget, the budget of local and regional (regional) self-government to finance services of particular national interest in public rail transport. She asked me to explain why Article 3 is deleted, because I don't see that railways should only be financed from other sources, I think that service and that part can be financed from this segment, so I'm not sure that's the best solution. Of course we, as a club of HNS, will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Railways and, of course, we will give our hand for it, but I would ask you to explain these reasons to me first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93926	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93927	Here's a thank you. I will try only to look back on the debate that was brief and mostly positive, in the direction of supporting this Law, which I naturally thank. So I certainly accept the suggestion and apology in advance that I didn't do it in the opening statement. The error was in the reasoning of the law, not in the text, so we didn't have to intervene with the amendment. So it's true, the Construction and Spatial Regulation Act, not the Construction Act, as the full name of the law is, therefore, with the Construction Act, the spatial arrangement of the nomenclature, or termology, is aligned. As regards the level of compensation and the level of compensation, the mechanism prescribed by the Law on Exemption, in which it is used and where a certain expert in the construction profession can be used and directly negotiated, and at the end of the rule, the practice has shown that the amount of extradition in the largest number of cases has been achieved, at least so far on road construction. As far as erasing point 3 is concerned. So now I don't have it, but I know what you're talking about. So concessioning construction is one of the forms of building railway infrastructure other than investments that go through rail infrastructure directly. Of course, rail infrastructure can also be built in the way prescribed by the Law on Railways to grant concessions for construction. Even a concession for the reconstruction of a particular direction can be given, of course equivalent to the height and in a certain number of years, so that is one of the models of construction by concession and therefore the logical intensity of the law is the provision as proposed. And your last observation of sources of funds, so Article 31 of the financing of railway infrastructure in point 3 says that these are State budget funds, local and regional (regional) funds of self-government to finance services of special state interest in public rail transport, which means that these are funds for so-called. PSO contracts means for Public service bonding or public service services for, public service funds, public service services that are not profitable. And so that's the intensity and purpose of eradicating that provision. Therefore, because the financing of railway infrastructure is related to the financing of railway infrastructure, the sources of funding for the railway infrastructure point 3 of the State budget, the budget of the regional and regional self-government for the financing of services of particular state interest in public rail transport, because these funds are not intended for construction but for financing of the PSI contract. I can't explain it any better at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93928	I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways? The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93930	The proposed amendments to the Legislative Committee are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93931	He accepts. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on board and beg to vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, 3 against the proposed law together with the amendment. We are going to the next item - Proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 738 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93933	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is before you in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. The adoption of this law stems from the need for consistent implementation of constitutional provisions on equal availability of judicial and other bodies for all citizens, the equality of all before the law and the prohibition of discrimination against citizens in view of their material, social opportunities. In order to fully implement the principles, we must exercise the same right to access the court, to a fair trial and to the citizens of poor property opportunities. The truth works to say that Croatia has never been a country to which it is within the limit range, to... The level of this right was not enabled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was made possible and prescribed several, in several laws such as the Law on a litigation procedure when the party can be fully or partially released from paying the costs of the procedure and the proxies can be set up in civil proceedings when it is unable to hire a lawyer on its own, and the court assesses this as necessary. Then the Code of Criminal Procedure when it comes to the appointment of defenders under official duty in criminal proceedings and under the Law on Attorneyship when legal aid is provided within the framework of the Croatian Bar of Lawyers to socially endangered citizens, persons receiving restraint and, respectively, persons under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. Now what seems to be this law is that the legal aid system is being arranged in a whole way, so one law is prescribed... the existence of all that is deemed to be to be covered by a law that pleads to enable legal aid to be granted to citizens who cannot achieve this on their social grounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Realising the right to legal aid is part of this law as part of the legal property of the European Union. Therefore, its adoption is also an obligation to bring the Republic of Croatia in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in particular with the 2003 Directive, the Hague Convention on the Civil Procedure of... the year and the Convention on Members of International Access to Courts of '88. the years of which the Republic of Croatia is a party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I only note that this law was also part of the screening of the Republic of Croatia where, as one of the requirements for these reasons, it is assumed that the Republic of Croatia has resolved all the legal aid issues in a certain period. Therefore, this law was in line with the Government's conclusion and in accordance with... The Republic of Croatia takes the view of European experts in order to determine its compliance with the acquis, of course, by starting on the other hand and on how one country can provide legal assistance to citizens according to its needs and social situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law therefore provides for the type of procedures for which legal aid can be granted in order to settle these issues. I note that this legal aid can be applied, refers both to proceedings before the administrative authorities and to judicial proceedings. These administrative procedures are civil states, status issues such as marriage, divorce and the like, then citizenship, work permits, residence, residence. Working legal issues arising from the status of defenders, the return of the property of exiles, refugees and returnees and administrative proceedings which may arise. It also refers to certain court proceedings, of course working legal proceedings, family legal proceedings but will not apply to persons who are in the process of maintenance if the procedure is initiated by a person who is irregularly paying for maintenance, then property legal proceedings, but not when the person, only when it comes to living space or other property necessary for the housing of the users and his family. Then criminal proceedings but those relating to the protection of victims of criminal acts. Then this law also prescribes forms of legal aid. These are the provision of general legal information, legal advice for both letters and representation. Legal aid providers are lawyers, associations and legal clinics and users of legal aid under the law. They may be subject to the law of a natural person, regardless of whether they are domestic, foreign nationals if they meet the requirements laid down by law and if they do indeed meet these property criteria prescribed by this law. Since this law is as I've already said in advance, before the law... The harmonisation of a commitment by the Republic of Croatia does not have to fulfil or certain rights do not have to ensure, e.g. to foreign nationals who do not have their residence at this time, their residence in the Republic of Croatia and those provisions which guarantee these rights will only be applied and entered into force once the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also proposed to prepare a system for issuing instructions, educate, hire, educate officials and obtain equipment that this law enters into force from 1 January 2008. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are so brief and important about this important bill. Although this law, the EU law thus harmonizes with the legal acquis of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposer, starting with the really important importance of this law, felt that this law should go through a regular procedure, so it referred it to this House of Higher House for reading as a proposal for a law, so in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-11-0.u93934	Thank you. The committees? No one's been reported for questioning. I'm finishing it. Proposal for a law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. Proposal for a law on the exercise of the right to legal aid is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote. The result? With 97 votes to, 3 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
