ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91363	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished government members headed by the president, colleagues and colleagues. We have submitted a request to Parliament requesting a vote, namely to this Parliament to vote for the government's mistrust for the reasons of the situation established by the work of USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office which we have learned about which these two institutions presented the facts that they came up with at the press conference. So this Parliament and the public are also familiar with the situation they found at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Let me get this straight. It is irrefutable that at a time when, when these two institutions, i.e. in this case, the fact that at least 800,000 euros were received in the form of bribes was found to be inconclusive when they conducted their investigation in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Since this is the amount they listed themselves, the USKOK institution itself, which was thus given by USKOK agents to fund employees. The two institutions also stated that there was a breakdown of certain companies into parts that did not cross 10 million kunas at their value so that these parts could be handled without decisions of the Management Board and only on a college of funds, where the vice-presidents of the Fund and Deputy Minister, i.e. State Secretary Ivesic, chairman of the Fund. These two facts have been presented to the public in the U.S.K.K. and the State's Attorney's Office and they are irrefutable. What followed was the arrest of eight people, of which three of the vice presidents of the fund who are currently in custody. The only thing that's not safe at this point is that we can't claim with certainty, and it concerns people who are in custody, is whether these people are guilty or not, whether these people are guilty. Whether other people with them are criminally responsible, or perhaps some others quite others, it is, of course, on a court procedure to determine and it is not the Assembly's place to determine criminal responsibility, nor are our functions and our position to enter into the subject of criminal responsibility. There are other specialised institutions that will determine this and it is out of our debate at this time. However, what is our topic and why is the Assembly the place where this issue arises is from the fact that at the time this robbery took place in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so at a time when it is irrefutable, in which the property of Croatian citizens, the property created by the people of this country, was made available to people who irrefutablely took 800 000 euros as a minimum of what we undoubtedly know in the form of bribes. The Governing Board of the Fund consisted of four government ministers whose sole and exclusive function was to sit not in supervisory, but in management. So, in an institution whose jurisdiction I'm going to make you illustrate exactly what their tasks were and why they were sitting on the Board of Directors of the Fund. So, the Management Board of the Fund had four ministers whose sole task is to sit there, and not perhaps some other persons by other criteria of expertise and knowledge of the topic is the fact that the Government is responsible for the property of Croatian citizens located in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, that it must therefore be responsible for the availability of this property and the only reason why four ministers are sitting on the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is so that the Government can be responsible for what is happening in the Fund. The only way for the government to have insight into what is happening in the fund is to have ministers and members of the government sitting there and through these government members getting a picture and making sure that the fund doesn't have what happened this time, which is that there is state property available by people receiving bribes, that property owned by the state is evaluated in a way and by the conditions that are sought by individual investors, and then sold at a lower price, to trade with confidential information, and in particular that there is no abuse in companies whose core capital does not exceed the value of 10 million kuna. That is why one deputy minister sits on one side as the president of the Fund and four ministers sits on the Board of Directors of the Fund. What happened in this particular case is that while people were identified and arrested who are suspected of being criminally responsible for the malfeasances established in the Fund as regards political responsibility did nothing. So as regards the fundamental responsibility for which the Government has control over the Fund, which is why the members of the Government are sitting on the Fund's Management Board, and one of the Deputy Ministers is also the President of the Fund with this job why this job has not been done in accordance with the law and statutes of the Fund, and in accordance with the fundamental reason why these ministers and delegates to the Fund's Management Board in the first place, this has not been answered, and our debate today is the requirement that, apart from the criminal responsibility that will be established in the Court and that political responsibility be taken over. The council is the right place to do that. The Parliament has chosen this government. The function of the Parliament is to make sure that this government is responsible for doing its job. And that government is responding to this Parliament. The parliament is not a place of criminal responsibility, but it is an absolutely fundamental place to determine the political responsibility of the government, of each government and to determine whether the government deserves Parliament's trust by knowingly doing its job. As far as the functions and duties of ministers in the Fund's Management Board are concerned, they are defined in 12 points in law. I'm going to underline here only some of which are seen in relation to specific cases and malversions in the Fund which were their tasks. So those four ministers sitting on the board of directors under the law have the following responsibilities. Of these 12, I'm pointing out 4 or 5. The Management Board shall establish business policy. This Governing Board shall determine the initial price of shares and shares and shall take decisions on the sale of shares and shares. The Governing Board shall provide guidance on the organisational structure, so it may appoint whatever people want to carry out for them and refer the results of their control work to them. This Management Board shall appoint vice-presidents to the Fund. Namely those who are now under arrest and are sitting in custody. And this Management Board oversees the operations and management of the Fund's assets. The Governing Board supervised the operations and management of the Fund's assets in such a way that 3 vice presidents and 8 people ended up in prison under suspicion of malfeasance. The Statute of the Croatian Privatisation Fund lists 21 competences of the Management Board of the Fund. I'm only going to name some who refer to this particular case. The Management Board shall, among other things, have the power to oversee the operation and management of the Fund, to submit to the Supervisory Board a report on the financial plan and the annual report on the operation of the Fund and the final account of the Fund, to determine the initial price of shares and shares and initial price of things and rights, and to make decisions on the sale of shares and shares, to take decisions on the basis of the collection of public offers, to make principle decisions on restructuring, the establishment and sale of enterprises, to make decisions on the organisation of the Fund, to appoint and resolve the vice-presidents of the Fund. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 9. The law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund appoints and resolves the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I note here that in one of the malversions mentioned at the press conference of the State Attorney's Office and USKOK, one of the things that people in prison at this time are suspected is the fact that institutions in the Fund found to have been happening, which is breaking companies to segments whose value does not exceed 10 million kuna. I repeat, in order to have the ownership of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, whose value does not exceed 10 million kuna, a unanimous decision by the College, namely all vice presidents and presidents of the Fund, the State Secretary, or the Deputy Minister who, in each of these cases, had to vote for that decision, which had up to 10 million kunas which were achieved in this way by the State Attorney's Office and the USKOK, found that it was not only illegal but criminal, so directly in the function of robbery and self-will. The minimum that people, chosen by this Parliament in government and then by the Government elected by this Parliament to the Croatian Privatisation Fund in which these malfeasances I mentioned here were unequivocally established and suspected by many others, but these were undoubtedly established for which eight people, including three vice-presidents of the Fund, are sitting in prison at this time. The minimum government can expect is to take political responsibility. Namely, this robbery took place while the four ministers were on guard. It cannot be accepted that such a thing will happen as the property of Croatian citizens is kept by these four ministers and behind them by the entire government since the prime minister has given them public support, so while this government keeps the property of Croatian citizens sitting directly in the administrative office, not even here on the supervisory board but on the board of directors, and nothing happens afterwards, that no one takes responsibility. So it is obvious that while this government and specifically these four ministers were on guard keeping the property of Croatian citizens, so far this robbery happened which was undoubtedly established. I'll remind you with these facts of another text. This text states: It undertakes the Croatian Privatisation Fund to initiate, in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the process of repealing the conversion into societies in which there is a basis for the launch of a zero solution on conversion, i.e. to launch competent courts in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc., the Law on the invalidity of certain types of contracts, on the provision of a credit agreement, appropriate procedures to determine the futility of contracts concluded in the process of conversion and privatisation, to confiscation of illegally acquired assets. It undertakes the Croatian Privatisation Fund to launch, on the basis of all reports of the State Audit Office, irregularities and irregularities in the conversion and privatisation and reports of the State Attorney's Office, as an authorised legal person of the appropriate judicial, administrative procedure, in order to recover the property benefits obtained illegally by natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation and finally in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure, etc. in order to effectively take the necessary measures and activities with regard to criminal, criminal, criminal, civil and property sanctioning of illegality and irregularities in the conversion and privatisation procedures, the determination of invalidity or the annulment of legal transactions concluded in the processes of conversion and privatisation which are contrary to the Constitution and the law, the recovery of illegally acquired assets during the conversion and privatisation, the damages done during the conversion and privatisation, the protection of assets and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Contrary to the general joy that prevailed as a response to this text, it is not the text of the opposition, it is not a proposal or an integral part of the motion to vote for non-trust with the Government, these are the conclusions that the Croatian Parliament made on the proposal of the HDZ Club and the votes of the HDZ Club and the coalition partners. So it's about the text that you colleagues from the position proposed, voted for and for which you got nothing. Zero! No report, no launch by the Privatisation Fund, no action. What's this about? So first of all it should be your question to the government, we supported you, we voted for you, we asked you to start these proceedings and you didn't do anything. I don't have any particular illusions here, just reminding you of your own conclusions, your own initiative and your own request from this government that this government has not heard at least so far in the House, but I believe you're doing it internally somewhere. Now what are the most common objections to our demand for political responsibility, our demand for minimum minimums, so what in no normal country would be at all questionable to assume responsibility for keeping the Croatian Privatisation Fund at a time when the four ministers were kept there without eyes. The most common objections and why the ministers did not obviously keep the fund from stealing and Croatian property from stealing under their own watch, why not seek their political responsibility and what are the most common objections. The first is, we have to wait for the results of the investigation and the end of the investigation. Let me respond to this objection. A criminal liability investigation is completely unrelated and has no repercussion for political responsibility. For political responsibility is enough what was unquestionably established, which is that under the board of directors with four ministers in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, they received 800 000 euros. If that's not enough, I don't know how long it took 850, 900, million, 5 million. How much money in the form of bribes is enough to be considered to be the kind of people who need to sit there and watch out for it, that they should be responsible. Therefore, everything found in the investigation concerns criminal responsibility and only strengthens the issue of political responsibility, but as far as we are concerned, 800,000 euros in bribes are enough to take political responsibility. The second most common objection is why you raise the question of trust to the government when you don't have a majority, when other words can't vote the government's mistrust because you don't have a majority. The same question as asking why the opposition sits in the Parliament? Why does the opposition propose legal proposals? The issue is even less relevant than why the opposition proposes legislative proposals. We raise the question of responsibility because Parliament is the place, the only place in which the government, every government between elections, lays accounts. The only place in between the elections can ask the Government whether you are responsible for doing your job or why you are not doing your job properly is Parliament and the fact that in our mandate and as far as Parliament is concerned, such a robbery happened unequivocally established and that it is obvious that the Management Board knew neither about it nor in any way prevented what we can say now, we as Parliament have an obligation to question the fundamental responsibility of the Government to this Parliament for our work. That's why we're starting this issue, we're starting because the government has to account for the poor work that's done right now for this Parliament, we're starting this issue because political responsibility is just... It is only in Parliament that we question and raise this question because in this country, which is quite tormented not only by thieves, but also by the fact that there is absolutely no account never, anywhere, for nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's time to start. It is enough to see that at the very least people are completely irresponsible to do their job and not to make absolutely no bills. The third most common complaint is what is with other cases, which is with yours, which is at the time of your government or as counterpart Bebić says: "Cačić, Cacic, Cacic.", I think he's repeated it once 15 times. There's no problem, colleagues, but today it's on a daily basis, political responsibility doesn't go out of date. Today, this topic is on the agenda, and that's why, because of the famous Shucker lesson, which is when you get caught with your hands in a bag or in some insub-municipality, first you fill them with a waterfall of words, then turn the saw upside down and then change the subject. And that's why, because of Shucker's teaching, in no case has it come to an end, it's not what really happened. When anyone asks a question, they make big noises so that they don’t see exactly what it is and eventually change the subject. So, I repeat, put on the agenda any topic of political or any other responsibility that you think you should and have for this argument, but don't pretend and try not to blur it out, cloud the water so that we don't discuss this topic because there are other topics in your opinion. When they come to the agenda, when you put them on the agenda of the second topic, we will discuss them of course. However, today is the agenda, and our topic is the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the fact that 8 people are sitting in prison because of malversions in the Croatian Privatisation Fund and that there are 3 vice-presidents and the fact that 4 government ministers were sitting on the Management Board at the time. Just to remind the former chairman of the board of directors, hebrang said in his interview that while he was in the fund he had full insight and knew exactly what was going on. So what happened now when these four ministers sat down and claimed they had no insight and they didn't know and couldn't know what was going on in the fund. First, how did their predecessor know? And secondly, what were they doing there if they didn't know and could know what was going on in the fund? Therefore, in this particular case, in order to clarify this matter, and I absolutely agree, and I will support you to clarify whatever things you think you have a lot of arguments to discuss in the House, but just because, until now, always, every time a topic has been launched, there is only a clouded water and nothing has finally been solved, and now we have come 17 years later into a situation where absolutely never the political responsibility of a government in this House has been brought to an end. It is time to start treating the subject with responsibility and seriousness. Finally, the objection is that why we criticise it is the government's success. I think with that objection, why are we criticizing this action, it's the government's success. I think it's a substitute for thesis and that's already quite clear in public, I'll just say it for a second. It's a success of course of the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK that this government had no idea about. THE BOOK that was established under the mandate of the last government, and if she accidentally had any idea, then of course it's against the law. So, of course, if USKOK is doing research by informing members of the Management Board before that, it would be very sad, but I think it would be underestimating USKOK. And finally, let me finish Mr. President with a quote that's not from the HDZ Club this time, and it says this, "The Almighty is an evil and dangerous thing in itself. There is no power on earth."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91364	You'll have time later. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91365	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91366	You can't. You'll have time later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91367	There is no power on earth...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91368	Comrade Pusic! Please...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91369	Which is worthy of respect...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91370	Please conclude! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91371	Please just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91372	You'll proceed later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91373	I'm just asking to find out that the phonogram club...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91374	Well, colleagues, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91375	If the HDZ Club had made it impossible for this Assembly to quote... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91376	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91377	Well, I kind of envy the model prime minister because after this kind of exposure, no one from the government should really defend anything. But I'm correcting a concrete assumption. I was surprised why Ljubo Jurcic didn't sign this interpretation. Now I understand, because usually the pretender to the throne first signs, and that's where Lesar signed it, which means he's a candidate for prime minister. I am correcting here, no, no, correcting the incorrect allegations that is scandalous for my colleague Pusic's profession where she claims this is where the political responsibility of the government should be determined. It's a classic request for a no-confidence vote to the government. Such demands in the history of world civilization were successful were 31. 31 including Benito Mussolini, who thus lost the position of Prime Minister. It's much simpler to organize an assassination on the Prime Minister because it's a much more effective method. Of course I wouldn't recommend it in a specific case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91378	The Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, will verbally explain the government's testimony. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91379	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament! I thought I'd start off differently but I was inspired by the performance of Ms. Pusic, and I'm going to ask a rhetorical and real question first. I really don't understand where this brilliant operation came from. ... Because he's been trying here for days, trying to take responsibility to the government for days, and it's been said several times, and we're not going to criminally here in the Parliament, and it's still best to include it, but she's well admitted that we won't criminally, but politically determine the responsibility of the government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I immediately admit Mrs Pusic, yes, we are politically responsible. We are politically responsible for the success of this operation, we are politically responsible for the fact that thieves, criminals and thieves no longer sleep peacefully in Croatia and we accept this political responsibility. Operation Maestro, ladies and gentlemen, is a great success for all of us, all of those who sincerely want to fight corruption. [[Applause.]] But first of all, the success of those authorities that are legally amended by the USKOK Act, by the State's Attorney's Office Act, by the Security Services Act and by the MUP which you deliberately avoid because you didn't mention them today, and they were from the beginning and directly involved in this operation. And that in such a way, in such a way that has given them a new law in all segments of these four institutions, because I will remind you, security services are two civil forces connected into one, and it is much more efficient and efficient their work than it was before. And they've been involved in this operation since the beginning, but you say it's the success of the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK, and I won't say very well, but I could also have that impression you're skipping, avoiding the police and avoiding security services. And they were initially included as reported and you saw that the director of the police at the press conference was also with Bajic and the Director of UskoK. So this is a great success of the rule of law, the best proof that Croatian society is progressing quickly and resolutely in this segment. Now a few facts. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as early as 2003 in this House of higher education, on the occasion of a vote of confidence or giving the Government of the mandate on 23 December, I personally presented here in the Government Programme and the importance of fighting corruption and it is an important important part of our programme 2003/2007, presented here and accepted by those who supported the Government, there seemed to me to be 84 votes. With this goal, the government has taken measures primarily of legal nature, what is in its portfolio, and you have taken these measures through the acceptance of our proposals here in the Croatian Parliament and given them support. One of these measures was that at the meeting of the Government held on 16 March 2006, we established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption for the period 2006/2008, which the Croatian Parliament adopted by its decision of 31 March 2006. The adoption of this programme has shown strong political will for both the government and the parliament, to be determined to engage in the fight against corruption, bribes and crime. And that's because our citizens have the right to equal status before the law. Bribery and corruption are a great evil of every society and so is Croatian society. The bribe and corruption of ladies and gentlemen, suggest a sense of helplessness for every citizen, because he knows if I don't pay for something, then the one who came behind me will get a favor before that, whether it's privatisation, whether it's health care, if it's anything, about justice, and we need to eradicate it. We will probably never end up rooting out this evil of modern democracy from Croatian society as other modern societies and other modern democracys will not do until the end and 100% wipe out of society. But that we must fight decisively and that this is a severe blow to bribery and corruption there is no doubt about it. After the Parliament brought and accepted the Government's National Programme on Corruption, we held in the Government on 12 September 2006 a meeting that you are also discussing here, and in public some have discussed with the right, the state summit, the President of the State, the President of the Parliament and me, to which we have invited all the institutions dealing with this problem of course not to interfere with the constitutional powers of one and the other. For there was also the President of the Parliament, who represents the legislative authority, and there I was sitting in that meeting, and I, who represent the executive authority, and it is logical that others who are different pillars of government can sit together without saying immediately: "They are in each other's power." So what does the government's trio mean? The government's trode means we can't meet? So we can't talk? Not all of us can say together: Yes, we are determined to fight corruption but everyone in our area. It does not mean that we cannot meet, talk, exchange opinions and support each other and encourage us to fight every evil in Croatian society, as well as against evil corruption. And after that meeting, we had another one last week. A meeting where we congratulated these institutions ladies and gentlemen who conducted this operation. And I'm going to tell you something that we rightly consider Operation Maestro and these arrests our great success. This is what the majority of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens who are in all polls from "Open" and we have followed it these days until, to contact, means "Open" on HTV to mention everything, all channels to contact on "New" to RTL's shows. Everywhere there was a majority that this was the success of the government and that we should continue to fight decisively both government and state, and government and state and state and state leadership and each of us in our segments. Therefore, all your efforts to show that this is the political responsibility of this government because you imagine a robbery happened just before said Mrs. Pusic and 4 ministers were on guard. She just said that. Yes, Mrs. Pusic. The four ministers were on guard and the robbers were caught. When your folks were on watch, some of them were robbing, they weren't caught. That's the difference between you and me. [[Applause.]] That's the difference between you and me. Your ministers were on guard. Are you telling me there was no robbery in your time? Will you tell me Mrs. Pusic that in your time while your colleague Cacic, while Mr. Linic, while Mr. Jurcic while you were at the Fund that in your time everything was fine? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Was there a robbery? There will be an investigation by that time. There will be an investigation by that time. I'm going to take one out, and I'm going to put out one aspect that's important to all of us right now. And that is the aspect of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. In our relations with the European Union around which God is grateful, there is a consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament, and also of which the National Committee and the Alliance for Europe function, one of the important tasks in our approach to the European Union is the fight against corruption. And when the criticism comes, now watch this, when the criticism comes from Europe rightly, is the government enough to fight corruption you're the first one to say, "Yeah, where are you now? Here and Europe tells you not to fight corruption enough. When we catch the thieves, he says, "Well, it's your fault." Identify yourself why you are? Are you trying not to fight corruption? But if you'd been to that you wouldn't have our consent...... Or you're just to keep fighting. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if the European Commission points to Croatia, please nicely, this is extremely important, this is extremely important. If the European Commission is referring to Croatia's criticism at the expense of insufficient fight against corruption, then you don't answer and say, "Yeah, yeah, we're getting that criticism, and so on and so on, and you say, "You see, the government doesn't do anything." ... Therefore, if the government is fighting and if this is a, a severe blow to corruption, I must tell you that in Brussels last week I was at a meeting of the European People's Party where Mrs Merkel and the President of the European Commission, Barroso, and you were probably at another meeting, and the other prime ministers, and therefore the French prime minister, after the victory of the right centre in France, and there were no other prime ministers who congratulated me on this operation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I am now asking you and asking the Croatian public whether the perception of Croatian citizens is more important or your political game on the wrong ground. Instead of giving us support, I don't mind you criticizing the government. If something's wrong, I don't mind you asking the government a question of trust if we've done something wrong. But please, who's asking the government's question of trust after such great success? Only those who fear or those who have not had enough courage, enough courage to do the same in their time We're not gonna stop the action. [[Intruder: Let's abort the action.]] Are we going to believe, are we going to trust those who now that the operation has started, when the operation wants the government and other state institutions to block it with this debate? Or we will trust those who congratulate us today both in Croatia and in Europe on this success. Therefore, dear Mrs. Pusic, this request of yours for trust to the government is a blank shot and I can repeat it to you once again. I'd like it a lot more and I think the Croatian public would say hello if you said, "Maybe the government has gone too far, maybe the government has gone too far..." Maybe the government went too far in some, say, attribution and so on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But that you supported it, that you said let it move on. But not only what you're saying, the State's Attorney's Office and the BOLO, but also the police and security services because all four institutions are involved, and now we've included the Money Laundering Office, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the other institutions that are going to be involved in this. I therefore expect that, after this debate today, the Croatian public sees who is determined to fight corruption, and who is trying to bring out this strong argument to the political maneuvers and take the wind out of the sails of this action and this operation. When the State's Attorney's Office is and I'm going to say it, I'm going to say it again here like I said several times in public, when it asked for extra money and it was about six million kuna or we already mentioned 800,000 euros, when it asked for extra money they didn't come and they said we need it, you know, we don't know why it has to be explained because we gave it from the reserve. So, there was an explanation and the argument was, the explanation was like this – we need to fight corruption. So we gave that money and we knew it was going that way. You didn't know how far he'd come, who he'd get, and that's the highest quality of this operation, and I expect you to continue to support it. I expect us to move forward and it would be good to agree on this issue as we have achieved on the issue of the European Union. It would be good to form a national committee, because despite all our differences, yes, yes, and political struggle this is a question, this is Mrs Pusic and the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs a question that goes beyond all party differences, around him we must unite but not in a way that the most spectacular and best action of state institutions is declared a political responsibility of the government in a negative way. In a positive sense, we are politically responsible because we have made this action possible. We are politically responsible for the success of this action and I gladly accept this political responsibility. And now in the end, because with probably the kind of debate you've started, we're not going to reach a consensus. I can also tell you this initiative you will experience defeat because you do not have any support in the public or support in the Government's Disposal Assembly on one positive, good action to fight corruption, and I only want to call you once again in spite of all our differences, despite a pre-election campaign that will be as we see on such topics but not in terms of support, but in terms of seeking the responsibility of those who make it possible. It's really incomprehensible to me. I call you if you have the strength to join us and no matter who it is, because being a dishonest man doesn't have a political omen. That's what we've said more than once, than it has ethical omens and it's not related to any party, but it's related to whether it's honorable or dishonest. Because he's not a criminal because he's a member of the CNS, he's not a criminal because he's a member of another party, but because he's an dishonest man, because he's immoral, because he's unethical. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our position. And that is why I call on the Croatian Parliament to reject the HNS and SDP proposal and to give support to the government and all state institutions to continue the fight, a decisive fight against corruption, because I repeat today, thieves no longer sleep peacefully in Croatia. It's a great success of this operation and it goes on as you've heard. There's no telling where they'll end up. But let him end up where he's supposed to end up, which means all the criminals who need to go to jail. Finally, I ask the Croatian Parliament for the understanding that I will now go to the House of Retired to share the third war with Croatian pensioners who have waited 13 years for this war and in this sense I ask for understanding, and there will remain ministers who will also respond to these meals that have nothing to do with political reality as I do. I propose to the Parliament that this proposal be rejected by the CNS and the SDP. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91380	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91381	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. President, calm these of you with big fangs!]] The prime minister said that it is progressing decisively and quickly in the fight against corruption segment. That's not true. All the years of the government of Europe have been saying that we are doing nothing, and if something like this had happened in Europe, the ministers would have gone alone, and the other incorrect, and I continue to correct the incorrect quote of the corruption perception index every year and every year this country is increasingly corrupt especially during this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91382	Second correction by the respected representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91383	I am correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister who said that all the polls indicate that this.../The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the Prime Minister who said that all polls suggest that this is a great success of the government. A PULS poll published on HTV says only 11% of respondents believe the government of Ivo Sanader is responsible for the success of the "Maestro" action. 20% believe it is the result of pressure on the European Union. 25% of the credit goes to the State's Attorney's office and USKOK. 12% of respondents believe that anti-corruption action is responsible for the pressure of the opposition until 18% know who is responsible for the success. Now, as many as 75% of respondents in the PULS survey believe both the president and board members must have known something about corruption at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Therefore, the Prime Minister obviously lives in great error if he intends to attribute this success exclusively to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91384	Third correction, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91385	Here is the prime minister in terms of his own tail, and I am so sorry that I wanted to commend him for his modesty and correct how he in the outpouring of his modesty that this is not the only success of this government, but also the "Brodosplit" affair. And there was the missing money, and there his minister was chairman of the Supervisory Board, and there the State's Attorney's office took action and it looks like they could catch some who seemed to have taken the money behind the minister's back. To make amends is not the only success. There are gentlemen more of these successes, and more of them will be saddened, and the public is not stupid, blind or mutated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91386	Next Amendment, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91387	Mr. President, the president of the Croatian government has said a little naively who, after the government's success, raises the question of her trust. I'm sorry he's not here. But Mr. President of the Croatian Government the past and present teaches us that one part of the Croatian people and the Croatian public can forgive all Croatians but never succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91388	And the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91389	Mr. President, I wanted to correct the Prime Minister so that mailmen should go and share their pensions, not him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91390	And the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91391	Well, he would correct this false assumption of the conditions the government created in the fight against corruption. The prime minister said, among other things, that he had changed the Law on the MUP. I'm surprised the Prime Minister doesn't know we don't have the M.O.P. Act. If he was a lapse and thought of the Police Act, I would point out that the Police Act has been in force for seven years and that I am personally very proud of him. And as for Uskok, I have to say that Uskok had a higher budget when it was formed five years ago than today. Perhaps if amendments to the budget were accepted, perhaps the BOOK and the State's Attorney's Office should not, they should not have to go and ask the government's money and thus perhaps not create an illusion of judicial addiction from the executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91392	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me that for the first time in 17 years that the Parliament has the opportunity to discuss the proposal to declare confidence to the government as a whole. Maybe that's what it was, but I couldn't find it. And that fact itself was obviously enough to cause great anxiety and wild attempts to replace the thesis and the subject. The written proposal and the introduction this morning made it clear what three basic reasons we are looking for a debate and a vote of confidence for the government. The first is that we believe that the government must have been familiar with the situation in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Another fact that does not need to be proved is that the Croatian Privatisation Fund for Management received all the powers established by the law and act of appointment of Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, Ministers Suker, Kalmeta, Cobankovic, until a few months ago, Vukelić, and that the President of the Fund, therefore is the first operative of the Fund, State Secretary Mr Ivesic. And the third reason we asked the Government for an indication of the condition of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The government delivered its late statement yesterday, in which no statement gave a report on the situation in the Fund that occurred at the time of the discovery of the affair. The very fact that in its written statement, but also this morning, by the prime minister, instead of giving Parliament an indication of what the situation in the Fund is at this point, after all, as the processes are being carried out, we heard a number of political flossules, accusations that are about to go about this demand being the same as trying to obstruct the continued actions conducted by the police, the secret service, the BIAK and the State's Attorney's office. It is indeed already at the edge of something that is not a place in Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund clearly lays down the powers of the Management Board, to appoint vice-presidents, to oversee the operation and management of the Fund's assets and lays down the annual report on business and the final account. These same rights and the same obligations to the Management Board also give the Statute of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And I hope that and the accuracy of it doesn't have to prove to anyone. The Management Board shall have the obligation to provide the Supervisory Board with a report on financial operations. Therefore, except that the Management Board should have submitted a report to the Supervisory Board pursuant to Article 12. For each business year, the Management Board was required to submit an annual financial report to the Government. Has one report since 2003 or early 2004 been submitted by the Fund's Management Board to the Government for approval? Did the government discuss those reports? Did the government confirm those reports? In reviewing the agendas and meetings of the Government which were publicly published through the HItroRez, I did not find any session of the agenda in which the Management Board of the Fund submitted reports to the Government. Neither did the government seem to have requested these reports. The Management Board also did not deliver reports to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board did not submit any report to the Assembly, which it also had to deliver each year. No political responsibility. There is no political responsibility for violating the Law on the Privatisation Fund. There is no political responsibility to claim that no report has been delivered, publically announced, an act confirming the publication. There is no political responsibility either in that Parliament has not received reports from the Supervisory Board. Then what is political responsibility? Then what is the function of the Management Board? The President of the Fund was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vice president was appointed by the Management Board. At the first press conference after the public publication of the results of the action by the state attorney and other participants, it was said that property owned by the state was evaluated in a manner and according to the conditions sought by individual investors, and then given at a lower price. Companies were sold at lower prices according to the wishes of certain investors, public tenders were created and announced, confidential information was traded, and they also manipulated stock prices on the stock market where they were extremely profitable. Who did that? People appointed by the Management Board, and those appointed by the Government, should have monitored, known and prevented it. The fund's college under the law had the power to make decisions up to 10 million kuna, but there is one small catch in the law that all these decisions on the college must be taken unanimously. Are they implemented and brought in unanimously, and a member of the college is also the president of the Privatisation Fund, which is also the State Secretary of the Office for State Property Management, is it possible to accept a statement that he knew nothing and that they were working behind his back? The prime minister said that instead of congratulating this great move, we are looking for a vote of confidence. This is a success and successful action both of the State's Attorney's Office and of the secret services and police, but the problem is that this severe blow that has been struck, I quote the prime minister of corruption in Croatia, was discovered in the place where the guards slept, and the commander of the guard was on a trip or somewhere else. The problem is that these people under the Privatisation Fund Act were responsible for supervision and business, were responsible to the Government and were responsible to the Supervisory Board for reporting. In my testimony to the government, I will say the Republic of Croatia, although it says the Government of the Croatian Democratic Union. This is a bit unusual to admit because in all the documents we are talking about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the government says in its statement that it is the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community. The first sentence found that the government has determined that it is determined to approach the fight against corruption and the word determination is mentioned 16 times. But the government hasn't given a single sentence of reference to the state of the fund. The government has not answered the question of what is with the reports, the annual reports of the Management Board. The government did not even answer the question whether the college's decisions, and three members of the college were in prison, were reached unanimously. The government did not respond in its obviouss to that either, and what is sought, will be the future and how and who will continue to dispose of the assets that remain in the fund. Some media reported yesterday or the day before yesterday a statement by the chairman of the Management Board that from now on he himself will personally oversee all privatisation procedures. Is it the government's decision to transfer the powers of the Management Board to the chairman of the Management Board? Is this the consequence of maybe changing the Management Board or the chairman of the Management Board himself taking over those powers? When the Parliament discussed the State Audit Office's report, and we began the debate in mid-February 2005 and it was in April of the vote on the conclusions, so in mid-2005, the debate came to the conclusion of the HDZ Club on the proposal, which Mrs Pusic read, but I consider one of the most difficult failures in any sense, and also in the political point of 9th of these conclusions, which was obliged by the Parliament to propose within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament a new Privatisation Act. How many times after 90 days has passed that the government has failed to meet Parliament's conclusions, and it concerns privatisation, concerns the availability of people's property in the Privatisation Fund. In your opinion, these are not elements of political responsibility either, and that is not the reason why you didn't ask and ask for the government where the new Privatisation Act is, and only after the affair broke out heard the prime minister's public statement that he would abolish the Privatisation Fund. I hope by law, not by decree. I hope the Parliament will discuss this, too, but the Parliament was supposed to discuss this in early 2006, not now, not in a month. Any attempt, any claim that this request for discussion wants to prevent the competent authorities from continuing and completing the action, to launch other actions that are needed in Croatia is something that simply cannot be pronounced, is something that is only proof that you have no arguments that would justify the fact that the supervisory authorities have not worked and that no one in 3 and a half years has asked where the reports are and that no one has asked how business is being done and who actually decides about the Privatisation Fund. And a closing sentence. I read this morning in a newspaper statement and you wouldn't have mentioned it if the prime minister hadn't told her this morning and here. He says this motion for a parliamentary debate is a shoot-out. We did not aim at anyone's head with our demand for discussion and vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91394	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91395	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this government is not taking political responsibility, which is absolutely not true. It takes political responsibility for both failures and successes, but unfortunately it's in order, so it's actually the subject of these stories today. According to his colleague Lesar's interpretation for the previous term, he should have assumed the responsibility of the Parliament because he appointed ministers, and these ministers worked, taking bread from the mouth to the vice presidents of the fund because it came to them for coffee. Like I'd buy a hotel that costs 31 million for a million. No problem, the coffee was paid a million, the hotel got paid for a million kuna, but the cream worth 30 million has melted, it's just a question in whose stomach and pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91396	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Just one little reminder. Yesterday, during a discussion on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund, I denied Mr Kramaric the opportunity to report to a replica with an explanation that he had raised a tile to correct the incorrect allegations. Later, by checking the film, I found Mr. Kramarić was right because I got information from the service, so you were right and you received my apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91397	Thank you, Mr. President, but I said yesterday that I forgive you and that it wasn't your fault. After I received the right to a replica from my colleague Milanovic. Companions and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. Let me just say in advance, my colleague Chehok and I will share this debate on behalf of the HSLS Club. But you see, at the same time, I have to admit that I have a slight discomfort to talk about today when on the one hand we have these cartoons and on the other hand, some other cartoons, and it is dangerous if political life in Croatia comes down to such a sharp bipolarisation of the political scene. I think or hope that political life in Croatia is wherever and where richer and that it is not possible for cartoons to solve our serious economic political and ine problems. And otherwise what is very dangerous in our society and what is a tendency, which is precisely that this political life is simplified to the end and then I say it is very dangerous to try, show that there is also a third time and some other thinking, because simply the reality, the citizens, the public are constantly convinced that we are also asked to choose either left or right, and I say that there are some other ways, some other solutions and some other political and other options. I want to believe on behalf of the Liberals that somehow our transition is ending, that in fact some processes are unquestionably happening and that cannot be stopped, and this is to be noticed precisely by this fact that institutions are becoming more and more independent. We in the near 1990s are so slightly pagan and sometimes and even seems almost in vain, we repeat that it is important that institutions in Croatian society become independent, that they do not depend on political relations in parliament but simply do their job in the way they should and should not be praised when they do their job well. It's their job, and especially not to reward them specifically. What happened to me is exactly how I experience it, because I remember some debates here when we discussed some similar things, so I don't know what I know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know. It is a dangerous practice because if we here in parliament, in the legislative body, do not trust our institutions, we question them, how do we expect citizens to actually accept them and actually experience them in the function of what they must do, which is respecting the regulations and laws of the Republic of Croatia. The fight against corruption, I don't think there's a single public opinion survey where our citizens put this problem of bribery and corruption first. And I don't think there's a day, a month or years that's good or not good for fighting corruption. There's always no good or bad day, every day, every month, every year is good. And now somehow I'm putting myself in this one schizophrenic situation when something happens then actually what we're trying to do is we're trying to politically and ideologically impregnate that I don't know what happened is in the context of a pre-election campaign. It would be, I mean it's, everything is possible, but if we just brought this action down to it then it would be more than dangerous and then it would actually prove that such actions just don't make sense and that they're actually... character and that they're just serving this one-time political purpose. I would not like to see it that way, I would really like to see it as a readiness of these very institutions and societies that we are just facing this obvious and what citizens consider to be one of the biggest problems of Croatian society, which is bribery and corruption, and as one columnist says, it is not only a problem of corruption that it is too high-ranking than it has everywhere. And then it really isn't just about the central authorities, the central institutions, but unfortunately it goes down to local levels, regional levels, and it's just showing us how trapped this society really is and how a whole series of political decisions are actually in the function of this capital that comes in a kind of weird and impossible way. That's why I'm saying that liberals want to see exactly what I'm saying is important, the importance that institutions act independently of political relations, is that we can face corruption, that we can also position it so highly. We want the action to go to the end exactly and to last both tomorrow and the day after 25th of November this year. And secondly, the same thing as members of that worldview is very important to us, because we think that the very serious societies differ from the non-serious ones in how much responsibility is practiced. Indeed, only serious societies are responsible societies. If that's not there then I'm afraid we're really going to repeat all those childhood diseases of our transitions that have always been too much and that have just come down to that story of yours and ours. I say in this story of yours and ours in no way do we want to participate. It is not possible to escape political responsibility, but fortunately the elections are relatively close, it will happen at the end of this year, but where and where more will counterpart Chehok say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91398	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ivan Chehok in part two on behalf of the HSLS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91399	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As my colleague Kramaric said, we are discussing today with these cartoons, with these big towers that look like big screens. But it might happen to us if we approach things in the atmosphere of this debate so that there are your and our thieves, smaller, bigger thieves, small, large fish, I'm afraid of colleagues and colleagues, so that we can all eventually turn out to be cartoons. That can't happen to us at all. There are no of you and our thieves, no small and large, small and large. There are thieves and those who are not. It's hard to talk about today that some of them were members of our clan or were closer to us, or something was not known in our time, or could not be known, or our thieves weren't doing such big things, your thieves are bigger thieves. All those who have sinned, all those who have been caught in any way in any immoral way, not to speak in a criminal act, are equally yours and our thieves. Like the disease you carry inside you is your disease, although it is against you. So are the thieves. Our thieves all of us, even all of us sitting here. Mostly those who are corruptly bound. They're all our thieves, just because they're against us. And the only accurate diagnosis and symbolism of evil and corruption is the one that old moralists once painted. Evil is an outbreak that spreads. Corruption is a spreading disease. It's actually a metastasized form of cancer. And he is against you no matter what part of the body he was, whether on the left hand, on the right hand, on the heart, in the middle or the heart which is a little more to the left, he is always against all of us. And that is why I think it should be said that yet this assembly of the Croatian Parliament has created a legislative, institutional, logistical and, of course, by adopting the Budget and Budget Law and the financial framework that we are all fighting corruption together. Unfortunately, we haven't done that before. Before, ladies and gentlemen, we had counterintelligence, intelligence and security services that persecuted journalists instead of criminals. I hope it's behind us and that it's just us in this assembly and the government with our responsibility finally established the security services that will haunt you as... as an eternal Jew to persecute and be after five criminals, instead of persecuting journalists or listening to us or watching anyone go away on Fridays or Saturdays and what they do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we picked a state attorney here, I remember my argument. That's when I said, this is a historic act in Croatia. Why? Because one of the state's attorneys survived the shift of power. And that's when I knew that Mr. Bajic, whom I am expressing as a representative and as a citizen of this country's recognition and gratitude, would know that he would get caught in the fight, in that convulsive fight with crime. But the fact is that this government has managed to overcome some narrow party interests and all of us, and has managed to choose the state lawyer that the former government, or Croatian Parliament, had previously appointed. And it must not happen that judicial institutions, that intelligence, security institutions depend on political changes, because then this leads to a partyocracy, then leads to a part-time way of managing these institutions, then leading to the politicisation of the institution rather than to the independence of the institutions. As ladies and gentlemen cannot happen, the only thing I see is the moral responsibility of the government, that boards and boards of directors are chosen according to who has the votes, to choose who is close to the government. Let's finally depolitize both administrative approvals and supervisory committees. That'll reduce the parttocracy, then. As a representative club, we've been demanding a year ago that ministers be removed from the boards of directors and boards for their sake and for all of us sitting here. Of course, the government's representative, the vice-president for the economy, must be involved in the work of agencies and funds and state institutions. This is quite clear, because there must be an extended arm, there must be a decision-making mechanism between the government and administrative and supervisory. But let everyone else be professionals. So let's introduce the criteria of professionalism instead of the criteria of partocratism instead of narrow partying. And that's why I think the government would now show its credibility to the end, so that it would actively confirm what the prime minister was talking about that it would continue to fight effectively both with force and vigorously against crime, I think the government should now withdraw ministers from the supervisory boards, boards of directors, mainly from the trust's board of directors. And that the fund should also be converted into a state agency, in our opinion it should be joined by the Investment Agency because the properties and properties and portfolios of all of us, these countries, serve the national well-being so that we can continue to invest or further enrich the goods that we have left behind and which we care about. So the fact is that we created the frameworks, the fact is that this is what you can say to the horizons, that this is something that will intimidate possible corrupt links and corruption chains in Croatia. But we're doing it again. Let's go to the end to depolitize professional services, go to the end to depolitize government institutions, go to the end so it doesn't really happen to us that someone's been stealing us for four years without us being able to determine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91400	Thank you. Only the first corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91401	Comrade Chehok! There are no ours and your thieves. There are thieves behind bars and those who are not. The question is, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91402	Proposer of a respected representative, Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91403	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer. There's always a mix-up of thesis. The prime minister reiterated this one more time in his response. I believe that on behalf of the promoter, we should return the debate on the topic on the agenda today. So the "Maestro" action is and we all think it's so successful not because it's a demonstration of the functioning of the rule of law or that it can function here and there. It is so significant in the first row because the moment the rule of law functioned, it showed that corruption goes to the top of the executive government. That's the problem we have to face. All this other stuff is foreign problems. All of these are follow-up topics that we can discuss further. But our fundamental problem, which Parliament and Parliament is responsible for, is the question that a successful action has revealed that the theft of these proportions that we are talking about has taken place under the Governing Board of the Four Ministers in, from this government. And everything else is mixing thesis. It cannot be the success of the government and is considered and declared to be the government's success that one action has revealed that four ministers are in the Management Board at the time of the property robbery. The action is successful. But the result of the action raises the government's responsibility for the job it was entrusted with. And that's what we're discussing today. We are not discussing the fact that the institutions that carried out the "Maestro" action successfully. We all agree on that. But what's her score? What is the outcome of this successful action? The outcome of this successful action is to show that corruption is climbing to the very top, or that the Management Board is sitting in an institution where these scales are stolen. And it is not true that the European Union and the members of the European Union praise this action. At the same meeting, only other political groups were in Brussels on the same day where people were coerced to have ministers still sitting on the board of directors. Consterned, to sit on that board of directors not thinking at all, not in the matter of whether they were corrupt or not, the ministers themselves were corrupt, but the fact that they were on the board of directors when it was discovered, revealed, revealed corruption of these proportions. And as far as perceptions are concerned, let me quote the results of "Transparency International" on the perception of corruption, which in 1999, Croatia was 74th on the ranking list where you are lower, you have a higher degree of corruption or less, you are less pure than corruption. So 74th place with Burke's faso. In 2002, she was in 40th place together with the Czech Republic. And in 2005, she was back in 70th place again with Burke's faso. It is about the perceptions of corruption in Croatia and that is our problem. And the fact that at this point, the government and its ministers are not prepared to take responsibility for the events in the institution at which they were headed, favours the spread of the culture of corruption. It pleases the perception that those at the top are never responsible for anything no matter what happens under their noses is robbery and corruption. And it's not the solution that my colleague Chehok here said that instead of members of the government, professionals would come. No corruption is reserved for any profession. Corruption can be both professionals and politicians and all kinds of people. At the end of the line, the vice presidents of the prison fund are professionals, not political voters if you will. Well, they're sitting in custody right now. The solution is surveillance. The solution is that such institutions must have effective public oversight. And what we are doing today with this debate in the Croatian Parliament is also a public insight into the chain of responsibility for these things. And it's our thesis and claim that we're defending here and the reason why we're starting here is that there's no authority that can be allowed to work without supervision and without responsibility for its actions. And when, under her Management Board, what happened is mass theft and corruption, then there must be a point where responsibility is taken if we ever want to stop corruption as our underlying problem and as a mass phenomenon. So the solution is in clear responsibility. That's our request.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91404	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91405	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague that corruption goes to the top. Namely, the vice presidents of the Fund are really not the top but I understand the action, the political summit, but I understand the action, the preventive action of a colleague because she is used to corruption being at the top of the past government and are dominated by Maestro Linic, Maestro Cacic there. And it's for sure that getting closer to the BOOK and the Attorney's Office is what's causing them to panic in your ranks, so this whole circus is what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91406	Second correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91407	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Pusic said it is not true that the European Union praised her. That the European institutions did not, that they praised this action. My colleagues, you've heard, you've heard that the government has been praised. The prime minister was at a meeting where they were present and where they were currently the president of the country that chaired the European Union, so Mrs Merkel and Barroso, so the President of the European Commission. If these are not European institutions to you, then I really don't know what you're talking about. And the other thing is not true that the political responsibility is for the people who sat on the board of directors. Namely, there is no evidence that they participated in this bribery and corruption action in any way. So no evidence. I also can't accuse you of being in HNS specifically president of what your colleague Cacic was doing. I don't mind accusing you of taking the millions he took in the retirement home in Dubrovnik. ... So either, either charge the SDP for what was done in hotels in Dubrovnik where three hotels were the most exclusive sold for 35 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm not thinking of accusing the SDP. There's no telling who was involved. Here he is, signed by former Prime Minister Linic. So, is it SDP or HNS that we don't care?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91408	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Chehok is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91409	Dear Mrs Pusic misread and misquoted my words. I am fully aware that criminals in a corrupt chain can be both young and old, both professionals and non-professionals, and people like this or such professions. I was talking about exactly what she said afterwards that it would be a more effective surveillance and better organisation if people sat down who, by their profession, could better monitor the work of one agency or one fund than ministers who were otherwise overworked by other jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91410	And the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91411	I think my colleague has repeated her claim that the "Maestro" action has been successful six times. We don't know if she's successful. She's a successful starter. Sime Luchin, too, thought he had reached the very bottom of organised crime when he started the “Group” affair. So we need to see if she's gonna be successful. So, I believe it will be successful and I welcome the government's support, and I would like to create the Haso, the Croatian Anti-Corruption Union and support the government in this major anti-corruption project.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91412	SDP representative club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91413	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. It is a shame that there is no Prime Minister Sanader here today because I think he should have answered the fundamental question that is being raised in this request that we are discussing here today, and that is because for Prime Minister Sanader it is political responsibility. What else has to happen is that the government, one of the ministers or prime ministers, is politically responding. In a few months, 800,000 euros in bribes were received by three government officials, and the prime minister thinks it should be considered his success. So the fundamental question to be answered here today is that it is a political responsibility, which should still be the government's political responsibility. Being in power brings honor, but it also carries an extremely great responsibility. The power to exercise its sins on others is not the responsibility of authority. It is a pity that at least you did not stay at the level of the standard reached by the former Racan government in which Health Minister Ana Stavevic Rukavina resigned for the "Baxter" affair. Neither did the woman order Baxter's dialysis, nor did she buy them, nor did she join the people who unfortunately died. But as a health minister, she felt she had political responsibility at the time and resigned. There's no criminal responsibility required here. It's the job of the judiciary. It is the job of some other institutions, so the political responsibility of ministers sitting on the Fund's Management Board is sought. In countries of the European Union which are on a much higher standard than that, Croatian ministers resign because they bought chocolate for their own child on the official card. They returned an extremely small amount I don't know half of the euro or the euro and resigned because they did something contrary to the law. It's called political responsibility. In our administration, four ministers take a bribe of 800,000 euros and are not considered to be a political liability. Political responsibility is sought because in all three suspected vice-presidents of the fund they have been appointed to the post in the term of office of the government. They are HDZ personnel, as is the president of the HDZ fund, and the most important is the Steering Board, which has four members of the government. Deputy Prime Minister Mr Polancec and three ministers -- Minister Kalmeta, Minister Suker and Minister Cobankovic. They were paid as taxpayers' ministers to manage state property and they did so so that they did not know what was going on under their administration. That this is HDZ's top professionals, said Mr. Polancec's predecessor, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. He claimed for all three people in his interview that they were top professionals, to take 800,000 euros in bribes. Trying to attribute to myself the success of the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, I think he's just trying to undo the political damage that Prime Minister Sanader is very aware of in this situation. In the government behind a number of ministers, the affairs are being dragged, and some of them have already been replaced by the prime minister himself, which shows that he is personally aware of the government's poor picture of Croatian citizens. That it is thus shown by polls and research by the “Transparenci International” according to which as many as 47% of citizens believe that corruption has increased significantly between 2003 and 2006. To fight corruption, it takes a lot more than one or two as the prime minister calls them spectacular actions. The fight against corruption should take place all four years, not half a year before the elections and the most important anti-corruption can only be fought by unpromised people. Four years of HDZ's term of office are four years of affairs, from the prime minister's bodyguard, who was first disowned by over two deputy ministers, Kosor, who were appointed, and due to criminal charges, has been changed. Until recently, HDZ's assistant interior minister has been indicted on suspicion of abuse of office. The HDZ administration of Brodoplita, whose suspicious affairs, was also warned by the Supervisory Board headed by Economy Minister Vukelic, who also did not know what was going on in Brodosplit. But he also participated in a single ever-expanded councilman's purchase affair in Karlovac. The Imostroj affair, Bechtel and Verona Griv are also one of the major and senior HDZ officials. The “stone ingrad” is a sin of government as a whole. The unknown origin of the Prime Minister's property, which he bought a collection of watches at the moment, I won't speak. We're getting to road construction. That's where the bench started to fall apart, but so far only Minister Calmeta's driver has fallen. All in all, in these four years, when water already reaches the throat, someone falls at a lower level, never someone at some higher levels and never the highest. In one of his public statements, the attorney general said that the action was stopped before the deadline because one of the defendants found out he was being tapped, so fearing that the whole action would not fall into the water anywhere before it came to an end. Since Prime Minister Sanader and a narrow circle of people knew about the action, the question is, who is it and why has the action gone so far? People would say who ratted? To whom did the paths of the investigation lead, and who did not allow the action to continue? Whom was trying to protect at the very top in this way by stopping the “Maestro” action before the time. The question remains to the Croatian public, which is why some ministers knew nothing about this action. Why, for example, nothing. Didn't the Minister of Police or the Minister of Justice know? Does this mean Prime Minister Sanader doesn't trust his closest associates? If it is to judge, according to Prime Minister Sanader's statement on the RTL in which he said, I quote: "I do not trust my minister but trust the state authorities.", then it is indeed about the Prime Minister's fundamental mistrust towards his ministers. What kind of government is this where the Director of Police directly talks to the Prime Minister and bypasses the Home Secretary? The different criteria of this government are interesting. When it came to the investigation of Brodosplit, the prime minister kept pushing it towards the state's attorney's office, claiming the government had nothing to do with it. It was similar in the case of Glavas. Now suddenly the government is very responsible for this action. In this case, congratulations should be given to USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office who have done their part of the job. However, the State's Attorney's Office is not part of the state's administration as it has tried to present it to the Croatian public several times in some TV shows. The state's attorney's office is an independent judicial body according to the constitution and who knows which time the prime minister makes his statements in the constitutional trio of the government. It also goes against the fact that at a meeting that was in some way a political meeting, the President of the Supreme Court was invited to have no place at the meeting. And here today, Prime Minister Sanader tried to justify the fact that the Supreme Court president was present at a meeting. He shouldn't have been there because it's a violation of the government's trio. Here, Prime Minister Sanader tried to say that this action succeeded because the HDZ government had made all legal advances to succeed. And I'm going to document you here right now that that's not the case. The very meeting that Prime Minister Sanader organised showed that it was not because it had just discussed the necessary changes to the existing laws so that the "Maestro" action could be brought to an end, or rather said that those accused could in fact in some way be held accountable by law for what they did. Why? Because laws are hollow and because many things aren't arranged. I'll remind you of the Penal Code that we changed sometime before the end of the term. The law was brought down in the Constitutional Court because not enough MPs voted for it. However, the bodies of economic crime that were regulated in this law never again appeared by the government as a proposal. We, on two occasions, gave the Penal Code into procedure, didn't accept it. In that Law were some extensions of limitation. It's not extended either. Therefore, the will and desire to judge everything that is some kind of economic crime in this government clearly does not exist. When we passed the USCOD Act, you voted against the law. Because you were against that body. Furthermore, all the time in these three years, you are also deafening the appeals of the State's Attorney's Office, which warns that, without certain changes in the law, they cannot be effectively dealt with with with with with with crime and corruption. You disobeyed them, and none of it changed in laws. And finally, in this hall, about a year ago, Professor Ivo Josipovic gave an amendment that the minister did not accept. It was an amendment by which you could now take gentlemen from the Fund's property, and now you will find it difficult to take it, because Professor Josipovic then warned that the weight of the evidence for the property must be on those who committed the crime, who took the money, which they bought from that money. You didn't accept that. Today, the burden of proof will be on the State's Attorney's Office. All this evidence is therefore that the government has not had any will or desire to really fight corruption from the beginning. A part of the public believes that this action is the most responsible, in fact, of the pressure of the European Union which gave its opinion last summer that they criticised Croatia for insufficiently fighting corruption. In Brussels, in its Progress Report, 11 months ago, the following was said in Brussels: "Despite the reinforced USKOK and the adopted Anti-corruption Programme in Croatia, there remains a serious problem. Many corruption charges remain unexplored and corrupt behavior usually goes unpunished. Too often, highly profiled and other cases occurring in the media were founded or not missing from the point of view and full application of the programme and strong political will is needed in order to strengthen efforts and especially when it comes to high-level corruption.". These are the words that were then spoken by Brussels, which means the state and struggle of the Croatian government with corruption. And in March this year, those same grades were repeated. Since Prime Minister Sanader is aware that the next such report comes ahead of the elections, he realized that something must be done and that we got the action we got. This reminds me a little of the year 1999 when people so-called "theatrically" were being hunted. criminal organizations. Everyone's free today. In any case, this government in the full four years does not show a political will to deal with corruption. For three and a half years, the position was systematically offended every time we warned that some irregularities and when we asked for them to be investigated. The SDP advocates' club these days has sent a proposal to all clubs to amend the Constitution that would prevent everything that has been done in this country so far as we say by covering the conversion and privatisation, but also by war and war events, so what we call war profiting, so in order not to go into obsolescence, we have given an initiative to change the Constitution. Finally, those clubs behind the initiative will show how truly ready they are to fight crime in this country. And in the end, I would like to say that in this country, besides building a good, quality system that will fight corruption and against economic crime, we also need a return to morality as fundamental values of politics and justice. We need a change in the system of values, because in this country no one can get a job or move forward unless there's a connection. And all it has to do is say that the problem of corruption is that it starts from petty quiet corruption to then rise to corruption at the highest level in the system. And because I made arguments here, so we're just looking for the political responsibility of ministers, the government's political responsibility for what was going on at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91414	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are still 4, 5 actually clubs. There are still 36 MPs reported. It is according to some estimates about 9 hours if all of you, without those replicas and corrections, etc. It's about nine o'clock, so we're gonna be able to do it without a break. Now we have 13 corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91415	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Opacic, incorrectly said that three government officials were caught in bribery and corruption, later said that three HDZ officials were caught in corruption. So it's not true that the three who are the fund's vice presidents are government officials, they're not government officials at all, that's what a colleague should know, but obviously she knows it, but she's misinformedly informing the public on purpose. And neither are HDZ. These people worked at the fund, they were employees of the fund, they were even preparing to sell the Excelsior Hotel, which was sold for 4 million kuna. The new money hotel was sold for 4 million kuna and in two sales decisions was signed by the chairman of the Management Board Slavko Linic, and prepared one of those who were in custody today prepared him and said there is no obligation to invest, of course, because the hotel was renovated. Which would be invested in a hotel that was renovated. There is no obligation to sell or dispose of shares. There's no ban on selling or charging real estate. I'm glad you mentioned the Rukavin case, but why didn't you listen, say, to Pava Mayor... who said it wasn't the best offer. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91417	Why didn't you listen to her?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91418	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91419	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Opacic has spoken several incorrect allegations. So the first colleague has already corrected the fact that no government officials have been arrested. I'd say the suspects, so they're not convicted, so we have no right to talk more than that. Secondly, you stated here that the prime minister said he didn't trust the minister. This should be read as a statement of no confidence, but of trust in the system and that he would not take anyone for protection, and if he didn't trust the minister then he would have replaced him, he wouldn't have worked with him. And the other thing, the last thing. You said it was a shame he wasn't here as prime minister. So you know that this is yours, and we all know that, that is, SDP and HNS pre-election play that really doesn't need or attend to solve more important issues right now, and this play will certainly not help to reduce the perception of corruption in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91420	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91421	Thank you very much. In a series of incorrect allegations, I correct my colleague when she said I was, quote me, I don't know how, that all employees are top professionals. You could have heard on the radio my original answer to what you read and what press I don't know. I responded to your party's meal why I received one of them. I took him in because he finished most of American business schools, and I was happy that a man like that wanted to work at the state administration. I also said that I controlled them strictly, and that's exactly what I made my own decisions about, but I slowed down the privatisation process, and that's how it can't be done. I'm merely correcting your guilty allegations that the ministers were guilty because they didn't know. It's not the Minister's fault on the Supervisory Board who didn't know, it's the defendant who didn't inform him. By law, criminal liability is misinformation or short information, and you are not responsible for criminal charges if you have not received the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91422	Fourth Amendment, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91423	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Opacic accuses the government of taking it out on others, which is not true. This government isn't taking it out on others at all, it's just doing what we're talking about today. So the unwrapping of the corruption bench started, but it was just my colleague Opačić who cheated on others when she cheated and deceived the entire Croatian public to be followed by secret services, and by waving that paper, we later read in the media that this paper had nothing to do with secret services, but it was some tails from her private life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91424	Fifth correction, Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91425	Well, an esteemed colleague has incorrectly stated and in this sense I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this government has only been fighting corruption for the past 3 months, so I would correct in the sense that this government has been fighting corruption throughout its term of office, creating normative, therefore legislative and financial preconditions so that we can even talk today about this successful action... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91426	Sixth Amendment, a respected representative of Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91427	Thank you very much. Here in her debate, counterpart Opacic said that the most corruption occurred right in the term of this government, so she mentioned a political affair in Karlovac. That's not true, fellow Opaci. The biggest political corruption is happening right now, today and tomorrow, but it is under the auspices and leadership of Mr Bandic and you personally when you came and visited the area of the Fourth Bezovica, forcing people to join the SDP otherwise they will not get 300 metres of paved road. I call on the media to clear up, just so you know. Mrs. Opacic, you've been to Horvati and you've asked people to enter the SDP or I can't get water supplies. That, tomorrow, you will have an opening for the money given to the citizens of the Buying King in the city budget, but tomorrow you will also come and Mr Bandic to open, show that it is the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91428	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91429	You're lying... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91430	Thank you very much. Please! Chems of Squire, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91431	Here's the time. counterpart Opacic said that this government was not responsible as the previous one, and that the previous one was not true because the previous one was completely irresponsible. Here's just a few cases. She completely disbanded the Secret Service by coming to power. Second, instead of chasing criminals, she sent them to the church of St. Mark, we remember. Three, two years have failed to appoint secret service leaders, and that was the call to rob now or never. Fourth or fifth, what about Victor Lenco's biggest thief in Croatia? What about the Rijeka Bank and you promised 200 thieves to the richest in Croatia, and you didn't make it to the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91432	Next Amendment, the Honorable Representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91433	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. A colleague incorrectly stated that hollows of legal proposals were passed and that she was reluctant to put an end to corruption. It is precisely the proposal of the Croatian Government that we have had the opportunity to discuss and decide on, the quality legal proposals that have resulted in exactly this conclusion of the action. Of course, with this national anti-corruption strategy, a new Security Services Act has been adopted, the additions of the USKOK Act, the addition of the Law on State Attorney's Office, and therefore we should also be commended in the Croatian Parliament because we have created and adopted these legal frameworks in order to truly care for corruption at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91434	The ninth, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91435	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Opacic literally said, "The government had neither the will nor the desire to resolve corruption." I will now repeat what she said in her presentation. She only mentioned State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT. She deliberately avoided mentioning police and secret services. According to this, Mrs. Opacic, you want to avoid mentioning police and secret services in order to reduce the merits of the government. And so did Mrs. Pusic. So be correct and mention all those involved, because this is how you deceive our viewers and our public when you don't tell the truth to the end. When the truth fails, it can sometimes be almost a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91436	The tenth correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91437	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representative Opačić said that mainly the merits of the European Union and its criticism that this brilliant action was brought in, i.e. it was started with an effective fight against corruption and crime. That's not true. Just through the whole series and the national programme that this government has adopted, then strengthening security services, then the USKOK Act, then strengthening the police, financially and financially, all of this creates the prerequisites for bringing these actions to an end. But precisely the fear that the action will be brought to an end and the real names are the reason for this parody that they are doing here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91438	The 11th Amendment, a respected representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91439	Mr. President, a colleague said former Health Minister Ana Rukavina Stavinic resigned because of political responsibility which is not true. She resigned because of pressure to give way to the next minister who came from the hospital where the most "baxter" apparatus was purchased. It is, therefore, not political responsibility, but the political pressure of its own party. She also said the prime minister said he did not trust his ministers. The prime minister did not say so, he said he trusted the state's attorney's office and the law enforcement authorities who followed the gentlemen from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And they're also not senior state officials, they're not government officials at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91440	The 12th Amendment, a respected representative of Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91441	Your Honor, Mr. President. MP Opacic said the government did not make all the legal conditions for curbing corruption. That's not true at all, because exactly the success of this action is the result of creating a positive legal atmosphere to combat corruption. But let me remind my colleague Opačić that the former coalition government adopted a national anti-corruption programme in March 2002, where a draft commission for the implementation of the national programme was envisaged. For more than a year and a half, they haven't established that commission, so my question is, why didn't you set up a commission if it wasn't for corruption in your ranks?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91442	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. A rhetorical question in correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91443	Thank you very much. Mrs. Opacic said this government does not show any interest and will to fight corruption. Completely incorrect, because this government is also an action, but not only this action, or the conditions and preconditions created for this action to take place, it has also shown in this segment, it means in the fight against corruption and much interest and will and desire. By the way, I'll remind you, by your government and your accomplishments and your pre-election promises under parol, we want to change, of these changes didn't come true during your term of office anything. In this part, we only remember the revisions and privatisations, sanctioning economic crime, significantly reduced salaries to all civil servants in order to begin to invent various public and chieftain places with increased pay coefficients under the cover of reforming services. Therefore, the imposition of this proposal by you who have joined the HNS in my opinion cannot be interpreted differently and called a different name than pure political demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91444	Thank you. At 11.35, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91445	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I, unlike some previous speakers, will not read and do not have a pamphlet written but will speak very clearly and concretely, as I always try to do. In the term of office of this Government, certain changes have been made in the way the Privatisation Fund functions and in the way decisions of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund have been taken. In the term of office of the government and in the term of office of ministers headed by the Privatisation Fund, all privatisation tenders shall be published in domestic and foreign written media. The tenders arriving in such published tenders shall be opened in the presence of, of course, the employees of the Privatisation Fund, but I in the presence of the media and in the presence of the public notary. All tenders which do not comply with the tendering documents or the text of a public tender shall be eliminated at the same time. One big step we have made is the fact that we have opened the meetings of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, that at these sessions, together with members of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, and representatives of the media, that all TV cameras are included, can listen and communicate to the Croatian public all our discussions, this is also a major contribution to a more transparent privatisation in Croatia. Privatisation, which in itself has a different purpose and purpose than it was up to a few years ago. The main objective of privatising a society is to raise the competitiveness of this society rather than merely the revenues of the state budget. When I say raising competitive capacity, I mean first of all, by privatizing that the new owner and strategic partner in a company becomes the one who has healthy capital, who has knowledge, who has access to the global market and who will invest in that society to raise the competitiveness of that society. We also introduce a software system that will help select the most favourable offers. Also, this government has made it possible for functions, that institutions such as USKOK, such as the State's Attorney's Office, such as the Department of Economic Crime and many others can do their job more effectively and systematically. We did it by ensuring legal preconditions, we did it by ensuring material preconditions. We have done this by ensuring that these institutions and personnel therefore agree and team up. The Maestro action is a great and brilliant action of these very institutions, but it is brilliant precisely because this government has provided the preconditions that these institutions can finally function in the right and only appropriate way. No minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the "Maestro" action, no member of the Privatisation Fund's Management Board, knew about the "Maestro" action, was familiar with it. And I want to say it loud and clear again. At the moment of the investigation, an analysis of all cases that are from the Privatisation Fund is ongoing. If the investigation is ongoing, then I'd like to say that everything I know about what's being arrested is being put on the table and I know about the media. At this point, we are neither here to judge nor judge. We don't know what's on their minds until the end, and how are we going to ask for the responsibility of the board of directors of the Privatisation Fund who also don't know what's putting these people on their souls, which is why they're incriminating, what's been done by the wicked, what's got them arrested for? The investigation must continue with the institutions responsible for the investigation. We need to ensure the preconditions to go all the way, to the end. And finally let it clear up, so after the investigation is over, we'll be able to talk about whose responsibility it is, but to God and to whose credit this action is, Maestro. But no one has the right to deny the merits of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which through a legislative proposal for new laws and legal amendments, has ensured through the insurance of material assets and money that these institutions can finally carry out their work in quality. And that's why the Maestro action, even though the government's members didn't know about it, is a great victory for this government. Where the Maestro action will take us, where the investigation will take place, I don't know. It's safe that he's not like a man, I'm not comfortable listening these days to your say I'm going to call some people, I'm not comfortable looking in that context your name. But my dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am completely asleep, standing before you and watching you. And when the investigation is over, I will also go before you and ask that we discuss both the responsibility and the merits of the results of the investigation and the fight against crime and corruption at the Privatisation Fund. Where the investigation takes us, we'll see and wait. Maybe I'm responsible to myself the most. The responsible one is now thinking that when I took over the position of the chairman of the board of directors of the fund, I did not do what seems logical to me now. I did not order a comprehensive and comprehensive investigation into what decisions were taken in the mandate before the term of office of this Government at the Privatisation Fund, how many of these decisions were legally founded? I did not deal with the past but looked ahead and tried to establish control mechanisms that would enable quality decision-making and continuation of privatisation, which must aim at raising the competitive capacity of each individual society to be privatised. If I'd done a comprehensive analysis again, it was hard for me to write criminal charges as a man. I'm just not so organized. But I'm set up on the inside so I'm publicly talking about what I don't think was in the Privatisation Fund and every other institution, which was wrong. So I will speak publicly and repeat something that I have already said for this speaker in Parliament. I want to talk publicly about irregularities in "Viktor Lenc", I want to talk publicly about irregularities by myself and by my opinion in privatisation and "ITAS" from Ivanac and "Ljepe" from Lepoglava, and also about the insufficiently transparent way of privatising the shares of "Agromeđimurje". I would also like to say that it was inadequate and illegal to confiscate the property "May 3rd" at the refurbishment of the shipyard in 2001. And it was also non-transparent to sell a part of that property later. I would also like to say that the settlement of the part of the Obligations "Brodotrogia" and "3 May" in that recovery programme has also not been done sufficiently transparently. I am also interested today in the reasons why these companies' obligations had to be offset by the sale of only certain, precisely specific companies or by transferring to Landens Bank shares of some companies in proportion to 5 million marks of debt, the shares of "Oliniks" worth 10 million marks are given. I speak publicly of it and call upon the institutions to continue their investigation based on these words. Since today we are somehow surrounded by comics, cartoons at the time of my schooling, elementary school education I remember some comics and I remember characters who always had superhuman strength and won everything, so I remember the comic book about Mirk and Slavko, about two very powerful characters. Today, I remember that sentence, Slavko, watch the bullet. Thank you, Mirko. You saved my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91446	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91447	I would like to see and believe that there will be a cartoon in which we will say Štef, Joža, Bara, Ratko, Mirko, Slavko is watching Usko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91448	Thank you. ... 7 Correction of incorrect allegations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91449	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I'd like to correct is the incorrect quote when Mr. Polancec said that all the tenders were public and domestic and foreign and were published there and that they were published in front of public notebooks, in front of the media. But I would ask him what he said was public why the contracts weren't public. No contract was made public. If that were the case then you'd know what was both silver and how that hotel was sold. And how it stands today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91450	Honored representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91451	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Deputy Prime Minister Polancec saying that new rules on transparency on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund have been introduced. I remind him that recently a few days ago he referred me to an answer to the parliamentary question why the government did not publish an agreement signed by the Orko privatisation group, i.e. on the public private partnership in Sunny Hvar, when a contract appeared on the Internet that says that the Sunny Hvar was privatised, not that a PPP agreement was concluded. I'm asking the government why she didn't publish it. Deputy Prime Minister Polancec says he won't even publish it because the ORKO group forbids it. And we're talking about some kind of transparency? No, dear Vice President, we're not talking about transparency, we're talking about hiding the contract. If you were really transparent then every year in this Croatian Parliament you would respect the law and submit a report on the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Unfortunately, this report has not been submitted in this House for a year. And yet to deny you in one claim, which is that no minister is familiar with this action. Apparently, the first minister, or prime minister, was familiar with this action. And you yourself said on Croatian television that the government had not replaced the vice president of the Ivan Gotovina Fund in order not to interfere with an investigation that resulted in the arrests of that famous Saturday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91452	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91453	So you obviously knew, too, and you lied to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91454	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91455	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the current chairman of the Fund's Management Board, said the government has made assumptions about this action. And there's a lot more that the government has done. And I will only warn you in the Croatian public that there have been conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 15 December 2005, here they are, at 9 points, at 9 points, at 9 points which the Government has not quite realised any of that. Let me even read one of the points, 9th point where it is said: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament a new Law on Privatisation and the Law on Public Private Partnership.". As you know it wasn't done, except it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91456	Next Correction
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91457	...a very good prime minister said he would abolish the Fund, and I don't know by what law he would abolish the Fund. And he...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91458	Next correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91459	Mr. President, I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister, who boasted that the government had secured the conditions for this action, Maestro. The first thing to say is action, or Operation Maestro, proves not only that it is not sanctioned, is not sanctioned legality in conversion and privatisation. They are, however, continued. This conclusion that Jaksa Marasovic read was a proposal from the Croatian party of rights club. Out of the thousands of 556 cases, the State Audit that was overseeing, a thousand 481 found illegality. Nothing's done about it. Neither ex-government nor current. We offer the law twice to sanction it. Now we're offering a third time. If you're willing, then support that law and we'll settle the corruption issue in privatisation, not empty straw to be beaten here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91460	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91461	It is an incorrect claim that the government is responsible for the "Maestro" action if what Mr. Polancec said is true that neither he nor any of the ministers had any idea about the action. How can you be responsible for something you have no idea about? Look, the action was conducted by the police, she didn't tell her minister, she kept it a secret from the minister. The government could be responsible for maybe not knowing anything about it. Because they're also... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91462	Next, respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91463	So I'm correcting the Deputy Prime Minister's claim. I mean, when someone gets their hands dirty, they try to get it dirty and everything around them. A particularly beautiful Lepoglava which is mentioned in "Open" and today is bought from a bankruptcy council, it was bought, please, from a bankruptcy council in 16.7.2013. '93. The year, '93. A year. [[Intruder: You haven't even learned to take it yet.]] And another piece of information, 2004. The State Audit has made an audit report. If there were irregularities... 2007 Why is he waiting?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91464	And respected representative Ljubica Lalić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91465	I'm correcting Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's misstatement in listing the so-called so-called. the non-transparentity of privatisation. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, you should list non-transparent privatisations all day, because privatisation in Croatia did not begin in 2000, but began in the 1990s, and the non-transparency and illegality were determined by the state audit and pointed to the illegality of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and you, as chairman of the Management Board, were wrong not to return to the past term, but to not return to the foundations of both this Assembly and Croatian audits and sanctioned those who did so from the 1990s to today. Instead of sanctioning these people, you are not even yourself, but this government has returned to the post of vice president of the one who was therefore relieved of his duties in 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91466	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91467	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ministers, Honorable Mr. Representatives. When a man looks at these cartoons from this position, then it's high time to disband us, but come on. Like everyone before me, so I'm going to say that there's no one who won't welcome the action of the State's Attorney's Office, the SCIK, the MUP, the SOA, and there's no one who won't say anything at last and what happened really isn't a small thing and there's no one who won't conclude it too that it can't stop at that. This "Maestro" action is by far the most serious attempt to stand on the neck, let's take a segment of this converted crime that has begun to take forms of organised crime. Here we read, we learn the action lasted more than a year, more than 1.3m euros were spent in action, the action stretched to 5 counties, dressed agents participated. The point of the action is to expose, clearly by mixing, by state property, by providing confidential information, by receiving bribes, etc. What is most important is that through one such action, Croatian institutions can legally, under quotes, carry out actual revisions of conversion and privatisation. Such actions may result in the return of the share and alienated assets to the government portfolio, and all those involved may fear such actions. Such actions, even without change, the Constitution can lead to a way that the acquisition of property does not convalitate, i.e. That what has been acquired from the beginning cannot be strengthened over time. Unfortunately, I doubt it will go in that direction, I doubt that this or that future government will have the courage to bite into that privatization apple, and I think that in all this far from the truth, it's not Royce when he's told himself that whoever's in the pit, he's in the pit. Yesterday I said the institutions in this country are not one ministry of tourism, culture, etc. Under quotes, it's those who employ a thousand, two, five, 10, or 20,000 people in this country. The institutions in this country under quotes are not cultural societies, universities, etc., but those that issue or single out tens of millions of kunas per month to advertise their products, etc. Part of the policy today is dependent on large-scale capital. Maybe the least I.D.S. All parties are being financed by someone. For example. The home fund was given to the IDS 100 thousand kuna for the 2003 elections. Others more, but the IDS in Poreč managed to slow down the book over 200 hectares of tourist land above the Riviera and opened 2005. "Liburni" and despite the shift of Damir Ostovic and despite the transfer of 25% of shares to the city of Opatija, I am 100% sure that this decision on a breakthrough, claims between the government and SN Holding had to be made by someone in the government, not Ostovic. Now I want to know if anyone in that direction will go all the way. Will those privatisations cancel out here? I doubt it. Whether or not, and that is the question, this action will remain only at the current administration of the Privatisation Fund or extend to the former administrations, both by 2003 and by 2000 clearly, etc. If, I say, there's more crime after the fund today, he was still the mother of all these robberies and look at what's going on in public enterprises. If he were part of the leadership of these public enterprises, and if they had left him the property, they would be grateful to us at this hour to the grave. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is a crime scene said President Mesic. It is clearly not good that leading politicians leave the yachts of one tycoon, fight others. It is not good that they are blessed to this Luke Rajic, and that those who have failed to persecute. However, the point is that no conversion of privatisation despite this data from God Kovacevic is simply not legal and that the state audit confirmed such a situation, successfully and amnesty, failed only to show and that is the point. And whoever claims otherwise is wrong. I will repeat, this Croatian Privatisation Fund, I have said more than once, it was simply the uterus of converted crime. It's this hardware, and the software as the president says, it's the ones who proposed the laws, it's the pifs, it's the holdins, it's the big tycoons that control part of the policy, part of the media, the banks, etc. There's power today. These people who have this real financial power Croatia is today small. They must invest, they must pedal as Kutle said he must ride a bike, which is the easiest, clear through the Croatian Privatisation Fund to sell the rest of Croatia at this time. I'm also reading Mr. Hebrang who took Mr. Gotan to the trust fund. It's like a man of great reference just said. I agree. But says Mr. Hebrang, I was surprised by his decision to go to one state body now, and this one, on the other hand, convinced him that he wanted to meet the state administration, to meet new people. Clearly, those were all floscules, instead of someone asking him a question, man, you're making 50,000 kuna today, and what's a woman gonna tell you tomorrow when you come home with a salary of 10 or 11 thousand kuna? To be clear, the same thing happened with this Starčević, who came from the TDR administration and did... for one company, and Primosten for the HYPO bank where it later entered that bank that she took over today... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who finally saw you go from 50 grand to 10 grand. And you know why these people came to the fund? Because they knew what was being done in the fund and knew what they would simply do, and therefore these four Croatian ministers are politically responsible. No one has said criminally, and they are politically responsible for this because they have not prevented such work. Look at our assistants at the fund that those departments wear, what watches, what cars they drive, how their apartments are arranged. And I assure you that for 10 or 15 thousand kunas, you simply can't. To be honest, I don't think the president of the state should be asking for the resignations of those ministers as a part of the media, mostly in the river. President Mesic should ask that the government go on now, not to stop, and then when it does the most, it is a Croatian curse, and then it will leave the government. And that's good because after that, someone new will come along and do even more. I finally admit, this government has freed us from The Hague mortgages, so it's not like anything happened when the crime took place. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is based, Gotovina, Glavas, the new Norac hearing, Ademi, Petrac is in prison, Zagorec is probably waiting for extradition even though it is interesting that his lawyers now read today that it is not about abuse of position because we had resolved him in 2000 and that after he was resolved, he alienated those $5 million in diamonds, and that when it comes to stealing, then it's about antiquity. It's strange, but it would still be good if he came to Croatia. It wasn't easy to admit about it, but you see instead of now the government's shares are growing they're falling and a similar thing is happening today in Slovenia. Janša comes out with the claim that he was tapped by Drnovšek and Rob, but neither does he after that finding grow shares nor popularity. But what's scary, which would really be someone to answer for, is if Jansa and our prime minister had negotiated 2004 incidents in the Piran Bay or the Savudrian Valley. And another one's interesting. All the ministers say, we didn't know about the action. So it also makes someone responsible, and the truth is that the government was giving money for action and that no one in the government should have asked why the money was giving. It may be a sign that our institutions are autonomous, but I am of the opinion that neither the chief of police can be excluded from such action, nor the prime minister, nor the president of the state. In which country they are investigated to say that they are destroying institutions without the country's first people knowing about it. The first people of the country must know, they must not be clearly on the way of intelligence to the State's Attorney's office, but they must know because what was going on or what was going on in the fund happened because of their advocacy of these people in that fund, in fact, abuse of these institutions, even though someone will say that the inaction of Croatian ministers allowed that robbery. What is the point, however, should be reorganised or better said after the elections to reform a whole series of these public institutions. Without that, we will not get rid of an octopus that has largely captured us financially, and soon if nothing happens, it will be political. How is it possible to do that? Mr. Cardinal Bozanic speaks of subsidiarity, the power to bring as close as possible to the people. I'm clearly in favour of decentralisation which might come to the same, but I'm afraid any government has or will have that courage to implement it. If someone's happy and I'm done with it, for this "maestro" action, then it's up to us at the IDS club. first because soon the assassination attempt on Ed Kosa will be lit up, and this happened because the town of Poreč did not want to give in to the influence of the Croatian octopus by protecting the public interest, and the people of the government know very well, secondly, the way Zagorec works, but also some other companies that were trading public information, it is more and more known how it was done. Likewise, this case, when we look at it from Istria, raises the question of how to finance this handball championship. In 2008, Zagreb received 100m euros, Poreč for municipal infrastructure instead of money for road construction, swimming pools, schools and handball halls was to belong to 24 hectares of land and I hope it will not be disputed. It is also interesting that as undercover agents there is a Kuzmanic from Pula, he came 13 years ago from Split in Pula and another builder from Rovinj who is also not Istrian. Why Istria, and I said that the action covered 5 counties to that extent is interesting. Look, I said it yesterday, I'll do it again. Industrial production in Istria in the first place 34% regardless of what everyone experiences as a tourist destination. The second place is 29%, tourism in total income participates with 10%, and this year construction and real estate will for the first time exceed the income in Istria from tourism which is 40% of Croatian tourism and which earns seven times the profit of all Croatian tourism combined. And for the end. Why did the people at the Fund get all worked up? Nothing ever happened to anyone today, and the lie is that four or five or ten years ago it was different. It was the same thing, far worse was 93 or 94 than it was today. They knew the same thing that the Fund would not live forever and that it had to be transformed, and finally these people in the Fund always had someone's political support. And I've said it many times, but it's not about being a minister in this country today, it's about being a man in the Fund, even if it's a privatisation secretary. It's not about becoming a representative. It's about this warehouse in the stock reserves. It's not about being mayor. It's about being a driver. It's not about being president of the state. It's about taking over a public enterprise. It is simply a matter, and there is no supervision, ministers instead of overseeing the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Mr. Bebić was selling buns, and the vice presidents of the Fund were recalibrating and putting money without any fences in their pocket so they wouldn't even know how rich they were. This Matekovic or Matanovic, I don't know, has reportedly estranged 2m euros as far as possible. The cashman says he doesn't know how rich and no one knows anything. Now it's clear, the investigation will show what's been going on here, but I think there's a lot of things that wouldn't be talked about in public. I'm not sure independent individuals would be a better solution for monitoring committees like that. Just because these people are independent of the Fund, they all put their money in their pocket at sixteen and eventually they might get to the head of someone in politics. But when supervision does not work, whoever is responsible for this surveillance must suffer political consequences. That similar things happen in all the funds, all the transition countries, that's clear. Well, even in Germany, we've had the same one case, but once again I'm going to repeat for the end I think there's a... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91468	You've been announcing this for the last five minutes. So now it's gone... [[/Intruder: What?]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91469	What do you mean, it's gone?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91470	Well, there isn't, so you see this lantern here, right? The chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, cancelled today's thematic session of the Committee, which was scheduled to take place at 13:30 today. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations. First, honourable representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91471	Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It's very difficult to correct Mr. Cain because in the nightmare of thinking it's difficult to put together a single order. And it's about me making two things right. First, he is a master of political marketing because each time he starts and ends his discussion that Istria is the richest, best export, most tourism, most money. But then we must explain how when we are the richest region in Europe that the salaries of people in Istria are less than the national average?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91472	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91473	... Secondly, I would like to say that he showed and wanted to say here that IDS is innocent and that Poreč has actually made a great contribution to resolving the issue of corruption in Istria. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] But of course he forgets to tell those companies and companies that went missing in three years 2000-2003. It's about 20 companies. What about the coast or the land sale? What about the Arena tourist? What about, and what about what you see is he's fantastic when he comes to Istria he's fantastically attacking representative government and government and he said he's going to do everything he can to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91474	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91475	And on the other hand, he says they've touched both red and black. And where are your reds?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91476	Okay, the Honorable Representative, Pero Kovacevic, is the second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91477	... Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain's. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] The first concerns this part of why would Istra be interested in Operation Maestro? Because of the fact that municipalities and towns in the coast were registered on forest land that is state-owned. Afterwards, this forest land has been dealt with by various banks and institutions and with its likenesses by individuals from the IDS, I'm not saying that the entire IDS. And after that, they changed urban plans and made it possible to do what was done. Speaking of the fund, he forgot to tell his colleague Cain the important thing is that these individuals from the Fund who today, in custody, made it possible to transfer property to alleged customers without paying what they had to pay and that's where it all started. That's the doorknob 22. That's what we said five times in the Parliament, but it wasn't nobody, he didn't do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91478	This second was, this second was a correction of oblivion. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91479	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to correct my colleagues, Cain. At the beginning, counterpart Cain said that turned crime had begun to take forms of organised crime now in the Fund. That's not true, that's not true. He didn't start it. Complete conversion into Croatia is organised crime. We're paying for it now, we'll keep paying for it. Next, colleague Cain said that these Assistant Directors of the Fund came to much less pay because they knew what they were going to do? That's partly true. Not only did they know what they were going to do but they knew they could do it. With these people on the Board of Directors of the Fund who either don't know or can't or may not protect the state-owned people's property they've been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91480	Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91481	Mr Cain said in his speech that Maestro's action is a blow to only one segment of organised crime in Croatia. It's only partially true. It is true that it is a blow to one of the main centres of power and the source of corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91482	Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91483	Well, it's an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague who said the government didn't know and that no one in the government knew why the funds were being given? On the contrary. The government knew and ministers knew that the funds were given and directed by the government's decision to fight corruption and, of course, in support of the national anti-corruption plan that the same government had made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91484	And the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91485	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Representative Cain said in his presentation: Ministers were selling buns instead of monitoring the work at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Well, that's not exactly a quote. Ministers have done their job responsibly and honorably, and Mr. Caine is not correct in insulting the expressions of our minister. Well, it would be nice if you could explain to us what it is to sell bunnies. For example, I haven't heard what that expression means in my life?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91486	Okay. I sell bunnies, but I can't comment on it. Your Honor, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Management Board at the end of his address to the Parliament, said, "I confess, I may have made a mistake when I took over the office of the chairman of the Management Board for not ordering an inventory of all the moves that have been made in the Fund." Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the chairman of the board of directors is not that you may have made a mistake in that. I do not know if you know, and I will now have to read to you the third point of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion of 15 December 2005 which was proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. "The Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to, on the basis of all the reports of the State Audit Office, 1540 legal entities held by the Office in the audit that have identified irregularities and illegalities in conversion and privatisation. And reports by the State's Attorney's Office shall be initiated as an authorised legal person of appropriate judicial and administrative proceedings in order to recover illegally acquired property benefits from natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation." Who at the Croatian Privatisation Fund? Well, I guess the board of directors or the president of the Privatisation Fund, anyway, and that's why we claim that the Management Board has failed to carry out its tasks, which is why it's put up there. And another quote from the request for discussion and a vote of confidence and when you spoke, I expected you to resolve the dilemma that exists. You have not mentioned this in a single word, and I remind again the Management Board by law is obliged to submit a financial report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for each business year. The government's act confirms that report. It's an article 12 quote. The law on the Privatisation Fund. I ask what government meetings the Fund's financial report, the Management Board of the Fund is under discussion and what is the government's decision for 2004, 2005 and 2006 on the occasion of these reports. On the Internet, I found the latest report and government decision in 2003 for 2002. Afterwards, no sign of a single report, nor did the government issue an act, its decision on these submitted reports. I ask if the Management Board has submitted reports and what decisions the Government has made on these reports for 2004, 2005 and 2006. The first part of the government vice president's statement where he admitted he was wrong to what he didn't do and what the Assembly asked him for evidence that this request for a hearing was not a gunshot to the blank, but a shot to the srid. And even after this reply on the financial statements of the Management Board and the government's decisions regarding these reports, it will be seen whether a head will indeed be affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91488	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91489	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Whether you like it or not, but after this action in Croatia, there will be nothing more like it. Mrs. Pusic, you're otherwise known as funny, so laugh at this. Another thing, no one else in this country will decide so easily to take corruption. Thirdly, this government has, above all, legally and materially created the conditions for this action to take place, legislatively. Mrs. Lalic, four laws have been changed. Mr. Bajic himself told you that the Law on State's Attorneyship has not been amended to make this action impossible. But look. The panic reigned at the moment when it did not know how long Maestro would play, whether or not some other singers and players would be in the story. Panic also prevailed at the time he went budget surveillance into one county for some famous projects. The panic has taken hold of a series of things. Also, I was a parliamentary representative here, so much for the teaching Mrs. Pusic had said, and then I took over and stood up for order in public finances. Yes, Shuker's lesson, Mrs Pusic, is also a state treasurer's single account and paid all the bills in the state budget. And now tell me one thing, how can someone make a decision that 2 billion and 100, 200 papers will pay for a future period, and the State Budget Act makes it clear that the government has to make a decision. And I'm saying, we're gonna do it, so somebody's gonna pay in the future. Or, let's remember the story that's been burdening HDZ for a long time and imposing on the HDZ 200 wealthy families. And in the last session of the Assembly, the HDZ Club filed a request to the government, so finally, you're in power, you go out with those 200 wealthy families, so let's see who are finally the lucky ones who are supposed to be able to get rich. You know what answer came to the club of representatives after a few insistences, that there is no methodology to determine that. You see, Mrs Pusic, unlike you who claimed there was no methodology we created the preconditions for state institutions to do their job, not for them to be on the side of ministers or anyone directed where they would go. I hope that this action will be reviewed by the Income Act, not by the claims charged. I hope so. I remember it was Vice-President Arlovic when he explained the extension of the law, because by a certain time it was necessary to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on these settlements where I will not say that they did not have an honest intensification. Today, however, we have a great deal of problems for these settlements to be made because they are inconclusive. And a series of other things. When we talk about political responsibility, it is always the same no matter what year it happened and for the mandates that the Government took place. If the government makes one decision, and then after that, cancel the head of the trust's board of directors, in fact, the man goes away, the other comes and no one has any more political responsibilities. At that time, she did not need political responsibilities when the government itself admitted that something had happened and that certain shifts had to be carried out. Or in what way it's three years the paid works are now somewhere at approximately 4 billion nominal shares and the rights were somewhere in a billion, a hundred and two hundred. This should be seen no matter who's inside or who's involved in it, because there's no incriminating action there's no political party behind it, right in front of it. She has a name and a last name. So there's an incriminating shop behind it with immoral people and dishonest people doing it. There's no political party. But at times when there are no more arguments for real, let's move life topics to some irrational things. Today, we can mention a number of things that have happened in the past and will likely be mentioned during today’s debate. But it's very interesting that some people take the right to call themselves thieves without any evidence. There, above all, could have been seen in the same way as Mr. Cacic on a TV show last night, and you and your colleagues are also coming out here today. It would be very interesting for the Croatian public to see on the basis of which you have raised a loan of 6 million kuna for your party. In stock you have given the right that you will receive in the Croatian Parliament. So who guarantees that you will have one representative in the next session of the Parliament? But then how could you take out a loan? But then how could you have borrowed a loan... But that's the problem, Mrs. Pusic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If any Croatian entrepreneur with such insecure incomes had asked for credit, he would not have gotten it. And you got it as a political party. So there's the problem. There's a problem, Mrs. Pusic. You can't call others when you're looking for one thing. But if Stef or Jura had come, which craftsman needs a million kunas to buy a machine and hire five people, he wouldn't have gotten that loan. And you got 6 million credits on behalf of what you wrote, actually gave the cell to your future incomes from, based on your share in the state budget, based on the number of records. And that's not right. Why can't someone win and someone can't win? And they could always pick me up and show me. However, the tax number of dear friends will reveal many things. And many will find it difficult to show what great abilities some of the several thousand, hundreds of thousands of kunas have been since the beginning of the '90s. brought to several tens of millions of euros in assets in 2006 And that's why I publicly invite you all here, to support the adoption of a tax number so that many of us can clear up and expose ourselves. But I repeat, this government has created a prerequisite to maintain this action and this government has created the opportunity to never again be in Croatia as it once was. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91490	Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91491	Your Honor, Mr. President! Mr. Shuker, in his recognizable style, transferred the ball to the other side of the network and thus injured Article 210. A Rules of Procedure that says we should stick to the agenda. It's on the agenda to trust this government. On the agenda are not loans to the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91492	Moving a ball over the network isn't exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is such a broad topic that when it comes to corruption, responsibility. And a second violation of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I mean, I had the same injury as Mr. Vuljanic. The topic of this debate is the Government's confidence in the state of the Privatisation Fund, and no loans from any political party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91494	Okay. Then the corrections of incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91495	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct a few allegations, but I'm going to start with this last nonsense Mr. Shucker said, which is that the tax number will introduce order. You have the number now, you have the JMBG by which you recognize each of us. If you wanted to do something, you would have passed our law, obliged the IRS to question every citizen of this country for their money. The tax number is as farce as this is all you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91496	Second correction by respected deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91497	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad Mr. Shucker is consistent and consistent, waterfall words, turning chicken and changing subject. However, let me also correct some incorrect allegations in this changed subject. First. 200 wealthy families are completely ridiculous and absurd demands. List 200 wealthy families. It was not about the appointed 200 wealthy families, but about the model of economic development "trickl down" effect of 200 wealthy families, of which then allegedly the wealth would cross elsewhere. This was otherwise Tudjman's model of economic development of Croatia, which of course completely failed and largely ruined as a model of economic development for the country. That's what 200 rich families were about. And as for your statement of credit to the bank. Well, it wasn't the HNS that assessed the bank's risk, it was the bank's assessment. And since, of course, we neither have nor intend to use the Croatian Privatisation Fund to finance our pre-election campaign as opposed to you, then we must do it transparently with private banks. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91498	And, peace please. Third Amendment Honored Representative Happy Ferencach.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91499	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Shucker's incorrect claim that the Croatian People's Party has taken out a loan based on illegal guarantees. Mr. Shuker! You're still claiming after three weeks what you and I talked about and showing your ignorance of what's fascinating, as the finance minister is ignorant of the rules. So, this House has made a decision based on 11 MPs as many HNS as it has, to get 3 and a half million kunas of compensation as soon as we apply for the election. In addition, any bank may lend credit based on its estimates and risks to whoever it wishes. We've assessed... Therefore, she estimated the bank could grant a loan. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're in charge of these loans, we're in charge of our campaigns, and we're not looking for this kind of thing that you're dealing with at Broadsplete and Privatisation. And you're taking money for your campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91500	The Honorable Representative... Order of the Minister! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Nenad Stazic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91501	It's an incorrect claim from Minister Shuker that there's no one here we call a thief. We seek political responsibility, and the thieves here in this debate were mentioned by Prime Minister Sanader when he said that thieves no longer sleep peacefully in this country. That's the kind of statement I'm surprised because he didn't see Minister Cobankovic who was so unsleeped that he fell asleep even during a speech by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91502	There, now that's such a correction. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91503	Your Honor, Mr. President! I'd like to correct a series of incorrect allegations from Minister Shuker why is it inconceivable for him to lend HNS to his campaign? Well, because HDZ takes as much as it needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91504	HSP's respected representative, Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91505	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It is obvious that today's debate, the SDP and HNS Trust Initiative, is still taking place in an atmosphere different from the previous privatisation debates. It's hard to remember how much everything is in our Parliament, I've been in mandates since '92. the year to date, any debate on privatisation, numerous parliamentary conclusions, oaths to fight crime, etc. But unfortunately, the results were absolutely nothing. I will remind you that even the elections before the previous parliamentary elections, so those famous elections on January 3rd 2000 were in some way both won and detonated by the campaign that was led just and since the coalition that won the elections that will be dealt with by the robbery and robbery in privatisation and conversion, that the money that has been taken out of Croatia will be returned, therefore, that the privatisation model will change. So there was really so much I would say an aggressive even campaign that finally determined the elections as they were then and determined. However, I recall that during the period of this rule, neither the Privatisation Act was changed, but just the opposite, in the same model, the same way with the same Fund, the privatisation in Croatia was practically the same methodology, the same campaign. That's why this Maestro action is more than valuable. Not even taking credit for who's responsible for this action I don't think you should be giving special laurels to the services that do your job, but obviously that there's created enough one critical mass so that the independence of individual institutions and the political atmosphere that you can go into one such project that's certain for every praise but which, always has one but who's just practically opened the santa, the tip of the ice santa, and underneath now you just need to see what's going to happen all or worse, what's going to happen. In fact, we as a party and as a club support this action "Maestro" but of course we want to emphasize to the gentlemen, the Croatian Government and to all of us, of course, that it will be nothing unless "Maestro" is deeply affected. But not only that, it is not an intensities, I hope, and the purpose of this action is to expose the perpetrators of the malfeasance of crime and to adequately base them on the independence of the Croatian judiciary and sanction them, but how to correct the injustices that the privatisation process has done to Croatia. According to our position in Croatia there are two great injustices that must be corrected in Croatian society for our sake I would say political mental hygiene in our country, so that is the attitude towards the Homeland War, but it is not today's topic. The second is a correction to the privatisation injustices that absolutely all citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel. Therefore, the correcting of these injustices is the task of all of us, so the Croatian Parliament, the current government, the future government, because the only punishment of those who have committed the crime, we have to gamble the trust I would say to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government that has been putting together, has brought professionals who had to carry out privatisation processes, that we have opted for privatisation in Croatian society do not need to repeat why. We won't do anything if we don't do everything to correct the mistakes that, at least part of the mistakes made by the privatisation processes in Croatia. And how can you do that? We have already given as a club several times in the parliamentary procedure and debate of the Law on sanctioning the result of conversion and privatisation and offered certain models, but apparently there was not enough critical mass, I say politically and each other, to move into the process. I believe that now one big step forward has been taken and that we can expect that, following this action, Maestro, such a mood will also be created in the public and between us political parties, that such a bill will also be adopted, which would invalidate eclative examples of illegality in privatisation, because illegal legal work cannot become a valid legal job. And in, and in other cases where there were violations and understatement in privatisation to go to the property clearance. So we've given that law twice in procedure so far, now it's the third time in procedure. And on the trail of what I said, Minister Schuker expects support for the introduction of the tax number, we agree with that, but we expect the parliamentary majority to support this bill too, because even then the "Maestro" action would have its full meaning. So we decided to tear down corruption in Croatian society, which really caught the pores of God, ask where everything and at all levels. But not only the calculation of the corruption, but the correction of the injustice that the Croatian people are suffering today because of the privatisation process. It is important here to mention that when we talk about political responsibility that it must not be relativated. So as is the responsibility and former government because of its non-engagement in crime, the change of the privatisation model, we must also refer to the prime minister's sentence which said: "It is true that someone is not a thief because he is a member of a political party, but because he is a dishonest man.". It's absolutely fine when we look at it from the position of individuality of committing a crime. But it is not in such a way that one who is in power has a responsibility to appoint certain functions has a responsibility for at least some minimum responsibility. If I am responsible as Prime Minister, I shall appoint a minister in the Government, and this minister shall once again, at lower levels, appoint... officials, that there must be a system of responsibility, because then it's full relativisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really don't get it, if that's the right thing to do, that I don't deal with him now that the Fund's Supervisory Board really hasn't met at all. Look, I wasn't on the boards, so I don't know what it looks like. But I do believe that the Supervisory Board has the function and role of overseeing the work of those involved in the work of certain companies, companies, I don't know as in the case of the Fund, and I don't know what kind of atmosphere and climate was in the Fund that was practically not called here all these years of the Supervisory Board. For example, I will, so we will probably now, I hope through the action "Maestro" many of us and learn how, what has been done in these malfeasances and manipulations. And I'm going to take an example of one in Osijek that the action of the Deputy Prime Minister prevents one serious injustice for our city, here it is,... So I like to hear that and that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone will commend you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So two years ago in Osijek was launched, the Fund launched a tender for the sale of the most valuable land in the city of Osijek. It's so-called. The popular "Second Hole" is called. She's everything but a hole. It's worth somewhere around 10 million kunas now according to estimates. So in the summer period, in July 2005, the Fund put on a land tender that was not a fund. So a land that isn't a fund, which was registered as the owner of that land based on counterfeits that... It was delivered to call for a tender and then we were able to intervene. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Deputy Prime Minister who then took over the practical management of the Fund and Mr Ivesic, who only about a few days earlier came to the head of the Fund, stopped the sale. Otherwise, the price is... 27 million kunas were reached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were later in a dispute with the same Fund and we received a first-degree verdict that gives the right to the City of Osijek own that land. If we hadn't been awake, we hadn't seen a particle being sold, while we saw what a particle it was. It is the most valuable land in the City of Osijek in a truly illegal and insidious way, the city of Osijek would be damaged by tens of millions of kunas. And later, while you were proving and arguing, God asked you what would happen. Because of this, and such situations were very obvious that had not been seen and that had happened but we do not need to speculate about it now. There are also those who should do it. That is why we believe it is important to find political forces and wills to correct the injustices in privatisation because the Croatian people and the Croatian public absolutely expect us to do so. The banks mentioned here, when Minister Schuker spoke about this loan, I am not entering the loan the HNS requested but in general about banks in Croatia. It is too important for the government to put the privatisation of banks on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament, because, as it is, sparrows are on the border singing about what the Fund is, and this is ultimately confirmed that the Fund is what it is. So lay crime either. So now I don't want to accuse any of us, I hope all the employees in the Fund and the people who work there but those who are responsible, who will eventually have the judicial authorities determine it, but have confirmed that what the public considered someone... The fact that this is now proven in certain investigations is how the Croatian public knows well, and we all know that Croatian banks have been recovered from Croatian taxpayers' money and were then sold at multiple prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to remind myself, the President of the Croatian Parliament is sitting behind me, that in one of his great actions, I think it was the mandate of 1995 when we were in the Parliament, with 40 parliamentary deputies where I also signed that interpretation, that interpretation rather than one request to conduct a debate in the Croatian Parliament on banks where the President himself spoke of the fact that they were the victims of crime. Today's Parliament president spoke of it. Unfortunately, and this noble action was quickly hitchhiked and stopped because there was obviously no political climate and will for the matter to end. So here is the opportunity when we opened the story of the Fund, when Maestro, when the "Maestro" action started to stay out of the responsibility and the story of the banks, because I regret to say that in choosing the re-election of management in the Croatian National Bank, we remained as a party alone in voting around and the governor and others as management and this is the same management with some cosmetic changes that are responsible for the sale of Croatian banks in a situation where today practically almost entirely the Croatian economy is held by someone else and we can't manage it in such a way that we certainly manage to have a greater impact on that work. Just the other way around. It was the decisions of the Croatian Parliament that gave the central bank full autonomy not only but full status and irresponsibility in relations with the Croatian Parliament. The state audit hasn't entered any bank privatisations. Even today it cannot enter because the state audit does not enter into the business of the Croatian National Bank and these are the things I hold for, and I suppose if we had the opportunity to get some results that would also be very rudely surprising and shocking. I will therefore slowly conclude the presentation on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. We support the Maestro action. We don't think there's any need to vote for mistrust to the Croatian government. Perhaps it would be wise for the ministers themselves, who have been appointed by the Prime Minister, to have a mandate at their disposal that would certainly not respect those resignations. But the most important thing is that this action doesn't stop. And that its ultimate goal is not only to discover and punish the work of criminals who during both war and porn really robbed the Croatian people and today they act as respected entrepreneurs and I don't know what they don't. That's where it's supposed to go to the end. That's where it's supposed to be. They give lectures about everything, about democracy and about management and so on. But when it is revealed, it is revealed that it is then going to correct these injustices according to the model we have suggested. He can be modified. But it is important to create political will and climate that what was illegal cannot become illegal. What was underestimated was also being paid to pay the value or to be co-owner in the part that was actually paid. And after that we can really say that we decided... Not only with corruption crime but that we have decided to correct one of the biggest injustices in Croatian society, which is privatisation processes and the sale of the Croatian economy in a way completely unfair and incorrect towards the people who have suffered great sacrifices to achieve their freedom and independence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the state of Croatia is also created to enjoy the economic opportunities of the same country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91506	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91507	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers. I remember for a long time, and as much as I remember it was said in that system and in this one about myth and corruption as the great evil and that and this present society, so to speak. So for years and decades, there's been talk of bribery and corruption. What was done besides fine and fine speeches that caused public hope? It all ended up like onions and water. Nothing. So the journey around the world begins with the first step, and the fight against bribery and corruption begins with the first step. And they don't have the right to talk about how they should have done this or what while they were in the government, and now suddenly they start talking and giving lectures on what to do? And if they just happened to go back to the government again, they'd talk like they used to. However, I have the impression that I have the irresistible impression that some people have been caught by fear. Fear and panic. Yes, it is. That's what you can see and feel. So something's going on, and now they're a little excited and nervous and that's what they're showing. I know that these actions that started and far from being something that's over has just begun. We also expect what some have said and deepening and expanding these measures of the rule of law. I know that a very interesting topic has been taken away and an important topic for the election, and that anxiety is also shown through it. It's hard to take all this. I know it's hard to handle. It's hard to bear many of the government's successes, especially what this action started out like this. But you'll have to accept. You will have to accept, because who knows where it will end, whether in this or that government, this or those ministers, members and chairmans of the board, the board's board of directors. Because we can say that these ministers are members and vice-presidents of the Board of Directors of the Fund and we are not sure and we do not know. I simply don't want to argue anything about who might eventually come under the rule of law, not the government and government bodies, the rule of law. So we don't even know the main credibility of this action is that the ministers didn't know. Because they don't need to know, they need to know the state's attorney's office, they need to know the police, they need to know the BOLO, they need to know the security services and all the other bodies that this state has authorized under the law to run all these things. So, in my opinion, the credibility of this action began with the fact that the ministers didn't know, not that it was a lack of this action. That's the advantage of this action. So don't show yourself nervous. Everything will come to its place. Everything will come to its place, and if anyone thinks it's been four or five or six years, they won't come to your agenda. And they might come from ten, fifteen years old and it creates anxiety, creates anxiety in all of our society, you know. And in order to have political will and to show it effectively, appropriate laws have to be drawn up by the government to propose amendments and amendments to the law. A lot of people have talked about it. I won't say it again. This was therefore one assumption and another assumption was to provide funds unseen and unintended in a specific sense of the word. So, in general, it was about fighting bribery and corruption, but it was not really known who was on the agenda and it was one of the advantages of this action. Was there corruption in the fund during the last government? This will show the investigation and I am convinced that it was and therefore I am surprised by the question of Mrs Pusic, who says the minister's responsibility is political, because they were members, i.e. the chairman of the Fund's Management Board. Does not mean that nothing was launched in the past government in this sense because the ministers, by the logic of Mrs Pusic, should resign and the president, or vice-president of the government and the members of the fund, so you were afraid to raise the issue so that the government would not fall by the logic that you raised. Yes, Mrs Opacic objected to why the President of the Supreme Court was attending a meeting of those bodies where he was the President of the Republic, the Government, the Parliament, etc. Because he didn't belong there. Not on the agenda of this meeting body was not operational issues, but on how to improve it, and it is based on Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia paragraph 2 reads: “The President of the Republic takes care of regular and coordinated action, and of the stability of the state government. ” So there was the authority of the President of the Republic of Croatia who was present at that meeting to invite also the President of the Supreme Court as one of our kind and the shape of our authority, to participate in the agreement that the state should act in harmony in battle, so here I saw that Mrs Vesna was first and crossed. Well, that's good, better ever than never. And as for why the ministers and representatives of the boards of directors, the HDZ authorities abolished in '99. and could not have been ministers, MPs, members of the board of directors in order to bring the coalition authority to power, so one member of the government last term was a member of the 72 administrative board. 72 letters and a number. So, we used to do it, and then we shut it down. You brought it back again, and what do I think the public expect from all this? The public expects something to start working. The public expects not only demagogy and story, but the public expects concrete actions, concrete actions. And what's unknown to the public in this one, and it's good to the public, and especially to the government and individual ministers, or maybe to the entire government, is that no one knows where this is going to stop and don't ever think that this action, Maestro, or similar actions, will probably be and will only stop for four years. If it worries you that it will stop for the last four years, don't worry, it will stop far away from these four years. I think it makes you happy, given the way and the principled attitudes you take on that question. So, our mission is to support all of this, without politics, and what this government has initiated, it has not led, it has initiated and supported us, because in the 9th month of last year, the state summit held a meeting on corruption and bribery, and it has reached appropriate conclusions and suggestions and acted on the rule of law to work. He let the rule of law work. Will the rule of law come up I don't know any privatisation events in '92, '93? A year? Will the rule of law come to the conclusion that individual ministers' companies were doing big jobs during the time they were formally transferred to law enforcement teams and the like? Whether or not we let the State's Attorney's Office, let's let the BOOK and the security services and the police around here question the Croatian laws, because they do not recognise that the police are working and acting. It's like she's out of this to reduce the participation of that part of the government that's in charge of the affairs of the investigation, the collection of certain elements for prosecution and so on. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports all actions that go towards disclosure and until the end of research into all the acts that mean corruption, bribery and organised crime, and it supports the government to create a framework and support, because if they have approved so much resources, they did not know exactly what action this shows that they trusted in the system of state authorities and those state institutions which, by law and the Constitution, are in charge of carrying out certain investigative and other tasks and that they are pursuing those who are in corruption and bribery. It's the government's success, not failure. That's the advantage of all this, because there's no phone calls, not me. It is in the hands of the State's Attorney's Office, BUSKOK and other authorities and let things end, and those who feel little or some fear or some sort of panic that we can have lived a lot on the stories and names of others, so let them feel a little what it means to be a difficult, but just hand of the Croatian rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91508	Thank you. Five rectifications of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91509	I, Your Honor, am correcting the three incorrect allegations of Vice President Dom Luke Bebić. I don't know which college Mr. Bebic graduated from, I understand that he didn't read the Constitution well, but there's nothing the President of the Supreme Court does at the National Security Council session. It's the political message you're sending to the public. The President of the Supreme Court is the highest authority of the judicial authority and has nothing to do with the National Security Council meeting. A second incorrect quote. Vice-President Bebic said the main credibility of this government was that the ministers did not know. They didn't know. Great. You know what this government's major unbelief is? Which defends every political responsibility of the ministers sitting on the Management Board of the criminal institution. That's the government's main unbelief. And now let me answer the first step that you're saying that the first time around the world begins with the first step. It's true, it starts with the first step. The first step of "Maestra" also begins to fight corruption, but unfortunately it is at the end of your term, not at the beginning, and that is where the main problem of this government lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91510	Second correction, honourable representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91511	Says Mr. Bebic, the government has initiated the "Maestro" action. That's not true. The government initiated HFP corruption because there she, the government, brought all these people, she named them, that's her choice now in custody, and brought the HFP Management Board to all four ministers whose mandate in HFP came corruption and it is not a success of this government. No, no ex, this isn't about the former government. They were taking bribes while these four ministers were managing the fund, and you're defending those four ministers as credible. If that's your credibility, you're actually calling for corruption. You're calling for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91512	Third correction, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91513	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bebic said that the main credibility of this action is that the ministers did not know. So we claim that the ministers did not know, not only about this action, the ministers did not know what was going on around them for God and how these ministers could be credible. They don't know that people only received 800,000 euros from USKOK agents. Well, they didn't just talk to the SCOCK agents. They must have talked to someone else. The second correction to the wrong assumption. Mr. Bebic said this government supported the fight against bribery and corruption. How? By putting her corrupt assistants in charge of the fund and then sending them to work, giving them bribes and corruption, and eventually the rule of law caught them. So for God's sake, where's the government's merit besides bringing corrupt people to those places?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91514	Representative Bebić did not say that the government has set up corrupt people, and you are correcting...... Yeah, but then you're correcting, so don't make it wrong. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91515	Mr. President, Mr. Bebic said the government has secured and made this action possible. The state's attorney's office and the U.S.K.A. were wireing that money, and the government gave that money from the budget reserve. So that 800,000 euros was given from the budget reserve. If the government were willing to do so and provided that money, it would have been planned in one item of the budget. So the government was also forced into action by the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, and probably some government actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91516	It was an extra cost. Unplanned, unpredictable. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91517	Mr. Baby is not exactly your quote that you will say, everything comes to its place with this action of BUSKOK. You know well that the billions that have disappeared by privatization and I would use the Croatian term "accepting" will forever be lost to both the Republic of Croatia and its people. Second quote. I'm among those people who are scared and who are panicking about what's going on, not because I'm afraid for my skin, but I'm afraid that reckless privatisation will continue after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91518	Justice is disputed, but we hope so. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91519	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with what Mr. Polancec said. What he said in public statements, but what he repeated today and here today, that he knew nothing. It's not the first time he knew anything. But in the same sentence when he said he didn't know anything then he said he didn't want to replace anyone so he wouldn't interfere with the investigation. In one single sentence, he denied himself. He also said one thing, that he was sorry he didn't make an inventory, and we know that the Parliament had obliged him to make an inventory. And one more thing he said in the paper, he was conducting his own investigation. If he found anything, and if he knew anything other than what he didn't know, then he had to report it under the Penal Code, because if he didn't report it, he did it. However, we want the story back all the time, and here is Mr. Luka Bebić, who wanted to return the story even to that old system where it was also stolen, in which there was corruption, there was a bribe, and he says it's just a sequel in this system. Mr. Bebić, fellow parliamentary deputies, has been stolen forever, but we, gentlemen, are responsible for the work now and we are responsible for the work of this government now because we are here in the Parliament to control this government now because we have chosen it. Although when I look at what the government is writing, it writes that the HDZ government is, it means that I shouldn't feel it as my own. That's what they wrote in the obvious. However, I feel it as my own, because this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am obliged to warn the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when this government is not doing well. And if the five ministers of this government are in an affair, isn't it logical to ask these ministers to leave? Do you know how that happens in normal states, like Japan? There's a lot less to do with harakiri. I suggest ours introduce just hanging if they don't want to accept that they have any political responsibility. Do you think political responsibility doesn't exist at all? Do you think they're not responsible to anyone? No, gentlemen, you've been passing the ball all along that we don't want to investigate corruption and crime in this country, and I'm going to remind you of some of the things I've been saying here. I'll remind you of one thing when we were bringing in a list of companies of special national interest, when we said that companies that aren't worth anything or almost nothing just to get caught there and get something. At the time, it wasn't the Law of Conflict of Interest as it is now. You gentlemen said then, no, we have to appoint ministers there, we have to appoint officials to protect the property of Croatian citizens. What were these gentlemen protecting? What were these gentlemen protecting? They didn't know anything. They had no idea what was going on behind their backs. And we, you said we had to have ministers and officials there to protect it. And then I asked Prime Minister Sanader why Liburnia was left out of that list, and then I warned and asked a rhetorical question, whether something should have been called a criminal organization because of its evil that was made in conversion and privatisation. I don't care who, left, right, red and green. I don't care who. But you can't say that this is the government's success and that I should congratulate the government. I just want to remind you of some things from the beginning of this term. I don't care what happened in the other one. I haven't been in once, this is my first. I want to know what it is now! Let me remind you of some of the affairs in this term. "Bechtel", "Imostroj", "Brodoplit", prime minister's watches, Minister Kalmeta and driver, HAC, Croatian Privatisation Fund, "Liburnija", "Suncani Hvar", approach road Zadru, "Silver", "Pliva", "Shimatshu" and not to add any further. I'm telling them and it's not true. These are all the affairs that rocked the Croatian state. No, it wasn't us. These things were investigated by the gentlemen of the press, and it's an honor to them. If they hadn't investigated the press, they'd probably never have been discovered how well you hid them. Because if you hadn't hidden them very likely for these three and a half years, some of these affairs would have been over, at least one. To this day, none have been completed, and as far as this contribution is concerned, the government has in its time declared England the best firefighter in England. Declared the man to the best firefighter, he was the most successful because he put out the most fires, he participated in the most extinguishing, but also in two years he discovered that he had set those fires himself. Gentlemen, doesn't this remind you of yours? I'm sure it reminds me of the same thing, because if it wasn't, then one of these affairs would be over. You're telling me we're not sooner? Gentlemen, five times from this pay phone, I've asked the Prime Minister to start dealing with corruption. Every time I pointed to a robbery at the Fund for, I couldn't because I wasn't in that conference, if I was sure I would. But for this term, I have a prime minister I have to ask because the citizens have obliged me to ask him what he's doing in this term and so I ask him what he's doing about corruption. And you know what he's doing? It protects those caught here in corruption. It's working!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91520	Corrections to incorrect allegations by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91521	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Kapraljevic says 5 ministers are in an affair and I suggest they only handle it by hanging. I think he's really out of line with such a single finding and it's not appropriate that I don't know what kind of affair he's having, and you might as well ask why the processes that were led against Mr. Cacic went out of date. If Mr. Cacic had been clean in those processes never, I would never have let these processes go out of date. Because since he's out of date, he hasn't cleared himself of the charge. I also ask the above gentlemen why his processes are in court and how they are buried as regards the land in New Zagreb bought by Konzum. Why do these processes stand in the Supreme Court or wherever they stand? Why haven't they moved in years? That should also be answered if there was a minister I would ask her to launch and ask why the proceedings against you stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91522	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91523	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague hurt Article 210. I didn't talk about this at all, and my colleague and I had a debate about Mr. Cacic here, and at the same time we were looking for a debate about Mr. Prime Minister of yours because he said that the prime minister of HDZ, Mr. Zuzul, was also here. What did you do? We voted for ours, you didn't. You were protecting him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91524	This, unfortunately or fortunately, is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure because the speaker also held on to the subject as you did to the same extent. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovovic, the next correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91525	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly claims that we want to get back as he says the wheel in the back, which is not true. What we're doing in the present, we're doing well, and what you're doing this whole action is a preventive action to actually stop talking about what was before, and what was before we know well. These are all known CNS candidate malfeasances for Prime Minister Cacic. And we, on the other hand, have a lot of understanding in the present of SCIENCE, State's Attorney's Office, MUP, Security Services. Because if it took them eight months for three vice presidents, I'm sure given their size of work for Cacic, it takes at least two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91526	Dear Representative Josip Djakic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91527	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, namely I will also correct the incorrect allegations by my colleagues that the story wants to go back. This is absolutely not true, but it is true that there was a Zagreb loop called HDF, and with these loops the indicators show clearly according to all the data available, according to all the logical conclusions the real directions of the movement further are Varazdin and Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91528	Dear Representative Frano Matušić is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91529	Thank you, Mr. President. In a number of his incorrect allegations, counterpart Kapraljevic said the following was that we were hiding affairs in HDZ. Falsely, no affair has been hidden from us, and what you've listed as quasi affair is your fiction. As for the Prime Minister and his watches, you had a debate at the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. You have the results of that. Therefore, do not deceive the public. At the same time, this commission clearly identified the conflict of interest of your member, Mr. Cacic, who made hundreds of millions of kuna contracts with his firm, his ministry. The other thing is, we can say it's the government's success, you said we couldn't say. We can certainly say that! At the time of your government, the HNS, the SDPs, and I don't know who the service leaders are, they didn't even talk, let alone negotiate these actions. Therefore, conditions were created and thanks to the work of this government and the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91530	Next correction by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91531	Mr. President! A colleague, Kapraljevic, counted really very precise affairs that appeared in the press three and a half years ago and said that journalists had discovered them with valuable and dedicated work, and that we had very skillfully hidden them. I think it's really incorrect because we're not hiding anything but we've ensured that the institutions are functioning and it's actually seen from the fact that in this period more criminal corruptive acts of our judiciary have sanctioned. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say one affair about Imostroy. We've just asked the State's Attorney's Office and the audit to give their findings on whether there was any responsibility of the government. According to their findings, the process is completely clean and, as you know in that Imostroya purchase, the government has waived its claim that workers will achieve their claims that would otherwise not have been achieved without it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91532	And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91533	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Kapraljevic, designed the "Sun-Hvar" affair at the wrong time... Namely, "Sun-Hvard" rocked the former government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that only under the pressure of part of the then coalition government, the actions of the coalition government to work it, because it threatened to break up the government, that the decision to sell "Sun-Hvar" has been annulled. And another incorrect quote refers to "Ply." It is a virtual, fictional affair that you HNS and SDP placed in the Croatian public and it is de facto not an affair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91534	Minister Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91535	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me still say a few words about it because it seems to me that part of the MPs persistently or doesn't want to understand what's going on and the time we live in or understand it but you want to turn the other way. I want to point out here, this government is making a full contribution to what needs to be, which is that the Croatian State becomes a legal state and that Croatia is not a political state. I know it's hard for a certain number of people to understand that from a political state you can move to a legal state. Unfortunately, we have lived in different countries for a long time but in countries that have been political and where decisions have been made in a political way. So, at forums, in meetings, committees, stuff like that. Unfortunately, after the '90s. In part, Croatia was a political state, it was a part of the reason for the war, the exiles, the suffering and everything else. And finally the time has come for Croatia to move from the political state to the rule of law. And the government, this government is making its biggest contribution to this. And in some part, unfortunately, I'm surprised that in some part of the MPs, it's causing some conflicting thinking. And how does it contribute to becoming from a political country to a legal state? In such a way as to create and establish a legislative framework, to create an institutional framework and to provide material resources for it. And in this context, this particular government has created assumptions that those institutions that are competent and that need to monitor what is going on, that should be investigated, don't you think that you should not know, ministers and parliamentary representatives to be investigators and that they appear somewhere where parole seems to be something that's not good? So thank God in Croatia today there are institutions. They were created a legislative framework, established and created a material basis for them to act. The result is that institutions that are responsible for monitoring and solving this problem operate in Croatia and the result is that there are no more unprotected in Croatia. And that is the point of what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. And as a member of the government in this term, I am just extremely proud of what the government has created assumptions. And dear friends, I am far happier that this situation in the fund has been revealed because it is not the situation of today. This is a situation, unfortunately, that has long, long been going on in this institution. And there's been a lot of debates in this High House, but since the debate, dear friends have nothing. A system must be created, a legislative framework and institutions must be created. And the thief must be caught. Until the thief gets caught in the act, we can talk, we can kill ourselves and exhaust ourselves in stories. And because of this, this is something that is very positive that happened in the Republic of Croatia, which is why no one who deals with dishonest activities will sleep peacefully, unlike some others who sleep very well and peacefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91536	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91537	Well, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a respected minister who said it was even difficult to understand the transition from political to legal state. Minister! There is criminal responsibility and there is political responsibility. The criminal responsibility corresponds to those who are now in prison, and political responsibility is for politicians. Political responsibility is for politicians. You know the meaning of a chocolate when you're hungry. A minister in the European Union lost her post because she was hungry and took chocolate on the ministry's card. She lost her function because she shouldn't have done it. And here, what kind of criminal activity happens, the four ministers sit on the board of directors of the fund and answer nothing at all. Not for chocolate, but for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91538	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative, Vice-President Doma Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91539	For the sake of the Croatian public, and I would say for reason of common sense, I must correct this assumption of moving from political to legal state. A colleague, Cobankovic, is a political country by definition. The state is an expression of the political will of its citizens. After the state is each expression of political will, therefore, each state is a political state. The rule of law is the one in which laws rule even though they can be passed by a dictator. So it has nothing to do with democracy. And then there's a democratic rule of law. It is a state that is as a political form an expression of its citizens, the political will of its citizens. It is the state in, the rule of law that has been passed in the democratic procedure and where there is responsibility for respecting these laws and the responsibility of anyone who has by law defined That responsibility as you had it, as directly you Minister Cobanković at the Croatian Privatisation Fund [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you didn't do it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91540	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the president said everything about the political state's correction, but I'd add more. We're from a political state like you said. I'd add we've moved from agricultural land to something that has nothing to do with agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91542	Come on, all right. I can't see, I can't see the correction of an incorrect quote. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lalic. [[I see.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91543	I am correcting Mr. Minister's allegations regarding the political state, although it is obvious that the minister does not understand what the political state is but wants to point out that this government is in favour of depoliticisation. But, Mr. Minister, the fact is that this government, by the principle of political similarity, sets up a president of the Fund who knows nothing, says he doesn't know anything about what's going on in the Fund, that the same government, by the principle of political similarity, is setting up assistants. Defunct his allegations of depoliticisation [[/Intruder: And that's not what the minister was talking about. You're a good start to say.]] Excuse me, don't let me do this. [[/Intruder: Political state in the rule of law. And correcting an incorrect quote, don't argue under the correction of an incorrect allegation.]] I point out the inaccuracy of the government's contribution to depolitisation of state bodies [[/Intruder: Here you go, don't you?]] Well, that's the subject of today's debate. [[/Intruder: So the minister did not talk about the appointment of the Fund's Management Board. Here you go.]] So no one did. Don't let me explain [[/Intruder: Here you go. Yeah, it's an object but it's not a correction to an incorrect quote.]] Well, on these examples, I'm showing that this government is not in favour of depoliticalism but is politicizing but does not accept the political responsibility that follows. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91544	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Radoš. I'm asking you not to discuss this under the correct assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91545	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Cobankovic says the government has contributed to the fight against corruption, while at the same time it is the government's fundamental position that it did not actually know what was going on there. So how could she know to contribute to one process if she didn't know that this process was working at all? Things are just the other way around. The government did not know what was going on there and thus contributed to what they were doing, did those musicians at the Croatian Privatisation Fund and that is its contribution. With her ignorance, she made it possible for corruption at the Croatian Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91546	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jurjevic. Are you? ......... Are you up or what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91547	I did, I did, I did, I did. Well, it was about what my colleague Pusic fixed. I wanted to act clean as a politician. A colleague is an agronomist or something, so when you say state, you've already said political state. Every country is political. In a way, it would be good for the ministers to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91548	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91549	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the situation simply deserves to go from where Minister Cobankovic left off. I must admit that I do not understand what is political and what is the rule of law as he explained it and especially do not understand when he said that the system must be created afterwards. So I'd say on two or three examples of what kind of system was created within his ministry because today it's a subject of bribe corruption, and I believe that some of the elements could be found exactly in that system that he created. Example number one. In 2006, agricultural incentives amounted to a billion 874 million kuna. A year ago, a billion 711 million. That's a 10% increase. But if we're looking at who and how much he got these incentives, then it's interesting that 100 of the biggest incentives in agriculture got one quarter and they grew 38%. It is even more interesting to see that 10 of the biggest users of incentives received 50% greater than a year before or took part 10% in the overall incentives. It's worth the same law, it's worth the same rules how it's possible it's happening, is there maybe something that looks like a favor, a bribe, or maybe even corruption? Example number two. Several years ago, a decision was made on a proposal from local officials from Osijek-Baranja County to participate in the rehabilitation of companies called Valpovska-Agricultural Combined. 57 million kunas were given for the rescue. Of course, there was no contest. The resolution was given with a promise that we would keep our jobs, but here I read yesterday in the newspaper that in this private company, it was at the moment of the recovery a private company and today there was a private company of those 57 million kuna that was pumped there was nothing left. In fact, there are over 130 people. These people will end up on the street and eventually receive a maximum of 70,000 kuna. On the basis of which law has such a decision been made, or if a decision has been made to resuscitate a private company with more than 50 million kuna, are there any obligations to use that money for purpose? If he doesn't come back eventually. I'd be interested in the minister's answer if there was a clause in the decision that was made on that occasion. Example number three is very interesting. We'll set up a shop for the south side. We'll put her in Conavle. There's a local party official, I don't think I should say where he bought the winery. He bought the winery in a way that he borrowed from the municipal budget a million and 300 thousand kuna. Of course, that money was partly returned only when he got a criminal report. And of course he'll get it back when he gets the money from the ministry for incentives, because with the winery he's got the land, he's got the incentives for land, so he'll pay it back painlessly not with his money, but partly with his budget, and there's part of it from the Ministry of Agriculture. This is what we have in the state, whether it's political, if we make decisions like this, we make them political. How legal she is, we all know that because today we're talking about it. And as we created the system, these three examples speak well. Well, I'd like to ask the minister to show up on all three examples, I assume he knows them. What is characteristic of today's debate is that we are all, or more or less, all uninformed. It is characteristic that we started the debate too late, the HSS asked last week for the prime minister to come here to the Parliament to introduce us to what is happening in the Fund, to draw some conclusions after the debate. But today I hear a fellow Baby boy just threatening. We've also heard of our President Shakespeare in the media announcing large-scale hunts. Do they know more than we do when they announce great hunts? If they know what the message is. A message to those who are being hunted to go abroad and join a number of tycoon entrepreneurs who have already done it or who are packing suitcases. A message to sell shares, shares and assets like they've already done. However, after such messages and after such a hunt, what is constantly happening will happen. We can put salt on their tails usually at the end of all that. We made a rye, and of course the rabbit is still in the woods. To me, this privatisation fund over the last 15 years as well as some other bodies run by state property look like a big bank of pigs. Because we put money in it, we throw it in, and no one really knows how much it's put in and if it's all put in. That's the practice of a pig bank when we had diaspora money. Such a practice would be to purchase weapons in the Homeland War. But also in the sale of shares and government property. It's a bunch of bitches who don't have a key but has an opening through which there's obviously something that can be pulled out. It's about time, and that's what HSS is all about, and it's about breaking that little bank of pigs, counting what might be left in there, and starting to behave transparently. This is why the HSS believes that we here in the Croatian Parliament must pass the Corruption Act, better said about anti-corruption. We believe that ministers and other officials should leave from all supervisory committees. We think there's a need to stop further privatisation. We believe that before the new privatisation of any new law should be passed. We believe that damages should be compensated for those who had them directly. And we think that we need to form a parliamentary investigation committee that would be dealing with what's called a bad situation at the Privatisation Fund. If we want to pass the Corruption Act, first of all, it would be to form a body that would exclude from the existing laws provisions that suit corruption. However, we should also prescribe a Code of Conduct for Public Officials. Is anyone allowed to go to a football game if a private contractor pays him a plane ticket, if he pays him a night and just a ticket? It's still unclear with us. But we must also protect those who are called whistles, who report corruption. We must give further benefits to the penitent. But we should also financially reward those who report corruption. From the supervisory boards and the boards of directors when the ministers and others come out, we need to put in the profession, the profession that will be rewarded, which will be paid for, and that is good. But also to answer for any failures, because we don't have a minister's reward here, but obviously we don't have any responsibility. When we say that we need to stop further privatisation, we mean between others and Hrvatski Telekom. We believe that citizens should be given shares and shares as equivalent to what they paid through telephone connections from thousands to 2,000 then, and not that those same shares have to buy again. We believe that before we start privatizing Telekom, we must know whose DTK sewerage is. And there's no reason for us to rush ahead. As far as further privatisation of INA and the energy sector is concerned, it would also be good to separate from this great giant those resources that are not your activities. We think of the sources of drinking and gettingermal water that are there and managed without being used in the right way. When we pass a new law, we should probably go back to the story of whether we can compensate for the damages of those who had the most. That's where I mean the stockholders, I mean 500 grand of those small shareholders whose contracts were broken, I mean 320 grand of those who lost their jobs. But I also think of exiles who were supposed to sell shares for 10% of the nominals. It is obvious that in Croatian society a serious disease has been diagnosed, and it is called corruption. Such a disease also requires shock therapy. Such a disease requires the treatment of the best medicines, but so should the best medical teams. What we would advocate in the HSS is to prevent the trend of the formation of 200 richest families in Croatia. I'm not saying that this plan exists. However, it is obvious to be suitable through competitions by large companies. There is hardly any competition through not to pay for the purchase of assets or shares of 10 or more million kunas, or possibly if something buys take responsibility for the payment of loans and contributions of several dozen million kunas. What's worrying about here when I talk about the way we discuss it in the House is that our citizens will probably wonder if this is the pre-election folklore again and if we're going to do something more serious through the changes in privatisation. Because such spectacles were already seen mostly before the elections. Watching as the criminal organization closes down. They've been watching things around the Kutla. They also watched the announcements last time about the privatisation review. So it's about time we started thinking differently. Thinking differently means that we should end this privatisation fund, that it's one of our conclusions, because we need to know how to proceed. If we abolish the fund of course that something else needs to be established, something else must be called the agency, but the agency that would also manage the assets and agencies that would also have its own specific privatisation sector, but what it manages should and should answer that each year the value of the assets is growing and higher, to make it transparent, to be like the stock market. For those who buy so that they can see what is sold, under what conditions and how they can participate and compete. First of all, it is important to pass this new Privatisation Act, and it is important to install into it what we have been saying for years. It is important to see what we will do with pension funds because we have promised to fill these funds with shares, but obviously, according to the old law, we have no intention, nor is that possible. When I talk about transparency, it's obviously high time to start treating gastritis that people got by drinking coffee in the Croatian Privatisation Fund because this coffee meant nontransparentity and that coffee meant what to do next. We have the disastrous results of the fund's work, obviously the fund has guessed, obviously it has had a passive role in action, obviously it has not protected the state's interest enough, it has obviously given benefits to customers for recapitalisation, it has obviously accepted once the offers they had in their work investments that have had greater employment. But it happened the other way around. These potential buyers pushed people into the street, didn't invest any money in the company's development, and so did the fund, and no one asked for the end of those contracts, the fund didn't ask for that property back. Well, here's what I'm up for, and the HSS club is exactly how we work. I think it's on that trail and the HSP club that also made a proposal in the legal procedure, but we didn't do it. We don't think about returning the property to the fund, we didn't break any such contract with those who didn't respect the law, who didn't respect the competition. However, if we cannot prosecute those who have done so or if so, it is absolutely certain that we can return the property and we invite you to start doing so today. We would also like that finally the fund that keeps the lottery big to stop doing it, to stop pleasing those who have millions of kunas and to get small shareholders and get a chance for small entrepreneurs. Those little ones who don't have the money to pay for the coffee have just suffered the greatest damage. It's high time we changed our trends, but also changed our practice in privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91550	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91551	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague, Pacek, who claims that governments are putting people in responsible places. I'm saying it's a false allegation, that's not true. Here's an example from his time there. After a deep consideration, the government of the former government has certainly made it easy to consider the position of the chairman of the administration "Pika" Vrbovac of a certain Mr. Bevec, whom the wicked media have claimed to be some further cousin of Mr. Pankretic, but good. It was probably just a plus for him. And that Mr. Bevz again not lightly, he got over $60,000 a month's salary. Mr. Bevc also made an effort to increase debts by 15%, and USKOK again, not lightly or perhaps easily proved so much malfeasance that the respected Mr. Bevc is still in prison today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91552	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Your Honor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91553	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, a colleague of Markovanovic's, as he used to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91554	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91555	In 209, 210, don't waste any time on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91556	No, no. According to the Rules of Procedure, you must specify an article that is injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91557	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91558	Because I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, but you tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91559	This Regulation shall enter So please check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91560	No, I know the 209th article by heart, and it's not hurt. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91561	210.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91562	That's not what this is all about, that injury to the Rules of Procedure. It's not, Rules of Procedure 210 says a speaker can only talk about a subject that's on the agenda, but that doesn't matter. Representative Markovovic did not harm the Rules of Procedure, according to him, incorrect allegations that the government has made it easy to appoint members of the board of directors, ministers. ... But it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I asked not to discuss under the institute correcting the incorrect allegations. Thank you. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91563	Mr. Vice-President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure because you frequently violate the Rules of Procedure of Article 87 because you are obliged to allow MPs to speak in the Croatian Parliament. However, you abuse your position to those who do not allow them to say so. You've made it impossible for me, you've made it possible for colleagues, and you've made it possible for some of the other MPs to abuse the correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91564	Here you go, Reverend.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91565	And that's how you break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91566	Dear Representative Lalic, I give you a warning. For your information, Article 87 says: "The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry... "Determining and monitoring of policy." So obviously you're breaking the Rules of Procedure on purpose, and I'm not going to let anyone deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure while I can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91567	I'm thanking you. Give another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91568	Your colleague Pacek found out he didn't hurt his Rules of Procedure, so here he sat down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91569	And give another warning. I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91570	That's the luck I'm not going to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91571	Here's what you're like.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91572	Well, I'm good. I'm good. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91573	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Pecek said one inaccuracy that the practice of this ministry and this minister and this Government of the Republic of Croatia is to resuscitate the business of the combinations by citing the example of Valpoov, which is not true. More specifically, his government or coalition government or his former party president has, on several occasions, rescheduled the combined not only Slavonic but also others that I think was in vain. It is also true that incentives are nominally higher and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia led this minister and has consolidated the business of the family economy, as well as consolidated the business of combinations, which I think exactly corresponds to the principles of economic and agricultural policy declared by this government, and not that this is the subject of the source of corruption as Mr. Pecek said, an incentive which can be controlled and seen that these were not the subject of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91574	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91575	It has been injured in Article 209(1), which says that the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. What Mr. Bagaric was talking about is not the subject of the agenda. And in paragraph 210, which says if the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure too because you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91576	Thank you. I allow the possibility of hurting the Rules of Procedure this time, because Vice President of the House came to me and asked me to make amends here, so I didn't, here's the truth: I didn't hear everything that the honourable representative was saying, and I allow the possibility that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I can't give myself a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Pacek, distinguished representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91577	Same explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Look, it's true that you didn't listen to what Mr. Representative was saying, but you don't have the right not to listen especially because my colleague was correcting me and I was saying the exact allegations. I was saying the answer I got from the Ministry of Agriculture that was here on the benches, only Mr. Agent didn't read it. And it's true that the big one has 50% incentive more than a year ago, here's the minister to deny me, and the middle one has 38% higher, and the kid has less than 10%. What's going on here, Mr. Minister? Don't deny it to your colleagues incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91578	Thank you. I really don't have the right to not listen, but let me be a gentleman, so Vice President Pusic asked something so I couldn't tell the vice president let me wait a minute while I Thank you. [[You're not a gentleman to Ljubica.]] I'll make it right. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91579	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Pecek said the Konavle municipality gave a million and 300 thousand kuna to buy Dubrovnik basements. Unfortunately, this is not true, it is incorrect because the municipality gave money to buy and buy grapes which is a big and important difference, and in this way the municipalities should actually help local and regional self-government to promote this culture of good vine cultivation, but also to create good wine in this way. ... 0.0 we're still 0.0. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whoever drinks that doesn't drive, who drives that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91580	Thank you. I did well, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, for the third time I repeat the question, is there a report from the Governing Board of the Croatian Government and if there is what the Government has said about it? And I've been digging through the Internet for an hour or two, searching for all sorts of resolutions, and I haven't been able to find a single chance to talk about it. If it wasn't discussed, someone broke that damn law where it said it had to be discussed. In the whole discussion, it was crystallized that both ministers and prime minister, the entire government and the Croatian Democratic Community club, in fact, decided firmly to deal with corruption and not to let corruption rise its head. That's a nice line, let's see how credible it is. Let's think of three days back, four times how many. On Thursday, we had a vote on the budget bill. One of the points within that budget account was the Financial Report of the Privatisation Fund. When it came to a vote on this side, we yelled out loud and watch what you voted on. You're voting on it now. We'll talk about it next week. That's the budget that went through. I must admit, however, 10 HDZ deputies abstained, and they voted for all other points of budget calculation, 10 people abstained here, but most of the club still accepted. The people of the fund's vice presidents were already in custody at the time, you knew that 800,000 euros in bribes were paid in the year we discuss and vote for it, and then you claim to root for that hydra or jellyfish or what I know is what it's called, pours, to twist her neck. Well, that's not true. There are more resonations that do not contribute to the claim that actually this government is pushing for a rap-corruption stop right now. ... On your head? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Better on your head anyway. At one point the ministers of this government knew, at another point the ministers of this government didn't know. If the ministers of this government knew then the ministers of this government were not only responsible but also guilty. If they didn't know, then they were only responsible because they didn't know. The Prime Minister knew all along at one point, at another point he didn't know. If he knew then he was guilty, then he's a criminal. If he didn't know, then he's responsible along with the entire government. The fund manager who is also the president of the fund is, who is also the State Secretary for State Property Management, sitting on a consensual college of funds that makes those decisions from 10 million to 10 million kuna, unanimously, and decisions are made only by consensus. He sits there and consensually makes decisions on items for which these people receive bribes, and this man manages this business even with state property. So, at this point he has, say, him and his crew, he has military facilities in Croatia that are assigned, not assigned, sold somewhere, given somewhere, etc. And the man doesn't know what on his team of five people are doing to him? It's actually amazing. The responsibility that people who don't know and can't have is what we're talking about today. Guilt isn't what we're talking about today. The guilt will be discussed by someone else, first the state's attorney in his suspicion and then the courts in his judgment. We don't need to talk about guilt. But we have to talk about responsibility. And we can see that there's no will here to put that responsibility on sound ground and that people who were in a certain place because they're in a certain position say, sorry people really couldn't. Well, they're not from much work, I missed this, I couldn't, and I'm really responsible for it. Every single one of us would do it, I guess, in a private life. Ministers don't do that in this part of their lives. What exactly is this all about, just for the public to explain what kind of money it is? These three vice-presidents received from the USKOK, so there is no dilemma they received, they did not receive, 800 000 euros. To assume they weren't just talking to USCOC agents. Well, they're not so naive that they don't talk to anyone else but only these two, three USKOK agents who caught them. Let's say they talked to at least half of the people. So they received a total of a million and 600 thousand euros. In one media release, one of these vice presidents turned out to be "pink" 5% of the value of the job. If that's true for that "pink" and for this million and 600 thousand euros, they sold illegally, donated 32m euros in a year. And our country lasts longer. At one point Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said that for this, that he doesn't really know if he did anything, we'll only see when the investigation shows whether they did something or didn't do something for that money? From the point of view of a state attorney or a judge, of course, I'd be interested in that. But from the point of view of a parliamentary representative, I don't care at all. It's some establishment for those bodies that need to be established. From the perspective of the parliamentary representative, we should all be interested in how it could have happened next to the living ministers, four or five pieces to deal with so many millions of euros, companies worth so much millions of euros, and that none of these people even know that something bad happened until the police get there and arrest some guys. If that doesn't deserve political responsibility, I don't know what he deserves. The will, the will to really push things to the end, I think HDZ best showed on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91582	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91583	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the colleague incorrectly states that HDZ representatives were not credible. I think so. We voted on the budget of the Privatisation Fund clearly because there were no coffees in it. But as far as credibility is concerned, it is not clear to me that the HNS is credible when, for example, the candidate for prime minister suggests Mr. Radiir Cacic, who has set up his companies jobs for 400 million kuna and annexes for so much more. Long live credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91584	Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91585	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, let's get one false impression. I think things are getting a little messed up. There's a rumor that it didn't know that I couldn't share 800,000 euros. But there's one thing that's been ignored is that those who received it today are in custody. And that's the point and the essence of it all. And in order for them to be in custody, assumptions had to be made, and these were amendments to certain laws, the Law on State's Attorney's Office, the USCOD Act, the Security Services Act and the like. A material basis had to be created for these institutions to perform. And then, with all that when there was doubt and need, more funds were provided from the current reserve so that the action could be implemented. And that's the government's contribution. This is also the contribution of parliamentary representatives who, on a proposal from the Government, have changed this legislative framework in order to act. And to say once again and thank God, the time is coming in Croatia for the state to function. And that's what we say we become a legal state. Unfortunately, we have lived for a long time in times when decisions were made to be pursued, who would be prosecuted, and so on in a political way. And that's where I, as an agronomist, have made a little bit of a mistake compared to the distinguished gentleman, a politician who is significantly better at dealing with those terms. I made a mistake when I said political state I mean. I meant the political way of making decisions. And that time has passed. And unfortunately, some people don't want to understand it all the time. Do they not want to understand that the time has passed when someone, any minister, any president, should have said where some of the services will go and what they will do there. No, I don't. Institutions are on their own and they go where they need to go, not where someone sends them. And that's the difference. And because of that, I don't know why she's so nervous. Maybe it's a nervousness that just can't be handled like that anymore whether it's going anywhere or not. But it's clearly a high dose of anxiety. On the other hand, the esteemed representative Mr. Pecek said some things about the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, I have to say, this data he was providing, but part of it, I don't know if it was on purpose or whether it was some kind of laptop, it was from the Ministry of Agriculture. And they're transparent. And they're public. You got them all on the bench. We can discuss them and analyze them. But we can't say that it's something that's susceptible I don't know anything about that he's alluded about. He presented some other examples, which unfortunately are also not true. One example has already been denied by an esteemed representative, and I think that we must lead the public affairs, we must take care of the truthfulness and, above all, of the responsibility of the spoken word. Because if we insinuate something and say it incorrectly, then tomorrow someone can connect it and say, "Here's another affair. Something where there's no affair. And where there's no reason. And in the end, a little bit, I never like to go back too much, but sometimes to move forward, we have to look ahead and what happened in the past? So, while mentioning some 57 million kunas of conditionally rescheduled PPK Valpova and then privatised, in a transparent way it is not privatised to a disadvantage, it seems to me that we are forgetting that in the past term about 8 billion kunas have been rehabilitated by 7 agricultural companies, which unfortunately in 2004, have not welcomed anything in a better condition than they were in their capacity in 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91586	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91587	I thank Mr. President, so here's Mr. Minister's statement that the government's contribution is to give the money. It's not true because the state's attorney's office is a wire of money from the government, and secondly, the government didn't know anything because it would probably have been stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91588	They're not state lawyers. It's not the wire. They prayed, they prayed... Dear Representative Željko Antešić. [[You don't understand.]] Zdenko Antešić, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91589	Thank you. Mr. Cobankovic said that they, referring to the vice presidents of the Fund, had to be detained had to create preconditions in terms of legal, material and technical. But that's incorrect. In order for them to be detained on the Fund's Management Board, ministers who knew nothing and who, by their ignorance and inaction, had to be appointed to the Fund's Board of Directors, had to be appointed ministers who did not know anything and who, with their ignorance and inaction, had made it possible for that unprecedented robbery in the Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91590	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91591	Sir, Mr. Minister, it's not exactly as you stated that all that matters is that several people from the Fund are in jail today. The point is, why aren't the boards running? Why aren't the boards watching? Why aren't the reports being written? That's why all the information has to come from Interpol to Brodosplit? Why the police or the BOLO for this case or so? That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91592	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91593	Thank you very much. I must correct Mr. Minister's allegations that they have created a legal framework for this action. I also address you as a member of the Management Board of the Privatisation, Dispute and Correction Fund... You, in fact, have brought down the legal framework by your behaviour because you and everyone else here refuse to answer the question whether you have submitted reports on your work to the government and what is the government's decision for each year on each report? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, would you please tell me if you filed a report and what the government has concluded on the reports?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91594	So don't make requests through the correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. ... So pray and pray elsewhere [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91595	Well, thank you. I would like to correct actually a more than once-said statement just before after Minister Cobankovic's pay phone. And it was a statement that the times when politics affected the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office, were long behind us. That's not true, Mr. Minister. We were convinced in this assembly months ago that this was not so, and I will remind you of a fresh example if you listened to what was being said here today in the debate that the National Security Council also attended the President of the Supreme Court and Prime Minister. Maybe they were talking about nice weather. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91596	I was at the session because the president of the Croatian Parliament is taking part in the work of the National Security Council. The President of the Supreme Court has just stated that he wants the independence of the judicial authority fully respected. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91597	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that the state of state-of-the-art incentives in his ministry is ideal. Mr. Minister, if the law hasn't been amended, if the rules haven't been changed how is it possible that the big one gets 50% more incentives than a year ago? How is it possible that 100 of the biggest users of incentives get 38% more than a year before, and small that they get below 10% than a year ago. So I'm asking you to see what this is all about? And not to say later, I didn't know, and someone might be drinking coffee at your Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91598	You, too, fellow Pecek, are praying for an answer. So don't pray to the Minister of Agriculture. Pray for somewhere else. And other times. Yeah. HDSSB club, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91599	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, participating in this debate today, feeling a little uncomfortable by these cartoons on the right hand side of "Keep the Thieves" and the end of these cartoons on the left, I am also following them in the center, so I am not talking about the relationship at all, the political relationship here in the Croatian Parliament. The affair, under allegations of an affair at the Privatisation Fund, I don't see it that way. I think what we know about now, what we know as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is that it is about bribery and corruption, which has caught the Vice-Presidents of the Privatisation Fund. So bribery and corruption. But I think the scandal and the affair will just open because it's not about bribery and corruption. The bribe and corruption is for the 800 thousand dollars, which is, the EUR, the EUR, that's what the Fund's vice presidents took. I don't think the ministers who sat on the board had to know about bribery and corruption that some of them, that some of the vice presidents were taking it from them. And I don't see their guilt about that part. But why could vice presidents come to the position of someone offering them 50,000 euros? Why they could come into a position, for which reason someone would give them a total sum, or more precisely in this case, a USKOK of 800,000 euros. Well, for God's sake, it was some business, probably. These people took bribes for some business, some kind of transaction. Do we here in the Croatian Parliament know why these people took bribes? What did they do? What kind of services did they do? It's an important question to me. In any case, the success of the state's attorney's office and the USKOK in the discovery of bribery and corruption is one side of the story. But these reasons why a bribe was accepted, what actions, what businesses, what properties were sold, were granted, what transactions were involved. I think it's a dizzy amount. And this is about crime at the Privatisation Fund, because if someone could, I guess, in a relatively short time, come into a position where someone gives him a total of 800,000 euros in bribes, so then you can imagine what kind of business these are. Therefore, about bribery and corruption, what we now know, and that was just about the Privatisation Fund on bribery and corruption. We caught the vice presidents as they were receiving. I hope that this will be proven, that evidence will be collected in the investigations and that in the court proceedings it is likely to prove to these people that they were taking bribes. Maybe we're a little bit of a prejudge. Maybe from that as many times as it has been debated here in the Croatian Parliament later nothing happened. No one's been sanctioned! Do we really have or trust the press that this is about bribery and corruption? I can personally say that I believe. I believe it because such information in the press wouldn't come out. But I'm asking to be made clear to me by far more important things that these people have been working on. Why did they receive this 800 000-euro bribe? And to these answers and to these questions the public needs to know the answers and these are the questions to be asked and which I am now asking the most responsible for this speaker, i.e. the one responsible has remained in this Privatisation Fund Mr Grga Ivesic. But they stayed, but the board of directors and ministers remained in charge, and ministers are still on the board of directors. I'm not saying that they're responsible, don't interpret what I didn't say. I say that I am looking for a minister of the Croatian government sitting on the board of directors that they are initiating exactly this to clear things up and that we know what jobs the fund was dealing with and what jobs were bribed for. And besides, I don't think these transactions and these jobs have only been done since 2003, and here we are to this day. In that same Privatisation Fund, I suppose it's been working in one way or another long before, much earlier, so I dare say since the beginning of the draft Privatisation Fund. Therefore, I want to believe that the institutions of the legal system, the attorney's office, the USKOK, the police and the Ministers sitting on the board of directors will insist that all jobs be resolved from the start of the establishment of the Privatisation Fund. Not just this segmental, not just partial. About conversion and privatisation we discussed, I don't know how many times, so not just here at the Croatian Parliament. We agreed less or less that there were some terrible failures. I personally think there was a terrible thieving in conversion and privatisation. State audit, even today, has been repeated several times. I don't know how many irregularities were found. I think that regardless of who was on the Fund's Management Board and in the Privatisation Fund, it should have been on time to get those irregularities cleared up, not just in a way to detect them. There they are, so we saw it in the State Audit Report. Anyway, let's see who's responsible. Yeah, she says it's obsolete. Come on, there was this proposal, so let's change the Constitution. Are we going to say something here in the Croatian Parliament? There's nothing we can do about it because there's something out of date. So we stole state property, it's past time, there's nothing we can do and let's go now, let's move on, let's go on doing the same way, so what's left is going on and turn it into the same model of the Privatization Act as I remember it was before, and practically now. And this is precisely because of the fact that we're only talking about one part of it I'm guessing is a myth that is obvious, for which there is obviously credible evidence, this is today like that “let Pedro hang. ” Maybe I'm wrong. Let's go accuse someone, in this case four, so maybe the dust will come down, so we won't discuss any more important things about what's been going on in the fund in these four years, but even before, about financial transactions, about what's been embezzled all these years, and besides who's allowed to do it in one of these unauthorized ways. Therefore, the HDSSB Club thinks this issue is a matter of trust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, based for now only on the fact that the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK have discovered malversions in terms of taking bribes that this issue is premature. That this question is premature. The investigation is ongoing, the investigation is not complete. But it was too late to ask what's been going on in the Privatisation Fund all these years, and what's really not in time to react to all that crime and thieving in conversion and privatisation. And the fundamental question is what did these people at the Privatisation Fund receive 800 000 euros in bribes, for which jobs, according to quotes, were "projects", which were financial transactions. And I believe when that's talked about, when it's said specifically that these presidents are actually going to be marginal and that it's been said here many times that she's just about to come out of the big fish. I'm just afraid this shot is empty and this is happening somehow in the same model. We've opened up the debate, we'll discuss it, we'll find it's the president's fault, they are, so there's no confusion, someone who takes bribes, of course, that they should end up in prison. But also in prison should end all those who participated in the conversion and privatisation in one illicit, illegal way, in the way of theft and theft. And it can't be for anyone's sake that it's out of date. If in this case we find an excuse, then we really have nothing to look for here in the Croatian Parliament, because I think that we MPs can very much contribute to it. Let's change the laws, change the constitution, and let's not allow this kind of excuse to be obsolete so that those involved in crime, in thieving, in conversion and privatisation don't respond. And not only that, of course not just such people sanction, but return this property or return to its initial state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91600	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91601	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Šišljagic said the question of trust is premature. The question of trust cannot be premature because we are talking about political responsibility, and it is discussed when conditions are created that someone is politically responsible. And it seems to me that the question, as far as prematureness is concerned, is the question that you sat down with Mr. Sanader too soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91602	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91603	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official You, Mr. Kapraljevic and your colleague Kapraljevic, have made your point and your opinion. You did not correct the incorrect allegations and thus wronged the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91604	That's right. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91605	Well, the same thing. So on the condition that also counterpart Šišljagic appears again for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm correcting the same incorrect assumption that this issue is premature. This question is not premature, it's too late, it's too late. This debate was not supposed to happen because we are not talking about criminal responsibility to someone but political responsibility here. And the fact is that corruption occurred in the portfolio for which the ministers were responsible and that this debate should not have occurred, but that it had to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91606	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91607	But just like I said before, that's your opinion. And that's not correcting an incorrect quote. But I said two things, that it's too early to discuss crime at the Privatisation Fund, that it's two different things, and that the bribe that the presidents took, I guess they took because I don't have proof at this point. That it's a crime and that it's certainly a crime that deserves to be imprisoned and recovered from these funds. So two things I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91608	It's also not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic has also expressed his position several times when he stood up to the defence of the government and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister that the issue was premature. My colleague Pusic wants you now or that there's another club on behalf of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91609	This is just a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91610	A correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91611	I'm in charge of the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91612	And you've reached out to the correction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91613	Thank you very much. I'm, uh, I'm not going to intervene as a proposing, I'm going to intervene for a correction. Namely, counterpart Šišljagic said the Management Board had no need to know, so it is not necessarily responsible for bribery and corruption at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That's not true. If you look at the Fund Act and the Statute, you will see that the Management Board is just responsible for the operation of the Fund, for the decisions and appointment of these people who are suspects and who are now in custody. So the Management Board is responsible for that. Bribery and corruption are reason enough. And we here in the Parliament can't discuss extended charges, maybe some more people will end up in jail. But that's not our theme. Our theme is the responsibility of government members, and then, of course, the entire government that stood behind them who allowed and enabled them, that is, did not prevent bribery and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91614	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91615	Mr. President, thank you very much. But also, my opinion is that in my subordinates, someone is receiving 50, 100 or 1,000 euros, and I have no idea that I am because if there is no knowledge, I can't be responsible. I said it. I can't be responsible. And this Rules of Procedure, or regulations, or I don't know what it's called that you're... Let me, well, Mrs. Pusic, I didn't get my word in, so at least be a little polite. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure that you've mentioned and what instructions you've given about it, there's not a single word. It's not about what I said. I was saying I couldn't know from a thousand of my subordinates if someone took bribes, and I'm responsible only if I have that knowledge so I can't file a criminal report, that's what they were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91616	Yeah. How will you know that someone steals bacon if you trust him, you should first know it's a cat. To recognize that it's a cat, so if I do, if I'm aware to give the cat to guard the bacon, and that it's a cat, then I didn't really treat the good master's attention. ... There's cats flying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. You're on behalf of the club you're something, I'm pamptomizing myself that there's something going on. But since I don't know that letter... That you didn't turn on the microphone. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what in the name of the club do you want? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91617	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break to explain why.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91619	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Croatian television shut down the direct transmission 20 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91620	Yeah, well, they're an autonomous, programming council...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91621	That's right. Everything would be autonomous if there was no document dated 2 February 2005 signed by the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91622	There's a new document. That decision has been delegated. The program council has delegated that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91623	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91624	Well, of course not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91625	Point 1 unequivocally states that Croatia's television will broadcast directly meetings of the Assembly in the morning, when the state budget is on the agenda, the session of the Parliament, the session of the parliament, whose work is attended by the President of the Republic and when a debate on the confidence of the Government is discussed. This document has also been given to the Presidency of the Parliament which has concluded that it accepts it and that by the end of the term of office this assembly is worth it. At the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament on behalf of the HRT were Mr. Levak and... Since Croatian television has interrupted the transmission without any explanation of the announcement, perhaps you know more than we do, I am asking for a break so that we can agree on it and maybe give you time to give an official answer as to what it is. [[You don't understand.]] This is not an act by the parliament or the HNS club, but rather by the Croatian Radio Television which is still valid because it is not withdrawn by another act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91626	Lex posteriori derogat legi a priori. So it's a later law annulling the previous, this little poetically speaking. It has changed that decision of the Programme Council. It was later changed. It's completely self-determined. What do we have in the Croatian Parliament with decisions of the Programme Council, directorships when they will broadcast television or when they will not? We don't have anything. We have absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91627	The request for a break remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91628	For a break, I'm obliged to grant a break of 10 minutes. We're continuing the session. It's been exactly five minutes and now eight seconds. On the initiative of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, I was just communicating with the director of HRT. I told him what it was about and he tried to see that it was being transmitted directly in this second part, and he told me that it would probably work out that way. The truth is passed on to that HRT plus still, but I think he told me it would work out successfully. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for getting in touch with the responsible in Croatian television, given this information, because indeed not one club of representatives, and probably the Bureau's presidency from 2 February 2005 to today has been reported that the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television has changed its decision on how to monitor the work of the Parliament. This team more than 8 days ago announced that the topic of the debate on government confidence will be today and responsible in Croatian television has had enough time to adjust their programme and be those who will respect what the Croatian Parliament Presidency itself has proposed. The decision following the debate at the Presidency and the position that this Croatian TV system is being monitored by the Parliament until the end of the term of office has also been confirmed on the Programme Council on 16 February 2005 and I will be pleased and will be very pleased to see you at the moment when you inform us that Croatian television on the second programme continued the transfer of the work of this session. I was surprised by today's debate by my colleague, Bebić, who mentioned the word panic 18 times, and at some point I thought that maybe this interruption of direct transmission on HTV was two of the consequences of panic, but if this transfer is returned in accordance with this conversation with those responsible in Croatia TV, I think normal conditions will be created for continued work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91631	That's what we said it would be right away, very soon. Now let's get on with it. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91632	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I must admit at the beginning that I am quite disappointed because it seems to me that this debate is quite destructive and without a goal and somehow looks like a collective conscience-washing process because of the insufferable level of corruption in Croatia, and unfortunately at a time when, according to the Croatian citizens, this metastasism of Croatian society should be organised and contained, and what Croatian citizens rightly expect. Following obtaining parliamentary party status, the Croatian Party has repeatedly warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia in writing about the worrying processes of conversion and privatisation, as well as the need for its more active and concrete action. Our well-intentioned warning and suggestions were particularly about the observed irregularities and the lack of clean accounts around the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, about the coupon privatisation, about the application of the Croatian Privatisation Fund contract and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute concluded in 27.7.2000, on the State Audit Office's report on the implementation of the revision of the conversion and privatisation and of course the entry of assets into the Pension Fund. We also writtenly proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia certain solutions related to the establishment of clean accounts and the management of the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and also the adoption of a new Law on Privatisation. In each other's accusations and arguing political parties, we will not participate and settle, we see this as politics because no previous government can amnesty in the production of irregularities, unclean accounts and the creation of so-called. an orderly disorder in the field of conversion and privatisation. On the merits of each government, let citizens decide on their political responsibility in regular elections that are not so far away, so at the end of this year. No one has the right to be surprised by the latest events in and around the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but these events can only be a jubilee occasion for the final demonstration of political will and determination to address the extremely difficult situation, not wooden weapons for pre-election accusations and bickering. We well-intentionedly warn of the continued production of the ex post mind of political parties, i.e. the application of double criteria. One is the criteria while they are in power, and the other are the criteria when they are in opposition to the same irregularities and illegal behaviour and action. Although the latest developments are in and around the Croatian Privatisation Fund and political events, we well suggest that political parties not only spend their energy on taking credit and only advertising their own cleanliness, but for example. and to assess its contribution and its political responsibility for the depth and width of all adverse events, events and processes achieved. The general perception of the public about the confusion and the armyed relationship between politics and entrepreneurship cannot significantly alter the occasional awakening and washing of the false conscience of political parties, but the continuity and determination of bodies and institutions in the exercise of entrusted functions, i.e. the purpose, meaning and purpose of their existence, but without political arbitration and the use of discretionary rights of their own choice, which is the case here. It is not possible to fight corruption until the public has been demystified and explained the patterns and forms of corruption and organised crime. And there is no point in discussing in the Croatian Parliament in a way that does not accuse anyone, but in a way that opens the problem, the other side blocks the solution and then starts measuring political power and strength. That doesn't make sense. It is a debate without a goal, without constructiveity and without a focus on solving the problem. About the patterns I was talking about, they were all described and all spoken of by Mrs. State Auditor Mrs. Šima Krasic. Today, however, we are talking about only one form of phenomenon, of taking bribes. And she says the following and I quote what she said to the weekly, one week so "national." So: "It has often happened that the value of companies has not been realistically assessed. Also in many cases, we were unable to trace the number of offers received in a public tender for the sale of some companies. In several cases, the auditors found that companies were sold by making a call for sale after a letter of intent came to the Croatian Privatisation Fund from the same buyer. Only one offer of the same buyer would arrive at the published call. Also, some shares and shares were sold on a ring payment, and no payment and interest insurance instruments were agreed. Irregularities occurred because there were no criteria for selling companies below the nominal price. In the sales sector, the same irregularities occur today, both in public tenders and in the sale of shares on the stock market from the Croatian Privatisation Fund documentation, it is not clear why some shares are sold for 10% of the value as if there is no interest in them and on the stock market for 5 minutes. In such situations, we can only suspect corruption and report to the State's Attorney's Office." So, Mr. President of the Management Board of the Fund, the Croatian Privatisation Fund! In this term, 48% of Agrolaguna shares took place at a nominal price, and after the Assembly's decision to reduce the share capital. I don't know where in the world, except when there's something at any price that's gonna get rid of the 48% stakes suddenly put on the market. Such cases were also during the previous government and all previous governments, under the exception of what is on the stock market is transparent. The fact that it's transparent doesn't have to be legal and it doesn't have to be amnesty, so the influence of what's popular here today is that they're working for "pink." Therefore, the investigation must also be extended to the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and to the speculation on the stock market, i.e. a market and real estate bargaining. Of course, we are not in Croatia a party to pensioners for the conversion of the Croatian Privatisation Fund into the Government Agency, but to fully clarify the situation around the Croatian Privatisation and Introduction Fund under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91633	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91634	And in conclusion, we are to expand this action and become a force maestro.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91635	It's becoming a permanent campaign. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91636	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague Hrelja initially used the expressions that this debate was destructive, that it was politics, that it was a debate without a goal. The goal is known. They're looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91637	So what's wrong with that? So come on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91638	Everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91639	So say, you must say...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91640	Correcting incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91641	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. The incorrect quote is...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91642	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this debate is politics, that this debate is destructive and that this debate is without a goal. The goal is known. The government's political responsibility is required. And his debate, I'm going to argue that she was destructive because he didn't say one moment that he was doing business with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and they never questioned how it was done? And that's a big robbery, a stock exchange.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91643	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91644	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal I think the colleague, not only corrected the incorrect allegations but assessed my views and also told the truth because the gentleman has the opportunity to control every business and every annual business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91645	And this for correction, as is the correction of an incorrect quote, is MP Kapraljevic as he does, and every MP gets a little chatty, a little salty with some explanations. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91646	Mr. President! So I think Mr. Hrelja's colleague started to make this debate destructive, that she didn't need it. In the end, he himself claimed that it was necessary to make a cleanup, that order should be made, that this fund should be cleared up, etc. I think he's made himself right more than we're correcting him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91647	Now this is some specific new, self-repair. Which is not true. Please be offended by the Rules of Procedure again...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91648	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following My colleague didn't correct the incorrect allegations because he was correcting something I didn't say. I didn't say this debate wasn't necessary. Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91649	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91650	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91651	So you talk outside the microphone all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91652	Can I do it one more time? No, they didn't hear me over, I'm sorry. Someone must have turned it off in time. So, I'm correcting a colleague of the Temple if this were occasional conscience-washing, because occasionally this debate wouldn't happen because the HNS wouldn't panic that they'd get their leader. Repeated. Keep going. My colleague is talking about amnesty and alluding to several parties. I only warn him that this will happen with the Retired Party because the president of the Zagreb County Retired Party has destroyed the factory, sold out the machines and wanted to buy that factory in an extremely illegal way and thank God we stopped it. But the gentleman announces his arrival in Parliament, so I'm warning you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91653	Just some little detail missing for coming to the Parliament. Win the election. On behalf of the promoter, honourable deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91654	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it makes sense, and it's not the point of today's debate that she's getting divorced. One of the most effective ways that nothing has happened in many suspicious scandals and events that have been discovered or reported in the media has been precisely this technique all about everything, everyone is somehow responsible. In other words, no one is responsible. I am here supporting anyone who intends to open and believes that there are enough arguments that this Parliament may open a debate on anyone's responsibility. However, today is a debate on the responsibility of ministers who are on the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Government for Crime which was discovered in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And if we're going to diversify every such initiative in such a way that it's about everything and everything and 300 other things, we're not going to solve any of them. It is time for this Parliament that is responsible for this government to begin one by one and I will always accept that whatever you suggest you have the arguments to discuss and that. But today let's not try to cloud the water, hide behind the generality in order to avoid having an attitude. We must have a position here as we think of this particular case, in this particular, in this particular robbery and responsibility for this particular event which has been discovered in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Anything else we can do when it's on the agenda and we can discuss it. The fact is that the highest officials were arrested and appointed by the Management Board for bribery and corruption at least. Maybe it's something else that's about to be revealed in the further investigation. But at least for bribery and corruption. The problem will not be solved either by turning the Fund into an agency, nor by putting experts in place instead of members of the government responsible for the property of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Neither experts nor government members nor anyone else apriori is immune and is not a guarantee against corruption. The only guarantee is the responsibility and public accounts before this House. It's the only possible control and the only possible way to prevent any corruption. Whether it's about government members, whether it's about vice presidents of the Fund, whether it's about experts or any other people. The only guarantee is that people account for what they do, how they do, and that they are responsible for what happens during their term of office in the organization, institution, the body they are handling or who are at that time running. The parliament has no right and must not give up its responsibility to control the government and ask the government to make an account for the fact that it has been irresponsibly carrying out its business of caring for the property of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That's what this debate is all about. The purpose of the debate is to submit once an account for non-compliance under the law and what the Management Board must do in the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund to once lay down accounts for irresponsible behaviour, for irresponsible work against the regulations laid down in the law on irresponsible management or management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Maybe, it's true, there might be more arrests. There may be other crimes other than bribery and corruption but I do not accept and will never accept that bribery and corruption are not enough for one government and five of its ministers to call for responsibility. I don't accept that. I think bribery and corruption is enough reason to be discovered under the management of the Board of Directors in the Fund enough reason to seek the responsibility of this government and that is the purpose of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91655	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91656	Thank you very much. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Management Board of the Fund were carrying out irresponsiblely, quoting the supervision and irresponsible management. That's not true. It was precisely responsible behavior that the government created an atmosphere for detecting such crime and the Governing Board has so far led its responsible behaviour to privatise a more quality double as the last government. A second incorrect quote. The initiative for the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being divorced here in the Parliament. The other way around. You are divorcing the government's initiative to expose crime to such panphlets, such false submissions as you have been watering down all the positive political shifts in Croatia since 1990. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91657	We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91658	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Well, the first thing to say is that I'm not, which I have to say, I'm not happy with today's debate. She's pretty barren. Namely, today's debate first and foremost points to a number of important problems that result in the fact that the rule of law does not work with us or that institutions do not function as established by the Croatian Constitution and Croatian law, and this operation "Maestro" also says. Today we are witnessing when you look at these cartoons on my right they point and send a message: You are thieves. When you take this second cartoon "Keep the Thieves" message is sent, "So are you." Now that's what's very bad in Croatia. Which is very bad, it's relativating any responsibility and political and social responsibility and it's led us where we are. It is a very dangerous situation for any responsibility to be relativised in this way and if we continue to speak like that, and not to return to what the State Audit Office has found, and he has found that the story called conversion and privatisation is a Croatian form of grab, robbery and criminal enterprise. Because of the 1556 items that the State Audit monitored for 1481 or 95.17%, it was found illegal and there were irregularities. Only 75 under such a bad law have been found to have been legal, i.e. correctly established 1936 by illegality and irregularity. And what does the rule of law do? The rule of law does not apply to the established factual situation and therefore the rule of law does not function. Many of these things were also known by the former government, this government knows, and if this is the case, then there will never be any expression of what Croatian citizens expect. Something that is illegal, which is guaranteed, which is unlawfully acquired cannot become legal and legal. This is the biggest problem that no legal system in the world knows that something illegal becomes legal. But if this is how we argue it will become and I now call on both sides if we have the will not only of the declarator, let the Doctors do their work. Let us show the will of the Croatian people that we want to resolve it. We offer for the third time our Law on sanctioning the illegality committed in conversion and privatisation. So it's a form where we can give a message. It doesn't have to be ours. Let it be the law of this Croatian Parliament, and let us act according to civil law, according to real law in all cases of ecultant violation. Let's go to the advertising process for the lowlifes. And that's why the ministers who are on the board of directors are responsible. Why? They didn't create the conditions in the fund to make it. How was it expected from the fund that he would prepare for the State's Attorney's Office to advertise nothingness when these people did. It was a total illusion. We wanted to open it up with an interpretation. We are not allowed because he says we cannot discuss the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Imagine, General Gotovina is due to the commanding responsibility of the mosque in prison, and ministers say we are not responsible. If a member of the Management Board is accepted, then a member of the Supervisory Board has the least part of his political responsibility, and then if he has the least political responsibility, then it was necessary to give a mandate at least to the Prime Minister. At least to the Prime Minister, because if an official performs a certain duty in the Supervisory or Management Committee, and does not know what is happening, it means that he is incompetent, unable to perform that duty and that it is smarter to give that mandate at his disposal and to resign. Let's introduce these principles of political and social responsibility, and the other one is a variant if the official knows what's going on then he's also criminally responsible. Now we go back to the other part of the irregularities, the illegalities they have, which aren't eclectic. In that part, we suggest that you go to the property certification institute specifically, and that's what you paid 10% of what you were supposed to pay for. So there were a lot of situations, let's say the situation A buys from the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the person of the xy sawmill. The estimated value is a million marks at that time. There are 4 million marks of wood on your lager. He pays 10%, this sells, the privatisation fund still can't transfer his property. What's that? Robbery and robbery! That's the kind of case you have. How many of these 1500, 1481 cases or variant B, he buys and then pays off that part of what he has to pay the government out of getting that company he bought. That's what the State Audit found. The State's audit found it all, and no one did anything, no one did anything. Conclusions of the Croatian Parliament – nothing. We've proposed the law twice - nothing. Let's go back to the banks. 15 billion euros were paid by taxpayers to resuscitate banks. They were sold for how much? It says in Mr. Letica's book, official data, for a billion euros. What's the value of these banks now? 40 billion euros. Would one of you do that? Would one of you here make you have let's have lower amounts if it had 15000 kuna, so they'll invest in one project and eventually sell for 1000 kuna. Here's your variant. No one in their right mind would do that, but no one in this country is responsible for that. Here, for the former authorities, the Split Bank was sold. It was sold to the Italians for 84m euros. The Italian immediately resells it to the Austrian at 136m euros and ultimately sells the Austrian to the French for a billion and some euros. It means what kind of work it is and would it be someone who has their own money if he had it that way? Well, of course you wouldn't have it. Only a fool can have it or a person who can benefit from it. Here, these are the facts that indicate that if we stop at this debate and we start only relativating the responsibility of any message we give to Croatian citizens. Let's go back to the metrics, and the metrics say that of 1556 cases 1481 has established illegality, irregularity and let's let some rule of law specifically affect these specific cases, not that everything stands on the side. And whoever can do it, we can do it. We're proposing a confiscation agency. A situation the Great Britain knows. I don't think the Constitution should be changed. If we need to change the Constitution, because this is what we're talking about from a civil point of view, from the point of view of real law, then we can agree on that too. I think these messages of that nature would mean clear messages, non-declaratory messages, not to say they're guilty, these are objectively, they're both guilty because they were in power, they didn't do this part, and the State's audit has found the facts. This is the part where I expect, where we from the Croatian Party Club of Rights expect a concrete step from a situation like this or similar. Also, the story is that the president of the government and the president of the state didn't know, I can't believe it because both of them are co-chairs of the National Security Council, so they get everything from the intelligence community. I guess they read what they get. So, second, I have to repeat the thing on September 6th of last year where you, President Shakespeare, were president of the council and then the meeting says, "Privatisation has fulfilled its purpose." Then you or the Prime Minister said there is no more need to revise conversion and privatisation, and the rest is 13%. And the banks stayed. Who protects that you can't get an audit into banks, that's what I'd like to hear. Why did you decide you couldn't get into the bank audit, why did you decide on the 13%? There are these answers that I want to hear, we from the Croatian Party Club of Rights and the Croatian public. So let's move from word to deed, move from declarator to real, show the will, go to the adoption of the Law on sanctioning illegality in conversion and privatisation, because it's the only way we're going to give a swing for the rule of law to work. What's happened so far is just proof of the inaction of the rule of law. For me, Operation Maestro just indicates not only that it wasn't, that it wasn't sanctioned illegality. However, they are still continuing. The people who are in the Fund they were the ones who allowed it in time, it's the handle 22 that the buyer, because every privatisation is essentially a purchase contract between the state represented by the Fund and the buyer where it's said you have to pay that much, you have to, or you have to capitalize, or you have to invest. However, it was not done, but the Fund allowed ownership to be transferred. Here's the truth of the law, so let's cut to the chase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91659	At this meeting, respected Mr Kovacevic, who you are talking about was where the top of the state was, with the most responsible representatives of the state's executive power, one conclusion has been made that there is no longer any reason to extend the law on the revision of conversion and privatisation because that deadline has been extended multiple times. And within that period, during which it has been extended for the last year, not a single request for revision of conversion and privatisation has come from the authorised applicants of the initiative. And the existing law still allows for today's revision of conversion and privatisation to be carried out. But good. Dear representative, correction of the incorrect quote Kruno Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91660	I guess you'll hear me now. Well, here's a few false allegations. One of them is to say we send no message to Croatian citizens. Well, no one can agree to this. First, the Croatian Democratic Community sent a clear message to Croatian citizens to fight corruption. And it's not just the Fund case. We have a whole series of other things. Take a look, read it, and you'll see that no one in this country is safe anymore. Second, a colleague wrongly and incorrectly balances irregularities and illegalities, which is not true at all. Irregularities in the conversion were, but these irregularities and confirmations of the State Audit Office did not affect privatisation at all. These were irregularities due to incomplete outdated books, cadastar excerpts, etc. And the illegality was significantly, significantly less, but we always like to add up that large number so let the people see what kind of thieves we are, right, all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91661	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91662	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Markovanovic, finished with this sentence, quotes him: "No one in this country is safe anymore.". And what, listen. It can be interpreted differently. It's not a very good message for either Minister Kirin or in a broader sense. But you see, so we've been talking about this problem for a long time, and this is a problem that is present in the Croatian public, and you know what people think about corruption, about crime. And we're politicians. We are politicians and people see us as those who are largely responsible for the current state of affairs in this country. Those who are in power more than others. So when something happens while someone is ruling, at this point it's HDZ with the help of several assistants, so it's certain that he's carrying, that this party is more responsible than the opposition party. You, when it comes to these problems of this four year period, are returning to a period of four years. But then if we go back to 17 years we'll see that HDZ has ruled for 13 years, four years coalitions. That's us, that's where no one's gonna bring us into this debate. I'd go back to what we politicians are. Look what kind of message we're sending people. People see us as a privileged caste, my lords, as a privileged caste which is not subject to the rules or laws of this country in the same way as those of other citizens of this country. It's the worst thing that can happen to anyone, especially all of us as politicians. And why do people think that? Well, you see, because somehow it turns out that there are so-called. in quotes of "ordinary people" which e.g. If you're a cleaning lady and they steal your broom, you're responsible for that broom. Or if you're a truck driver and you're carrying a load and you get drunk or you fall asleep or what I know I don't insult anyone and then five thieves come and take it away, then that driver's responsible for it. And you see, if you're a politician and a chairman of the board of directors, if there are five ministers there and they can rob everything they have, or half or a third or a seven. They're the only ones who don't answer in this country. And that ordinary man says, "Look at God, these politicians are some special people." In this country, there are ordinary people and some unusual people. And who are these unusual people? Politicians. I don't want to be such a politician. I'm not that kind of politician, and I don't agree to fit into the same basket, throws with politicians like that. And I say publicly not all politicians are the same. If there are thieves in politics, let's point to them among politicians, if there is an irresponsible point at them, but let's not say they're all the same. Because they're not all the same. And my dear gentlemen, once again, this debate reminds me of the debate on Brodosplit. And there's a minister, Mr. Vukelic, headed by the Supervisory Board, still is. What happened happened. The state's attorney's office has taken what they've done. He ate the wolf's cargo. Someone might get hurt. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not at all, who, Minister, Minister of the Government of Mr. Sanader. Now I'm wondering he's the chairman of the Supervisory Board, says I don't know they're over me. There were ministers here who said it was happening behind their backs. Well, gentlemen, my dear, it does not release you from your responsibilities, nor does that truck driver who fell asleep, so someone took the burden behind his back, so he got hurt pretty bad about it. Or that cleaning lady took the broom. What is the difference between us and other people? Nothing. If we endanger the equality of the people of this country, then we have compromised the foundations of what some here mentioned by calling for a legal state. All that we're looking for here, now we're talking about ourselves and some people who think like me are political responsibility politicians to work. If Marin Jurjevic is on the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board happens there, so I can't say that I didn't have time to read the materials or that they cheated on me, and I'm naive. And then you'll know what the people say, so when you're such a jerk, what they put you there. Or you're there for something else. Well, maybe somebody needs a fist. But, gentlemen, I think we should talk about this openly because we're talking about ourselves. About yourself. There's been a lot of talk today about the police, and here we've been told several times that we're bypassing the police's role in all of this. You see, dear gentlemen, we were all quite surprised by the first reactions, and even by the Prime Minister himself, he seemed pretty confused that first day, so he seemed less confused and eventually ran away here after yesterday's debate because what I'm going to do with you here, come on, you all day here, I'm going to go there, share a third war with someone there, etc. So I didn't take these people away from them but someone else, so let them return if they do. And it's a turn when you take someone to give it back to them. Otherwise, the people call it, how... And we returned Mr. Jarnjak a great deal, that's what you said when you were returning, then you refused what you claim we didn't return. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But your government, not the SDPs, has made a decision to rob the pensioners so much and so much of what's called a pension. Well, give it back, gentlemen, otherwise when you take someone you don't come back to, it's called a thief and it's punishable. But let's just ignore it. I'd go back to the police. You see, I'm also thinking of "Brodosplit." I've been talking here for a year, I've heard a lot of things about my family, and we haven't mentioned great-grandsons, I haven't got them yet, but I guess we'd talk about them, too, but we wouldn't talk about where that money went. The police administration of the Split-Dalmatia County conducted an investigation so zealously and so quickly that all Dalmatian snails arrived, they were still somewhere at the beginning. First thing they had in mind was public statements that there was no crime there. And then the State's Attorney's Office for the first time, as far as I know in Croatia, took over and prosecuted it without waiting for the police who apparently obstructed me, and that's what I've said here and I repeat, the investigation. Now I'm asking the minister, so Mr. Minister, what did you do to make these people at least friendly, you don't say that, it's not right, you know. ... It's good, it can be done like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, all right. Well, here's the answer. It's a shame Mr. Cobankovic left. He'd be asked about the state of police. When you don't have it, you're a politician, so you know. Well, you're together, you're in the same government, so you're the minister of police, so who am I going to ask instead of you? Who am I gonna ask? So ask the principal. I'm not gonna ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91663	You shouldn't be too curious.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91664	You shouldn't be too curious! Because it's absurd for me to say that we have to, because, for example, Here you go. I'm, like, a student or a student, I work as a baby sitter or a baby sitter, and I need money, I'm gonna go look after some apartment, some kid and I'm back to sleep, I'm drunk, and I don't know what, they take the diet and the apartment, and then it's not my fault because I reported it to the police. And when the police catch it, then they say what you're saying to me, so you can see he's in jail. But, sir, what did you allow? So were our ministers, and five of them were there, and Vukelic was there until the affair... So you removed him, it's a little bit for his ear pulled him out, not anymore. [[You don't understand.]] You see, there were five of them, for the government. And they say there's nothing wrong, because these gentlemen who are being blamed are currently in custody. There's nothing wrong, my dear gentlemen. Nothing's wrong, and that's the thing, and at least it's okay that you guys don't want to figure it out. It's just that you can't brag that you've achieved success because you've funded BUSKOL. That's what you, the citizens, must finance, not you. That's what the laws of this country are forcing you to do. So don't brag about doing what you're supposed to do. Gentlemen, we know who founded the Jump and who wasn't there for him. But now you are in power to forget everything, give for God do not boast of doing what is written in your job description. It's like a professor comes by and boasts, imagine today I've been teaching three hours, look at me... And what you're going to do is teach. [[You don't understand.]] The cleaning lady cleans up, the one driving, and the politician among other things try to be honest. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91665	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations and three replicas and one comment. This is a little hard to imagine you as a student. This as a student, especially the one who took the apartment away, right? Let's get some corrections. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91666	It's incorrect for the government to rule as an assistant rather than as a coalition partner, and you as a baby sitter would have to know, even if I didn't believe it because kids would get phrases if they saw you. And secondly, it is incorrect that the State Attorney's Office has filed criminal charges in any case without the police having previously collected the necessary information requested by the State's Attorney's Office. Well, in that case, in which case you said. I think you're closer to the baby sitter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91667	The second, Krunoslav Markovanovic, is the second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91668	Here's another string of inaccuracies. One of them says a colleague, that we're talking about ourselves. That's not true. So I think you could have heard all day talking about the successes of the MUP, the security services, the SCOK, the State's Attorney's office, and you're talking about the shift of our ministers. Furthermore, it's not true that you're concerned about the safety of all people because you quoted me here, but you're just concerned about your maestro leaders, and normally from your ranks, you forgot that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91669	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91670	... the course of extreme indifference. [[Specially enabled.]] You have already drawn attention to the incorrect allegations where counterpart Jurjevic claimed to be a student or student. On the second occasion, he said you're Marine Jurevic's dumbass. I think that's the kind of debate, so it offends itself. I think it's a serious issue, it's a serious request, and I would kind of appeal that this rest of it is seriously discussed and you give it a warning, you insult yourself, it's a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91671	I didn't hear that he was a respected representative that he said to himself that he was a jerk. Did he say that? I find it very slippery and slippery and delicate to enter these valuable vessels. Honorable representative Maria Byte. All I know is that there's been a baby sitter talk, but I'm not really a baby sitter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Jurjevic wrongly said that at the beginning of the "Maestro" action, the prime minister was confused. This is an incorrect allegation because the Croatian government is on 16 March 2006. The Croatian Parliament is proposed by the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption in 2006/2008 and the USKOK for such and similar actions is set at 6 million kuna. And according to the prime minister, it was against the repression of bribery, corruption and organised crime in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91673	Replica, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91674	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Constitution in Article 114, I quote: "The government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament, the president and the members of the government are jointly responsible for the government's decisions and are personally responsible for their work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have ministers who are members of the board of directors. This is, among other things, their field of work, and they have, in accordance with the Fund Act, actually done certain jobs on the Croatian Privatisation Fund or had to do certain jobs, and in this respect, there are a few more important things to point out. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should report once a year on the operation of the Fund under the law, and the assumption that it could do so should adopt an appropriate report by the Management Board. Now, of course, those financial business reports before their legality should be reviewed by the Supervisory Board. A very serious question arises or no one has done their job for which he had to work, and then again, according to the Constitution, he is responsible because he has not done the job he was entrusted with or if he was doing it then he has participated in everything that I don't believe, which is why I suppose a very simple situation which in this matter must be present and quite clear. The members of the Management Board, members of the Government who are members of the Management Board, cannot be freed from objective political responsibilities for the failures and actions that followed him and have enabled such anarchical and illegal situation which has led to serious doubts about criminal activities in the fund. And that is why I believe that the question is not whether or not there is a question, but whether this House wants to determine its responsibility, because Parliament determines the responsibility of government and individual ministers or not, and to what extent we will achieve it or not, it will achieve it, it will also speak of us as an entity that needs to ensure the implementation of the Constitution and the law in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91675	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91676	A colleague Arlović is right, but you see, he also explained what our ministers are obliged to do when they are on boards or boards of directors, etc., and people do not have time to read the laws or the Constitution, some of them are not interested, they just want to live normally, but when they hear that something is called the Management Board first, which occurs to them that someone who sits on the board of directors is there to manage otherwise would be called the Monitoring Committee, so there would be a group of HDZ observers who observes what is going on or isn't happening either the government or the SDP, or I don't know who or the citizens, but it's not logical for people to have no responsibility for those who are obliged to manage, and something happens like possibly some criminal action. And it's the same with the Supervisory Board. If it's called the Supervisory Board, it means someone's watching something. We had a case, it was this "Brodosplit" that I mentioned earlier that the minister said no to me, they were working behind my back, I didn't know, they cheated on me. So he didn't fulfill his mission, and that's to monitor it. And it seems to me that all together in this case and you need to explain to people what this is all about and how it is not the responsibility of those sitting there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91677	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91678	Comrade Jurjevic, you have rightly warned that of all corruptions, the most dangerous is the political one. It's a parent we could tell all the corruptions. It's not that street corruption, the corruption of the blue envelope that's being discovered here and there. She's dangerous. Why? Because you live in the very womb of the government, you can't see it, but the citizen feels it on his back, and it constantly impoverishes him and suppresses him. You're asking why the board members don't respond. Here you go, let's remember the case... The HYPO bank case, the case... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These were even some people who had been issued as great friends of some of the highest government officials, who are now interested in international law enforcement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us also remember that we have had a criminal offence just for the management structures, those who are sitting on boards and boards, but the law has been abolished. We have, as a two-time SDP club, renewed the whole thing and proposed this incrimination that is so much needed, where the state's attorney draws attention every year that we need this criminal act, that a whole series of things that are happening today are not possible under existing legislation because it lacks this legislative instrumentation. You are smooth, or smoothly refusing to include these incriminations in criminal law and in such a way as to be told by the government, you gain the impression of people not to deal with corruption, the government does not like competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91679	Replica response, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91680	It's an unmistakable class. Let's calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91681	It's the end of the semester.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91682	Yeah. It's been talked about nervousness before. I really don't know who's more nervous here. I agree with my colleague Antunov, Marinovic, that he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91683	I want you to agree who you agree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91684	I agree even with you when you said on the radio on the first program that when someone moves from one list to another list and finds himself corrupt, they should be punished. The HDZ came to Split with the help of two HSU council members, one became president, member of the Brodosplit Supervisory Committee, one member... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91685	But that doesn't mean it's corruption. It doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91686	... Just turn it off, that's all you got in your finger. [[Specially enabled.]] So, it's about that, he told Mr. Puljic that I appreciate as... Protect me from stupidity. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] That's impossible, so let me get out. He said when he wasn't for himself he wasn't for others either. It's terrible and it's a criticism of the former mayor, still current in Split. I am, we were about for him to be relieved, not because, as Mr. Sanader's advisor said when he's not for himself and others, such passwords will lead us all to ruin and we're not all the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91687	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91688	Thank you. Well, fellow Jurjevic, your debate has actually hit the goal and purpose or the topic of today's agenda, which is a question of the political responsibility of this government of course. What characterizes this government is the rejection of all responsibility and political and any other responsibility for everything that is wrong with thought, word and deed. And this creates a truly public opinion that forms that politicians are not responsible for anything. From that perception that politicians.../The speaker is off, so we're back online./... we're coming up with a complete erosion and a category of responsibility. Because if politicians are not responsible for the crime and corruption they were obliged to oversee,.../The speaker is excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91689	Please don't anyone accidentally press a key that threatens freedom of speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91690	So...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91691	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91692	If we accept that fundamental feature of the government that refuses political responsibility and it is not only the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it is the attitude and parliamentary majority, we send a very toxic message to the Croatian public because if the politician.../The speaker is turned off and re-enabled./... there is no other responsibility and after the erosion of all the moral values of any other form of value we come to an erosion of responsibility...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91693	Okay. Thank you. Marin Jurevic, please. There's more coming out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91694	And, Mr. President, you could have extended me considering how many times I've been interrupted. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91695	I agree with my colleague Lalić because the really worst thing that can happen to us is that we turn.../The speaker off, and then turn it back on./... I suggest that an IQ test be introduced for candidates for the lists of any political party. A lot of people around here wouldn't be making a mess like this today. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'd be, you'd be... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91696	Please...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91697	You'd be, first learn your manners, don't yell off the bench, pick up the word there's Mr. President, you'll all get your turn, there's applications. Read how the Parliament behaves. So the worst thing for everyone will be if we turn into a caste that's isolated from the people. Then it won't matter to you what difference you are, which party you are, and there won't be any difference between us. I don't agree to that. And I'll never say yes. And I repeat again. We're not all the same. If there are those who support corruption, etc., we discover them ourselves, and we will do the greatest good not only for this society but for ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91698	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91699	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, so far, we've been praying to Prime Minister Sanader, so we've been praying to Mr. Polancec, Mr. Cobankovic, here, I'm now asking Mr. Calmett. Mr. Kalmeta! Have you submitted a financial report to the Governing Board of Government and the Supervisory Board, and what were the decisions? So far, we've been praying here, and I demand that we be told this debate today. But here's to going back to the Croatian Privatisation Fund and what the government was supposed to do to those conclusions. I would remind you of what the State Audit Office found in the privatisation of what it found in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Well, I'll take my turn. In some cases, the best bidders have not been selected. In the '93 period. Until '97. in certain cases no more offers have been collected. The documentation on the sale of shares or shares is not carefully delayed and stored. It has been agreed on the right to share shares and shares which did not encourage the purchasers of shares or shares to orderly settle their obligations. No interest has been fixed for the payment period. In the same period of time, different interest rates are agreed or are not agreed at all. The additional investment of capital offered is not contracted or negotiated in amounts less than that offered. In addition to the contract in the sale of shares, the provisions of the basic contract relating to the additional investment of capital have been deleted or the amount of the additional investment has been reduced. Contractors are not broken up in due time, but with a delay of up to three years. And don't let me count on it. I just want to remind you that this whole thing wouldn't have been possible if there wasn't an organization. And I'm going to read you a definition of what kind of organization it was. A criminal organisation shall be a structured association of at least three persons who exist during a given period and act with a common objective of committing one or more crimes for direct or indirect influence, acquisition of financial or other material benefits, or with the aim of achieving or retaining supervision of certain economic and other activities, and shall involve criminal acts for which a sentence of at least four years or more may be imposed. A criminal organization is the cornerstone of organized crime. I know you'd be very glad it's the status of any party but it's not. This is the USCOD Act that we brought here to the Parliament. I didn't want to go back in time, and I didn't want to take back what was not our mandate. However, all of this with the conclusions of the Parliament that we have come to must be about our mandate. And I want to remind you of the 3rd conclusion that we brought here in the Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community. It undertakes the Croatian Privatisation Fund to launch, on the basis of all reports of the State Audit Office, irregularities and illegalities in the conversion and privatisation and reports of the State Attorney's Office as an authorised legal person of appropriate judicial, administrative proceedings, in order to recover the property benefit obtained illegally by natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation. Gentlemen, this is a commitment that we gave to the government and the Privatisation Fund. And this is the report from the State Audit in which the audit described exactly what they were supposed to do. And I repeat, did they give financial reports? We didn't get the answer. So they're not. And you now claim that we have no basis to seek political responsibility. We're not even asking if this is about red, white, purple, or if I don't know which government. We've been talking about the Privatisation Fund since the beginning of his project. If you don't know who the Fund's bosses were, I can read them to you. In my time here in the Parliament, I said that it was very likely that all the presidents of the Fund were supposed to play from here. You remember that because it was very lush, very tumultuous your reaction when I said it. I don't care who it is. I don't care at all. I'm curious that this, you can trust me or not. It's your right, but I'm telling you what I expect. I expect the Government and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to implement the conclusions of the Parliament and these conclusions concern the findings of the State Audit. Is that what they've done so far? No, they're not. I'm not talking about some other government that needs to report to someone else. To us, gentlemen. And I'm not surprised at those who are second, third, fourth term. I'm surprised at those who are now in the first term. Gentlemen, we're here, I hope you're unsullied in this House. And I expect us to at least be a little critical of the whole robbery that's been going on in the past. And that's why I expect you gentlemen from HDZ... Mr. Matusic, if you wanted to clean up that yard, then you'd do something about it, according to these findings of the State Audit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then it would be cleaning both yours and ours and any yard in this country. That you wanted to do it. You didn't mean to do it. And that's why we expect you gentlemen to see that when there's a vote of mistrust between the ministers and the government that your conscience is working and that you realize that you're protecting... Maybe not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't believe it too much, but maybe somebody's wrong and they vote wrong. But we'll ask, we'll ask for a public vote, and we'll hear someone come forward, but I expect you to have your conscience working and try to think about the future of this Croatia. And to try to think that way that, that affairs should finally end. At least some of them started. I hope you are so aware, aware and responsible for your children that you will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91700	Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91701	Thank you. Well, my colleague Kapraljevic, when you called me, I'd be happy to tell you that I insisted and demanded, you said that I did not show good will to continue the process. I've certainly shown good will and asked for answers from both the State's Attorney's office and here in the Parliament, but we have to admit one fact that we're a legal state. We can't talk like you and your compatriots or your SDP buddies about someone who's a criminal if it's not really proven. Thus, we do not want to use such methods. Those methods have long been behind us. With these methods, we broke up the moment we fought for a democratic state. Therefore, I am very interested in the answers that your vice president of the party in conflict of interest, proven in the conflict of interest, is not where he should be? I'm very interested in the answers. And since he took 20 million, you know where he should be. [[/Intruder: Where should it be?]] How he took 20 million marks for the retirement home and that job didn't end. Why was the statute of limitations for him? Why is it outdated for him and for the rest of the citizens there is no statute of limitations? What are the criteria? That's what we're interested in, and we want to clear these up, and only then will we have the rule of law right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91702	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91703	My colleague Matušić did not correct my allegations at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91704	No, he fixed something else but an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91705	He did not correct my incorrect quote, Article 210.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91706	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91707	And what did he do right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91708	Well, that's where you appealed to consciousness, to conscience, to HDZ, to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91709	And what did he say in his correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91710	He was correcting your claims as incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91711	That's not what he said. Ask him. [[Intruder: How is it not?]] [[I'll explain later if you don't get it right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91712	Well, buddy, I'm listening. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is Mr. Kapraljevic, Mr. Kapraljevic said there was no will to resolve corruption. I can argue that the will to resolve corruption has been shown. And that was proved by this action that was carried out. In order for this action to be implemented, it was necessary to make several laws that had been made and therefore it was possible to carry out this action secretly not to leak and to prevent it. Speaking of which, I have to tell you that during the former government conflict of interest has been made in this House that there is no man in conflict of interest if he has property of up to 25% of any company. That law was made for certain people, and you know it well. For certain people who had shares in some companies and companies. Well, that's the political corruption that the SDP lady was talking about earlier. I ask if it is political corruption and that a part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is granted to another country. It's political corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91714	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91715	Well, if a colleague suspects the inaccuracy of the correction, I must say this one must be correct. Well, we're the new HDZ, aren't we, uh, 53 out of the 63 that we're about to do in the Parliament? We haven't done anything that isn't true. We brought along our more experienced colleagues and other people of good faith the National Anti-Corruption Programme. But it's true that we haven't passed the I.Q. test, and this is what it says to you. If you answer all the questions, I have no idea you'll become, for example, the president of the SDP. So how could a man not come to Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91716	Damir Sesvečan, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91717	Mr. President, Mr. Kapraljevic says that affairs should end by insinuating that this government is not ending them which is not true. In fact, I'm going to give an example of how this government and the Ministry of the Interior are going to end an affair. It's a PIC affair, Vrbovec. Right now, if you're not familiar with the ongoing trial of the president of a former so-called management. The crisis manager, which was imported from the United States by the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund with Mr Linic, is a Slovenian citizen imported from New York, some kind of phantom firm, a crisis management that received 500 000 kuna, more than 500 000 kuna per month for their work during some three years as they did these jobs at PIC Vrbovac, and has estranged what has therefore been determined by the criminal application of the Ministry of Interior of some 17 million kunas. So for two years, this person has been in prison. The trial is under way and this is an example of how one of the rather large affairs ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91718	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91719	Thank you very much, Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. If this whole day and perhaps half-night debate at the end of this debate is a result of a change that will follow in the further course of privatisation, or if it will follow as a result of the correction of errors that have occurred since the 1990s on here, then it could be said that both citizens and we who represent citizens should be relatively satisfied, because of course it should be the meaning of some work, some act. At the very beginning, let me remind you a little bit, I know it may have been a reminder, but I would still like to remind you of how we got to what we're discussing today. The transformation of social enterprises, social enterprises and their further privatisation is certainly, can be characterized in the Republic of Croatia as one of the most dramatic redistributions of social wealth that has caused a whole series of misunderstandings and a whole series of reasons, for less reason and for many reasons injured and those who have in some way assessed that the previous conversion process, and after that, privatisation from loneliness to this day, has been negative. Of course, such an opinion is obviously shared not only by most MPs, but also by citizens who, of course, have an opinion on it. Of course, it should be taken into account that Croatia from the former Yugoslav economy really came out of one specific system that still had one specific system of governance of social goods compared to other socialist and communist countries. Of course, the model chosen, which was closer to the Russian model compared to the Slovenian model located across Croatia, has in some way determined the course and way of privatising goods in the Republic of Croatia. What is very important to note is that there was a belief unfortunately that in some heads still exist today, which is that privatisation will achieve the overall goals that are to be achieved, that the fact that something from state property has been transformed into private is enough to create so-called well-being, that in itself the process will produce results. Unfortunately, neither was it happening, nor was it economic at all, nor was it a real prerequisite for that to happen. Of course it's property in the second grade when it comes to the way a company will operate successfully or unsuccessfully. Management is the one who definitely decides what the company balance will look like and what it will eventually do. Just when this function was lost through privatisation, through the Law on Privatisation, which is said to be no one, no structure of government since its adoption, and to this day has found enough courage and strength to redecorate it and try to translate it into another way to strengthen the middle civil layer, that privatisation has one mass character, that it is not exclusively intended for certain people, but unfortunately continued in the same direction, and that same direction always gives the same and always relatively bad results. Of course, when we have such a matrix, it is very difficult to expect some significant and more powerful changes. And that is why this debate, of course, gives the right to talk about it and spread it and the rope, but it actually gives it a way to talk through it and how the way out of this situation should be. How should privatisation continue? How could the irregularities identified by the audit be sanctioned? How do you just give me a message that we'll be working tomorrow? I don't think anybody's going to say today in their right mind that this law and this way of privatization is good. Because if he was good, then we wouldn't be discussing the results today. Because you know, you can't keep removing the shortcomings by confirming the reasons why these shortcomings happened. And we do this whole syssif thing all the time. So I think it's time we even tried to respect the fact that this is pre-election time. Well, so be it. Pre-election time is not only to try to challenge something but also to say something new and try to open a new page. That is why I would remind this one, and that has not yet happened, the prime minister announced the termination of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I guess he gave up or decided to wait a little while. I would absolutely remind him that it was necessary to terminate immediately and that he should have done so. He should have done so because the Croatian Privatisation Fund, regardless of what some of them said, would still be, and if something new is set up, I don't think it is. It is not because it is simply a name that causes enough caution and enough of those reactions that are perfectly natural that it should be abolished immediately. And I think we should absolutely do that. What should we do when he's gone? I think it should be modeled again to some neighbouring countries that have better dealt with it, and those who have better solved it should admit that they have done better, that they should set up an agency that would have a two-sided or would have two main functions. The first function is the one that simply did not exist in Croatia, which is a function of state property management. A function that needs to be managed by the property you've been given to manage. The Croatian Privatisation Fund had no function, no management function today. He failed to impose management relations, he failed to create a new value, but he degraded the property, existing values, reduced the market values of companies and, of course, damaged the vast majority of Croatian citizens because they were jobless, because the decrease in the value of the stock, because there were speculatory jobs either in the company's collapse, etc. So the first part would refer to the Department of State Property Management. It should avoid the political frameworks in which we are now exposed to rely on fully professional, professional and management which has a fundamental task to effectively and quality asset management. Politics in that sphere should have nothing. When I say nothing I don't think at all, she has her place but not in this part. Of course, it is a prerequisite for us to bring in what the HSS has suggested not to have ministers for God on boards. And we think the time has matured to accept it almost unanimously. The second department of the State Property Management Agency would be the Department for Sale and Privatisation Affairs, which should, of course, be completely depolitised and transferred to that market place which today in the Republic of Croatia gives more quality results in terms of sales and transfer of values and capital than that of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And what is most important is to say it is necessary to introduce a new institute, the decentralisation of the real estate and privatisation system according to the principle of territoriality. It's very important to get that institute back, he was in his own time trying to aphidify himself in some way, but he didn't succeed. But trust me, decentralisation on a territorial basis is a good model to take different care of those good ones, especially strategic enterprises, whose privatisation should now come in order not to have the same mistakes again. And of course we should finally determine the property of this society that won't go to privatisation. Which won't go into privatisation. I think that we can create a certain concept right now, because it's definitely that we have to protect certain assets. But that doesn't mean that we need to put her aside, but that we need to protect her and the good management so that they don't fail, but to rise, to establish this very new mechanism that I have proposed. Therefore, if this debate would at least make it possible for the continuation of privatisation to be directed by models that would be more efficient, clearer, more transparent, if the Croatian Privatisation Fund were to be abolished immediately and a new agency should be established according to different criteria which would respect, and, of course, as a prerequisite for all of this, a new Privatisation Act should come out which should represent a single Croatian consensus so as not to be a subject on which only a pre-election spear is sharpened rather than a common step that all will link equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91720	Yes, thank you very much. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91721	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, my colleague Markov said a lot. I would most agree with this when he speaks for himself about what was going on in the Fund in 2000 to 2003. And I'd like to supplement it, replicate it if he'd forgotten one of the criminal charges that went up in 2002. And so I'm going to confirm his interpretations that the Fund and that the BOOK and that the State's Attorney's Office and that the police at the time were under the wing of politics and that she wasn't doing her job properly. Because if the former Director of the Fund, Stipe Krkač, as well as Deputy Krešimir Starčević, as well as a series of large mangoes such as Franjo Luković, Milan Vončina, Mijo Lorković and others on this list, which is 8 would surely have been from these relevant indicators and the fact that they destroyed Dujan Slatin, as opposed to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and how ultimately and contrary to the conclusion of the Competition Agency destroyed Dujan in Slatina. These are your misdeeds, not your deeds. And USCOCK didn't work because you wouldn't let him or give him enough money to do this big job with big beasts at stake. And I would therefore like to make it clear that this application by the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime is not from the useless people, but from then on, the directors Kolarić from Dujan Slatina is by the Attorney's Office, the joint Krunoslav Ujević and Branislav Hajdukovic. It's said to have been withdrawn. Who can withdraw from USKOK what is justified and what is written clearly and unequivocally what has been done with the destruction of the tobacco factory in Slatina, i.e. Tobacco d.d. Like Agroduhan. It's your work. That's your jump. It's work correct and quality. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91722	By your deeds, you will be known. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91723	First, I don't think this society should rest on action against corruption, but this society should rest on building a legal system. And when you want this "Maestro" action that has given three sub-class officials to me, it's not spectacular at all. Spectacular may be her results. In this case, three lower-ranked fund officials wouldn't call it spectacular. The Fund also had problems during the coalition government, but far more had problems at the start of the fund when it started with its actions, and the results of these actions should not be looked through this either during the time, but through the feeling that the citizens had not received the basic objective of privatisation, which is to create a new good, to create new jobs and to privatization that should have been in the interest of citizens. Therefore, it is another reason to change such a method.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91724	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91725	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I just want to replicate my colleague Markov. Regarding your proposal to abolish the fund and set up an agency and have the agency shut down tomorrow and set up a C, D and B institute, and I don't know what not. Not a colleague of Markov's in this term for Croatia. The thing is, it has to start working correctly, professionally, that there has to be order. We had a board of directors in a fund that didn't run. We had a Supervisory Board that didn't monitor. We had a board of directors with ministers who didn't write reports bound by Article 12. The law on the privatisation fund. Therefore, ministers did not directly comply with the law, carry out their minimum obligations towards the Fund, according to the Government which should have analysed those reports, according to the Supervisory Board which was to be analysed. There was nothing. There was no work, no order, no honesty, no correctness. If that's how it works at the agency, there'll never be a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91726	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91727	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You went to deny me, and you gave exactly enough reasons why the Croatian Privatisation Fund should be abolished. I don't think that proud knot of a colleague can unburden anyone with the best will. I think even with the best will, the most transparent ways of making this many problems that have been put on this fund at this moment are impossible by these measures that you're talking about putting it on its right feet. Therefore, its abolition, at the same time the establishment of an agency on other foundations, on other principles and in other ways fully exposed to the public and in a way that those institutions that are now successfully participating in the transfer of capital to the markets of the Republic of Croatia, those people who have proven themselves as people who successfully run companies, I think we can trust them with this part of the privatisation, but that we can trust these and such people with the management of state-owned companies and I said we have to decide what we will not privatise.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91728	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91729	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government. There's really a lot of things being said today, but all we heard from the government today was I had no idea, I didn't know, they were doing behind my back. I think it would be enough just to turn around and see what's going on at the Privatisation Fund, then even the public would believe that you didn't know, but you should have reacted. I don't think there's anyone here who hasn't welcomed the "Maestro" action and we're not talking about the "Maestro" action here, but about the political responsibility and political behaviour of the sitting ministers, not only in the board of directors of the Privatisation Fund, but also in other supervisory committees, for example. in "Brodosplit" where there was really big corruption, or money laundering. And that's why I have to admit that I don't share this euphoria with the government when it comes to fighting corruption. Why don't I share? That this is the tenth Maestro in a row, for example. If it were the tenth then it could really be said that this government has success in fighting corruption and then the government would be praised not only by citizens, but also by this opposition, but also by the European Union. Unfortunately, this is only the first "Maestro" at the end of this government's term, so it comes at the end, and not at the beginning, and this is what I would say is a pure copy of the former pure-handed action in Italy. I'd almost say in such a pattern that it's done that Maestro is part of the action plan and the action plan in three steps. The first step is the driver of Minister Calmeta. The second step is the vice-presidents of the Privatisation Fund, and the third step should be early in the fall, and for the finals there would have to be some kind of ministerial rank in the net. I don't know why, but I can't help but think that the next victim will be the one sitting amongst the Government and sitting on the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And as much as the political responsibility of government members has now been defended, I think there will be political casualties in the end. The rumors are already being broken by a member of the government who told 8 people at a meeting at the Privatisation Fund that he has a buyer for "Dalmatia Wine". A very careless statement, and if it turns out to be true, I think it's going to be a new affair that the public is really going to have fun with. The European Union is looking for a head because of corruption and not anyone else's. Obviously political. So, gentlemen Ministers, ask yourselves who will now sit on Zrinjevac in just a few months after this session instead of in the Assembly. I'll just remind you how much anger there was here in this assembly when the "Brodosplit" affair opened a year ago, how the government was protecting the former management of "Brodosplita," how angry she was when the whole affair was going on. She protected Minister Vukelic, who is today at the head of the Watch Committee "Brodosplit" although for example. On the Internet you can see a stenogram of the session of the Supervisory Board where exactly you can see that Minister Vukelic knows everything. But he's not carrying any political responsibility. It's interesting that there was no "Maestro" action who knew what the fate of Minister Calmeta would have been and what else would have come out in public about his driver. Some villains would say that Maestro saved Minister Calmett's misery. It probably is. And it's been successfully distracted from this story. I see that this moment the prime minister does not allow the political responsibility of his ministers, nor these ministers, nor the Minister Vukelic, who has been pulled out of the story of the Privatisation Fund in April when he was removed from the fund for no reason whatsoever, without any argument, so we have to tell the lucky man in this story, because this would be his second affair. And that is why this action acts as a pure one, I would say the government's pre-election move, which is faced with numerous examples of corruption, I have experienced criticism from the public but I have experienced criticism from the European Union. And as I said, Europe is looking for a great name on the plate as Herod's wife sought the head of John the Baptist, but I don't believe that the one who suffers will be innocent as the John the Baptist, but far from being the real culprit for the missing millions from Pliva, the Brodoplita, the Liburnia, the "Sun-Hvara" you see, without publishing the contract. ... The report arrives at the 10th month, and therefore it must be positive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government must show that it is fighting corruption. We need to help out here, too, all together. But that's why one of the ministers, who today defends the prime minister until September, will be handed over to the polls as the main brain of corruption. And that's why this is a politically controlled fight against corruption. When President Mesic, on the eve of the "Maestro" action, said that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is a matter of corruption, and all of you sitting in that bar of corruption are silent, what does a man think? He must seek the political responsibility of the ministers sitting in the leg of corruption. The Prime Minister first said he did not know about the action, then changed the story and said the action was a success of his government, a government that did not know about the action. Excellent success. You, Vice President Polancec, for a moment you knew, for a moment you didn't know about the action, then you say everyone doesn't have to know everything, it's all right. But why did some know, and you who are so clean all over the story couldn't know about the action? Why is the action off? She was interrupted because one of the paid and tapped suspects that he was being tapped. So the question is, who suspected that he was being tapped and who tipped him off? And it's very interesting how the action is now abruptly interrupted. After your statement by Vice President Polancec, or after a suspect's statement that you knew about the murky affairs in the fund, the statements suddenly became secret. Why are the statements secret? Who's protecting himself with that secret? Something else didn't remain a secret that I think was supposed to remain a secret, which is that the identities of the agents working on the action have been published. The question is, why are these agents being sold out? Certainly these people deserve a round of applause for their actions, but the secrecy of their identity is a prerequisite for the success of some future actions. Now, is there an investigation into who broke in? And in the end, we will soon witness where this action of Maestro will go. The chief of police says there will be more arrests, the prime minister says anyone who is guilty has already been arrested, immediately brought down any responsibility with his government members and apparently put some kind of barrier to where the investigation could go. But you don't need to get carried away. The fall is coming, and as the pressures get closer, another victim of this story will fall. Unfortunately, there is very little information about the fund's work. The Board of Supervisors appointed by this Assembly did not report to the Parliament even though he was obliged to do so every year. I hope that President of the Parliament will put on the agenda a report on the work of the Privatisation Fund all four years before the Privatisation Fund is abolished. And I simply don't understand this working group that was formed to prepare an organisational solution to the takeover of business from the part-line of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. In that task force, the Office of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Interesting and Security Intelligence is sitting. What do security intelligence services have to do with the Privatisation Fund? Well, I guess that's where economists, respected experts, advisors, and not security intelligence should sit. I'm afraid someone's completely lost the compass to a lot of panic. And let me finish. Unfortunately, if this was the tenth action in a row, I would really congratulate you. We expect this "Maestro" to have results by autumn, so I'm sure you'll defend your ministers tonight, but the prime minister will bring them down somewhere in the fall, as usually happens in his practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91730	The autumn is coming, my dune! Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91731	Well, a colleague incorrectly stated that HDZ would sacrifice its minister and that he would meet at Zrinjevac. So a colleague from experience knows best when HDZ sacrifices ministers or ministers he finds himself in the media. There's no show, there's no male, female magazine that doesn't find the minister. And if he moves eventually, then he's supposed to move to Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91732	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91733	He violated Article 208, 209 and did not correct any incorrect allegations at all. He expressed his opinion, showed his natural animosity toward everything that was going on, and apparently he is in charge of spit on parliamentary deputies who do not think the way he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91734	Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91735	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! That's what Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt was saying. I must remind all of us here that in 2004, we passed the Law establishing ministries and central authorities of the state administration where it was said to stop working on the Privatisation Fund and that its affairs would be taken over by the Central State Property Management Office. That's as much as the government knows about it and she's starting working groups. True, then on behalf of the club, I said what kind of solution is that when the fund is not told when it will stop and when will the Central State Property Management Office take over? I don't know if the government gentlemen know that. Look at the Law establishing ministries and central authorities of the state administration. So in the transitional, final provisions you have that the fund will stop working and that its affairs will be taken over by the central state office. And that's probably why Grga Ivesic was appointed secretary of state. Now, you need to explain why you're creating new situations now. And what you said, I can't believe the President of the State and the Prime Minister didn't know about this operation. It could have happened that they didn't know if they hadn't read the security reports. The two are co-chairs of the National Security Council and each week security services provide information to them. And there's no way Karamarko might keep the presidents from doing what he's doing. So it's a story for little kids, they knew both of them, and we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91736	Replicate response, distinguished representative of the Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91737	I think you're missing out here in these two who knew about the whole action and the President of the Parliament who's also a member of the National Security Council and is getting information. However, I think that you are right when you said that the Government should have abolished the Croatian Privatisation Fund a long time ago, it was also a promise and it is unfortunate that now, in the end, the abolition of the Privatisation Fund is happening for entirely other reasons. The fund is being abolished because of corruption, so the ministry can't rebuild and develop because corruption has been found there. Of course it will not be abolished and institutions should not be abolished for corruption because there is no guarantee and a newly established institution that there will be no corruption in it. The government has therefore failed to deliver on the pre-election promise in this matter and has now quickly used the situation to abolish the Privatisation Fund at the end of its term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91738	The President of the Parliament shall participate in the work of the National Security Council under the Security Services Act. He's a part of the work. He receives these reports, but those reports were not what was not in the reports of either the President of the Republic or the Government. ... Well, when I saw it wasn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I saw it in the paper. Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91739	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. When this Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund took responsibility for the institution, we found over 3,000 court disputes that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is leading with buyers of shares that do not fulfil their obligations. Most of these 3,000 court disputes are largely related to disputes initiated by the Privatisation Fund against inadequate customers, thus failing to fulfil their obligations. That's one of the problems. We all know that there's always been a suspicion of the Privatisation Fund that since it came into existence, ever since it's been set up there, they've been known to happen and there's been dishonest acts happening. That is why I also spoke in my first address about what control mechanisms we have tried to introduce in order to make the privatisation and management process of state property as transparent as possible, public tenders, the opening of offers in the presence of the media and the public notary, open sessions of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, a new software system that helps evaluate individual offers. I must say that we have improved the sensitive and contracts we sign with the customers of individual shares. In these contracts, we're installing that an integral part of the contract and the business plan we're asking for to be delivered by bidders on public tenders. We are also looking for an investment plan, we are also looking for a ban on the burden of shares and a ban on the burden on property that is in the core capital, i.e. the property of the company. All of these are novelties introduced in the term of office of this Government and in the term of office of this Management Board of the Privatisation Fund. Such same control mechanisms did not have a previous board of directors in the term of the coalition government. So when we started to privatise, when the Fund for Privatization was established, the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund was 3 thousand and 500 companies, and 3 thousand court disputes were found. No company currently owned by a majority state is a company which is not burdened with outstanding property relations or which is not burdened with excessive obligations that this company cannot implement or resuscitate. The Maestro Croatian Government is responsible for the action by ensuring legal preconditions, technical and material preconditions. 197 employees are in the Privatisation Fund today. The President of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund or a member of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund cannot know who, when, after working hours and which occasion he drinks coffee. We at this point as much as you want to or don't want to hear it, we don't know exactly which dishonest actions the arrests are suspected of. At this point, we do not know what decisions have been made by the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, which are going to harm the state of Croatia and which have caused damage to the property of the Republic of Croatia. At this point, we do not know what decisions the Privatisation Fund may have made, so it is not the Fund Management Board that is going to harm the property of the Republic of Croatia. We also do not know at this time when the investigation takes place when those decisions have been made, in the term of office of this Management Board or in the term of office of a previous board of directors. And that's why it hurts me as a man to think in this High House people who, in the best possible way possible, are trying to do their jobs, you call thieves, I mean here on the board of directors of the Fund, as it hurts, and it hurts when some of you call some of us dumb, it seems to me that it would be that term that you used, because we're neither thieves nor we're dumb. Let the investigation go on, there is no one who is more interested at this time than me and my colleagues in the Management Board of the Fund, to complete the investigation and show which these are dishonest actions, which are decisions, who made them and when and at what point, which is why the state of Croatia has experienced and suffered damage. But when I was talking about contracts like we sign, I have to tell you, and I have to go back a little bit just to the past and the situation where three big and valuable hotels in Dubrovnik were sold. Hotel Excelsior was sold without the obligation to invest in the hotel. There is no obligation to impose no burden, therefore, on the mortgage of that company or the property of that company. There is no ban on selling or burdening real estate. There's no business plan that's supposed to be an integral part of the contract, but there's something halfway across the page. At the Bellevue Hotel, there's no plan to develop society with all this before it's listed. And at the Kompas Hotel, which was signed, on sale on 19.12.2003, so on Friday, the tabular document was issued on Monday 22.12.2003 a month after the parliamentary elections. What I still want to draw your attention to. It implies that these three vice presidents are some kind of star we've chosen. I would like to tell you that all three offers for the purchase of these three hotels were presented and proposed to the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, a gentleman named Robert Pesa, who is one of the detainees within the "Maestro" action. So who was a very high-ranking man at the Privatisation Fund back then. As for your wise words, Mrs. Parliament MPs Skare-Ozbolt, "Dalmacija-Vino" once said no major privatisation project, none of the companies in which we have more than 50% of the ownership today, and each of these companies is trusted me with cumbersome problems, unresolved property-legal issues, situations in which certain properties are built on maritime good as here. It cannot be prepared for privatisation without members of the Management Board or of the chairman of the Management Board of the Fund being under preparation for the privatisation of such a society. I certainly did not suggest to anyone the way to Monte Carlo, taking bribes and drinking coffee, but I had to be responsible and familiar with the process of preparing every such privatisation society. I never said we had a safe buyer for "Dalmation Wine." What I said in front of those 8 people, and there were no 8 but there were always many more people, is the fact that despite the problems of unresolved property-legal relations, despite the fact that there is an unresolved issue of maritime good, I am convinced that Dalmation-Wine can be privatized and there is an interest in "Dalmation-Wine". And as for suggesting that I could meet you in the ninth or any other month somewhere else, don't mind me, but ever since you're no longer in government, your rhetoric has turned into a rhetoric of a injured woman. The woman who cheated on her husband and after that she got After that, the marriage fell apart and after that [[The intruders don't understand.]] And after that... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91740	All right, change your rhetoric a little bit. They get it wrong. Vice President, a little bit. [[Thank you very much.]] Don't use those metaphors.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91741	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91742	Let's go. All right, well, that's the metaphor one you guys, peace! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91743	So as far as responsibility is concerned, as far as you're concerned, you're looking for political responsibility at a time when I don't know and when the investigation hasn't yet identified what are the decisions that are harmful to the Republic of Croatia, who made them, at what point did they take them? And I want to tell you something else. The State Audit Office has been auditing operations in the privatisation fund every year. The State Audit Office submitted its report to the Croatian Assembly and here it is discussed every year. The State Audit Office is all that has been potentially controversially delivered to both the State Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office is that, as is the case with errors in the business of the Fund, it initiates or does not initiate criminal charges and requires criminal liability. And he's running investigations. The DORH has all the reports of the State Audit Office, and as far as the business reports are concerned, it has also been submitted to the chairman of the Privatisation Fund Supervisory Board. And in the Privatisation Fund Supervisory Board, there are many more members from the opposition parties and everyone could request an audit of the business or supervision of the operations of the Privatisation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91744	Thank you. ... [[Intruder: We will beg a break.]] Take it easy. If you use some metaphors such as a cheating wife or a cheating husband or something, then Mr. Vice President, you need to take care of one sensitivity to, that one perception can be created in MPs and MPs, one perception that you didn't want to cause. So be very careful and careful with those metaphors. Because it can be viewed in one part really in such a way as to use the birthmark in an inappropriate way and the like. So please let's be careful with that. And now there has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91745	Mr. President of the Parliament has been injured by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament I will say from the 1st to the last article of this Rules of Procedure because you are a member of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government has allowed her to insult here from this pay phone one parliamentary representative and that as a woman. So it's a gender insult. I'm sorry you didn't react in a way to take away his word in the end line. Because if it's from a member of the government, it's still too much from this constituency. This only strengthens me in my efforts to change something in the Rules of Procedure, and it is especially necessary to change the relations of government members towards MPs and MPs in this House. And it doesn't matter what he's alluding to a woman here right now, I'd have reacted the same way if he'd told a parliamentary representative. It is simply inadmissible in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91746	I've already said during the debate Vice-President Polancec [[Intruder: He may be ashamed!]] be sensitive and careful with the use of such metaphors. [[Intruder: Yes, and he may be ashamed!]] It's not unusual in both the political jargon and the vocabulary to use metaphors of a similar nature. But you don't need to take it literally immediately and take it as if it were purposely targeted, targeted offensive... according to one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not, don't, don't ask for your last intention right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Targeted and intentional.]] If you use me to say one metaphor...... If such metaphors are used, such metaphors are often used. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please! Let's not raise the temperature right now, so we'll lift. Comrade Linic, what's the matter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91747	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break because of the government's misbehaving and not taking words of insult from the pay phone. Fifteen minutes break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91748	A colleague of Linic's, against. I gave one warning to the Deputy Prime Minister. A warning to take a word out and nothing is in charge of the Parliament's president. The word can be taken away. You can't just take away a word. It can be warned, then warned. I warned you. Don't insist on asking for a break now. There's not 15 minutes. I'll give you a break. Ten minutes, please take a break. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I'll say something first. I sincerely regret this situation that has arisen. I sincerely regret the use of words that can also cause doubt, which can be interpreted, understood in the way in which one part of my fellow MPs and advocates of that word and understood. I think that, in any case, the Vice-President of the Government should have been far more careful and he had to make sure that both such illustrations and such metaphors could be interpreted independently of his intention in such a way. I'm saying I'm truly sorry. I warned him not to go through with it, to stop it. Unfortunately, there were these protests where part of the MPs and MPs realized in this way that it was an offensive one. And that voice to the public in that direction should also be respected. Vice President Polancec, I demand that you apologize in a certain way to these metaphors, to express your regret for them and to understand and understand that you should be very careful and delicately treated by members and MPs and all of these possible such metaphors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91750	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, dear Madam Assembly MPs, the distinguished ladies of the Assembly and all the women who have heard my words, I am truly sorry that it has come to them. My deep apology to you personally and to all the women and all the parliamentary deputies. I really didn't mean to offend or hurt anyone with my own words. It's neither my style nor my way of handling it. And whoever gets hurt because of what I said, believe me, no matter how much someone gets hurt, it's even harder for me that it happened to me. 'Cause I say it one more time, I'm not that kind of man, so I don't communicate. And my deep apology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91751	On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91752	The SDP Club condemns the procedure of the Deputy Prime Minister and the behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister. In fact, we estimate that it is the style of rule that demonstrates the vice-president of the government in the Croatian Parliament. A style of conduct that speaks when there are no arguments, when it cannot be addressed to the council representatives with evidence, its thoughts on the procedures for which parliamentary deputies should be accounted, then a show of arrogance, haughtiness, intolerance is demonstrated. It's the style of Mr. Polancec's behavior demonstrated in his last performance. But the style of rule. And that's what we condemn as a SDP club. It's hard to conduct parliamentary debates with this kind of behavior of government, executive authority. Especially with this behavior in the Croatian Parliament. And we appreciate that his outburst towards our colleague and was intended to offend, humiliate, and not try to defend his views, his work at the Privatisation Fund. So we're glad Mr. Polancec apologized. Although I personally don't believe he did it from the heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91753	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91754	When the Deputy Prime Minister apologized, I don't think it's polite to say it's the style of his behavior. He's not much of a blatant man and not much of a bully. In particular, it would have been bad, or it would have been, if Mr Linic hadn't said so, which he didn't exactly feed some great courtesy as well. So it's a completely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91755	We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91756	Mr. President, I've had two corrections to the incorrect assumption. Since one of the corrections of incorrect allegations referred to this particular one, let’s put it that way. I accept this apology, although I must say I've been used to hearing a lot of times that I'm an offended former minister, hurt, like this. I think those meals are completely unnecessary. I work for the results while I'm in power. When I'm in opposition, I'm knowingly doing the opposition business. And I'm saying everything that I don't think is right. What's right is I'll commend you. But what I don't think is right is I'll say so I don't know how you qualified me after that. And I don't think there should be any anger or insults like this. I don't think I deserve that. And I'm glad that the President of the Parliament has been making progress in relation to me since our last encounter when I didn't mean to mess up my shoe against him at all. But let me look back on another incorrect assumption that I'm holding is once again an unpleasant situation. I listed a member of the government who said he had a buyer for Dalmatia. I didn't mention you for a moment. You yourself have now practically explained what happened at that meeting. I'm very sorry. But I think a statement like this, "I have a buyer for Dalmatia", a procedure that has not yet started again, will cause an avalanche and the process of talking about how it is done and how it is sold by Croatian companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91757	As far as my promotion is concerned, that's fine. There is also someone else who will follow in this advancement to advance. A colleague of yours with physics and these dynamic disciplines. As far as I know, you're from humanistic sciences, not those other species. ... That's very good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The truth hardly explains as a theory of relativity, but very well. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91758	First, your sentence, Vice President Polancec, was in this act when this Management Board took responsibility for the Privatisation Fund. You refuse to take responsibility. If you had taken responsibility, you would have admitted that you were managing something that was actually a crime scene and you would have had to assume responsibility to resign immediately in place in the fund and place in this government. You also say that you still don't know what decisions you've made as an administrative body are harmful. You are thus refusing your potential responsibility and everything that will eventually be revealed in the investigation. You keep refusing to accept any responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91759	This is not a correction to an incorrect allegation of an alleged refusal to refuse responsibility. That's the political position you're expressing to the vice president, that's a statement, that's a court of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91760	The Vice-President's statement was when this Management Board took responsibility. I'm saying he didn't take it and it's an incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91761	Well, then say it's incorrect. That's another thing from what you said first. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91762	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote when Mr. Polancec said they introduced control mechanisms. This is incorrect, because if the control mechanisms were introduced then the contract signed between the hotel "Srebreno" which was sold on the basis of the contract, signed between the Privatisation Fund, the state agency and the buyer, would then control how the contract was executed, and the contract said that 70 million kuna was to be invested in the first year, in the second year 155 million kuna, in the third year 95 million kuna. It also says that the existing number of workers, which are 44, had to be additionally employed by 160 new workers, and for all of this there is a guarantee that you should have charged when none of this was done, and it amounted to 40 million kunas of bank guarantees and 280 million kunas of corporate guarantees. The control mechanisms don't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91763	Second correction of the incorrect quote, third, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91764	Thank you, Mr. President. Unlike fellow Stazic, I trust the minister that he took responsibility for the fund's operations when he came to the head of the fund, only what it is. We're looking right now to confirm this responsibility of ours and to say that I'm responsible. And one more thing, no one in our request for responsibility has called this discussion a thief. More.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91765	You've been correcting something you've commented on again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91766	Mr. Secretary said it was called a thief here. That's not true. No one called him a thief. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91767	Okay. Well, if it's a matter of fact, it's not about thieves all right. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91768	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote. First, I have to say that I was startled by that statement by the Deputy Prime Minister that the fund doesn't know what the police took. So she needs to know what she took under the Penal Procedure Act, she has to be written down and leave the items she took. That means the police are working illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91769	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91770	Don't be too careful. It's a very dangerous legal statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91771	Well, if it's a surprise, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91772	Very dangerous that the fund doesn't know what cases the police took. And the police can't come in here like they're self-serving, and they can't take objects. You don't understand it, you fix your teeth and you don't, this is a legal question. So the police can't take the cases without a record. Well, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91773	A colleague. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91774	And that the fund has no record of decisions. Well, what's that like?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91775	My colleague Kovacevic, you're correcting the astonishment, and it's not in the institute, it's gone, so let's let it go now. Which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Yeah. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Don't correct surprises, surprises, requests, requests. ... I did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Tonchi.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91776	The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, repeatedly stressed the government's desire for transparency and persecution for all hidden, suspicious actions, but I would ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91777	Here we go again, Tonchi. So how do you ask, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91778	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. So, despite.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91779	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91780	Mr. President, despite the promise he made to me and the entire January 11th audience, the "Open" show has not published a contract to this day with "suny Hvar". It's my correction to an incorrect quote. So be careful to talk about someone pushing for transparency, not publishing such an important contract means not telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91781	Well, you're saying that the vice president said something on the show, and you're commenting. ... And remind me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91782	No, I have to remind you. The man says here it's for transparency, and... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91783	And the esteemed representative Joseph Leco, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed Deputy Prime Minister said the damage caused by the fund's management decisions is unknown. That's not true. Of course. The result of decisions from the Privatisation and Behavior Fund of the Management Board is clear. The damage is evident because it is a loss of trust in the democratic institutions of the Croatian state in the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, here we are not talking about material damage and criminal responsibility that will be determined by autonomous bodies. This is about the damage caused by the Management Board with its inactivity to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91785	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91786	Wise President of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to commend you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91787	Don't overdo it. That's true what you said, but you shouldn't go too far. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91788	Don't limit my freedom of expression in this House of the High, because I wanted to commend you for putting this on the agenda today, I must say it very superficially, extremely superficially prepared interpretation requiring a practical demission of the government. The tradition of such demands is 225 years old. For the first time, it appeared in the American Civil War when the English lost the war there, then Lord North offered the King his resignation, and then we record 31 successful interpretations. I already mentioned one of those successful interpretations again due to the loss of war he had Benito Mussolini. Therefore, when such demands are made in this House of Highs if we are to maintain the good voice of this House, this must be prepared seriously, it would be very important that in the first place in signing this request he was Dr Ljubo Jurcic, a pretender as Prime Minister. However, he was wise to slip away. He did not sign at all and left the role to Dragutin Lesar, who now becomes shadow president at the symbolic level. In that sense, I think the result of this debate today will be unfavourable for the signatories of the interpretation, and the public's impression will be negative for this House of Commons. Because it moves between the cartoons of black and white photocopies and these in color, yes, the ruling coalition that has some more money. What is important is the notions of corruption in Croatian society that issues "International Transparency" or "Transparency International" will increase after this debate. For this government, but not only for this government but for Croatian society it is good news that the World Bank, followed by corruption from a completely different empirical perspective, has noted that corruption in Croatian society has been reduced from 2002 to 2006. You won't believe she's been reduced by about 20% to 30%. That success can't be prescribed to this government alone. No different spectacular actions of the type "Maestro". The only thing that bothers me personally in one Maestro is that in a society that has virtually no musical hearing, it's called Maestro and 3 tenors. Only Miomir Zuzul understands these things qualifiedly. It would be better if it were called "Afera Peck" because I saw that one of the participants in that affair got one amongst other things with "capuccino" and "roast." So when it comes to how we should be able to handle corruption, first of all, we need to know one serious fact that all governments from 1991 or 1992 to this Government of Ivo Sanader had to deal with corruption. I will remind you that in 1997 a permanent private agency called "Krol" issued a statement where it found that the then Government of Zlatka Matesha, the magistrate, is currently in Wimbeldon, was corrupt and influenced by organised crime. This resulted in one spectacle that the Prime Minister himself and also here, my colleague Andrija Hebrang sued the then "Globus" and then paid homage to the Municipal Court instead of taking seriously the fact that corruption is an inherent problem of Croatian society. She's not the character problem of this man and that man. And to say there are good people or bad people in themselves is bad. In each of us there is one small corrupt element. There's one little evil in each of us that preys on opportunity. I'd like to believe this action is successful. I reminded you of the group affair this morning. It's too bad there's no Mr. Shima Lucin and we'll all be victims of negative publicity. For example, it says one scandalous sentence, which came out this week. Narcotic crime naturally flourished and spread across borders like all other forms of smuggling because Interior Minister Shima Lucin at the time dealt with windmills over the legalisation of easy drugs and prostitution. So you see that a good man who in 2000 spectacularly organized a television shoot about the "Group" affair, so they had 10 cameras per Zrinjevac and then welcomed famous people from Croatian public life, secrets, public partners and arrested them. After that, the court freed them. We also need to know these three arrested men. I could profit by hiding something I'm going to say here. Two days before the arrest, I called Ivan Gotovina because a man helped me with the data on the privatisation revenues that were published in my book. I told him, "Please" I'm with him on you. "Please, Mr. Casher, I've received an authorial copy of you, please call me tomorrow to give you the book." I'm not getting a call from a man. Arrested man. Can I believe it until he's convicted or innocent? Can I believe that corruption is in this particular privatisation fund? What about the Moreh? What about public procurement? What about customs? What about the store, the stock reserves? What about the Jacuzzi structure? Dear counterpart Tonci Tadic, my impertinent see-through has given me an analytical insight into the structure of the Yakuza. It has 7 parts that almost ideally correspond with the organisation of corruption and organised crime in our society. The first one's called Sokaia. It is a racket of small shareholders, which is not needed in Croatia after the Constitutional Court's ruling, because the majority owners, past the will of small shareholders, can rule them out. This could be called "claricia" in Croatia. The second is taking over the company in bankruptcy. He became a boom of bankruptcy at the time of Mr. Linic. It could be called a line. It was thought that bankruptcy managers could solve all the problems of this society. Don't laugh at Zubovic, your tooth tooth won't work in this one. It's the third one to arrange traffic accidents. "Bandija" known case in Zagreb. Then he's taken care of and so on and so on. So I'll tell you next. It's a serious theoretical area. It can't be in that serious theoretical area where it's been published, I've tested 59 million documents on Google this morning, not just more than Bill Gates, the Blessed Virgin Mary, but even more than the dear God himself. There's more about corruption. She's a universal world problem. And in that sense, if we will, we must create as we have created an alliance for Europe, an alliance for human rights to create an anti-Croatian, anti-corruption alliance "HASO" shortened. And in that sense, this bickering between color caricatures and black white cartoons and cartooning these situations and bringing them down to human nature is not the answer to that problem. The problem is serious, but what's good news is, and I'm going to do it again and I'm going to end it. Serious research into not international transparency but serious research by the World Bank which analyses corruption based on field research on how much domestic and foreign companies corrupt public officials is large. And finally, the last thing I want is a nice little slip that happened or a mistake to a colleague of our esteemed Vesna Pusic when she was talking about eight people arrested. Two, three days ago, I did one test and I mentioned it at a press conference. Unfortunately, it hasn't been repeated in any media. I have about 10, 15 colleagues among you tested ten journalists. I said about two hours today Radimir Cacic will be detained. None of those 20 or 25 asked why? It's like Shime Luchin asked, really? Someone asked when? Someone asked who? Therefore, the notions of corruption differ, and that's why I stayed in the late hours and I end up. It's my birthday. I'm going in tomorrow for the seventh decade. Today it is Vidovdan, when Serbs did mostly great evils and started wars. I'm glad it'll never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91789	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91790	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, my replica will be very short. I'd like to congratulate Mr. Letica's birthday on behalf of the entire HDZ club and... I said the replica will be short. [[Applause.]] You mentioned that preparation for the government's replacement has been poorly prepared. I agree with you that this is poorly prepared and we all know why? Because this debate wasn't made to prevent me from corruption. This debate was designed to be a pre-election trick of how to declare HDZ and the coalition that is in power today, i.e. This government is corrupt, right at the moment when this government, the police, USKOK means when this government currently manages to carry out a secret action for the first time today that it has not leaked and arrested the defendants of that action. It's never happened before. And that's why it's seen here that it's not our goal to discuss how further, how we're going to reduce corruption, how we're going to reduce crime, but the goal is just to accuse those who got caught, catch those who were in crime, or how we declare them to be co-criminal because they haven't done it before. And it's not said that earlier than a year ago, or how many laws were made that made possible. And that's why I agree with you that this is poorly prepared. And Mr. Jurcic didn't sign this here, because he probably sees it as pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91791	Here's the answer, Mr. Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91792	The demands for no confidence in the government are the risky demands of a serious opposition coalition, not pulling guns unless they're serious about shooting. In that sense, it is legitimate that their attempt to remove your government's power. However, they could have prepared it seriously. They'd enjoy the respect of the press. These journalists down there, though, mostly smoke and never carry what I say. But still. But it would be better if it were seriously prepared, I would personally be inclined even to conform to that request even though it is in no way appropriate for me to drop this government. Handsome government, we're going to summer. And it was built on a highway to the Six. Maybe most people don't know it's only two kilometers from Zadvor where Mladen Bajic is from. So Mladen Bajic can see his parents now practically at three o'clock. Drink down coffee for seven kunas, not for 50 grand and come back. So it's his efficiency. His troubles are that a lot of investigations begin, a little bit over. I suggested that I give him one lecture, not enough theoretical knowledge about dealing with transition corruption. And in that sense, Mr. Tooth Tooth,... Let's give a serious lecture there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91793	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91794	I thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow government members. The perception of the Croatian public about the breadth of corruption, which the present minister essentially disagreed with on several occasions, is that corruption in Croatia has been widespread and that it has deeply affected all state institutions, has been networked through Croatia and in some ways me and is not surprised, and that I say a bit of soft sand from different sides that comes about this action "Maestro", because one part of the public assesses almost and too late since it comes here, practically before the end of the term of office of this government. However, I would like to say at first that I am very supportive and supportive of both this "Maestro" action and any next action that will be called in any way as one joint action of the competent institutions, USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, the Secret Service and the Police in their efforts to expose anywhere and to any level of possible corruption. However, I will also immediately say why I am signing this request, among other things, to discuss the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's clearly written in this very piece of paper that some think is superficial. However, I do not know what should then be said to the government's response, where it is said that, among other things, an investigation has been submitted to this government that has been going on in recent months, and that it is absurd to seek political responsibility from the government of the Croatian Democratic Community for what it allegedly did in the past term. I do not agree to such a twisting of the thesis and twisting of what is written in this request. And especially that the Government has ignored this time and it does not matter that this request is now coming from the opposition, it has ignored sending what would be very relevant and might help further to this debate today, which is to submit a full report on the situation in the Croatian Privatisation Fund with a special reference to the actions of members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed to the Management Fund. The work of the Privatisation Fund is governed by laws. First, the basic law relating to the work of the fund itself, but then subject to a series of other laws. The Fund is managed by a board of directors, which has several ministers. In that committee they sit down to fulfil certain tasks prescribed by law, and you have exactly 12 tasks prescribed by law, and these tasks are then further worked out through the statutes of the fund, and then you have 21 tasks, which are assigned to the board of directors and who have been obliged to work, since they have agreed, that is to say, to be on that committee. After seeing what the ministers were supposed to take into account, it is best to say that the ministers did not do their job, or did not do what the law said, or what it says in the fund’s statute. Does that mean they didn't do anything, I'd say they've yet to have misunderstood this function they've been appointed to. Because it's government property management, the property of all the citizens of this country. I don't know where this investigation is going to lead to or any future investigations, I'd say in advance that I support them all. I sincerely hope that it may go far into the very beginnings of privatisation itself, but I must say this way that it seems that we have a bit of and naive ministers who actually run some of the most responsible resistors in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when things like this are at stake and when it comes to political responsibility, then the only thing that keeps repeating is that not only now when it comes to the Privatisation Fund but also any other thing that happened, the affairs that were before, they can only say that they didn't know, or that they were born behind their backs. Well, speaking of cartoons, Felix voiced his opinion on "The Evening List." I believe that this is precisely why, because of expressing my own ignorance of what is happening in certain institutions for which they have been responsible, that they are politically responsible, because I would say that there are still too high positions in this country and that such a memorial is allowed in some way. Because at the end of the line, I would ask the same question among other things, because today none of the ministers but neither the Deputy Prime Minister has answered several times the questions that come from our side, which is that with the reports of the Privatisation Fund, whether reports were submitted annually to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and whether this government adopted them and why it had not adopted them, why it did not forward them to the Supervisory Board, or why the Supervisory Board was not meeting. Since the decoded response to this is avoided, I can only conclude, and I ask that the members of the board of directors may have denied me, that such reports have not actually been made. Otherwise, I think we don't really understand ourselves here today when we're looking for political responsibility. Well, then the vice president of the government reacts so badly when he says that, so he thinks that we here call him thieves of him or any member of the government which is absolutely not true. What is this political responsibility that we insist on? For example, it's very simple to explain. There was an investigation, there was a crime within the Privatisation Fund, but at the head of the Privatisation Fund, there was a board of directors sitting in the same area as those not involved in the crime, but they were sitting on the board of directors and sitting there just to make sure that crime didn't happen, that they were responsible. So if you're involved in crime, you answer by law whether it's illegal, whether it's criminal. But if you're in a position or you're in a position to do it and you have to stop it, then I guess you're answering the same thing, but politically, and there's no saying that at least someone as personal as I am, I'm accusing that someone is a thief trying to say it here. However, it seems to me that this government somehow otherwise understands this political responsibility, and then it is repeatedly said that nothing was known and that it was not possible to do so, and that nobody was ultimately responsible. Furthermore, the President, or a Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec, has today, but has said earlier in his statements, is actually constantly talking about the need to wait for the results of the investigation because only then will you see who knows where this investigation will come from, etc. I say I'm not absolutely interested in it right now and let it go wherever it wants and wherever it needs to go. However, I ask the question, what does this have to do with the fact that this action of USKOK has been related to the last year or some say for a year and a half that it has lasted and what has now been found has not happened during another government but during this government and it is said that since these ministers were within the board of directors during this period, I believe they are politically responsible. I have to say that in the end it turns out that the president and board members didn't actually manage the fund, that the Supervisory Board wasn't overseeing, nobody was ultimately responsible, and then we'll say, I don't know then the Government in this Croatia, then the government doesn't government, this state is run by low-level officials without the government having any influence at all and that it doesn't really know anything. And finally, I still have to ask the question. During the government's term of office sometime in September 2004, the Privatisation Fund was reconstructed so that the department for internal control was abolished and that department fell under the office of the president, or Mr Ivezic, who, along the way, is the head of the State Secretary of the Central Office for State Property Management. With all this going on in the fund, he says he didn't know anything, and he's a member of a college who unanimously makes decisions that go up to the value of 10 million kunas. I'm asking the question now does that mean that he's running the Central State Property Office and he doesn't know anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91795	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91796	Thank you very much. My fellow Sobol you have very well noticed, eight times today the same question has been asked, where reports from the supervisory board that were to be given to the government each year. And you and I asked Vice President Polancec, Minister Suker, Minister of Cobankovic, Minister Calmet, and they turn red and shut up. Minister Kirin is here. Maybe he found them, so he'll answer us, maybe by surfing the Internet he found them somewhere. And secondly, you said, and with that I agree with you, it doesn't matter how far back, how far back Maestro goes. I would like this action to return to 1994 when the first Croatian President Tudjman sent a letter to us, then to the board members and ordered us to sell the Hotel "Dubrovnik" in Zagreb to the then parliamentary representative of the diaspora Nogal, that we must sell it. Then I resigned and publicly explained it with this letter and this fact, so that "Maestro" may come to the Hotel "Dubrovnik".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91797	Please be quiet. Answer to the replica of Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91798	Thank you. Yeah, I'll do it one more time by agreeing with you, Mr. Lesar. I also deliberately asked that question once again, considering that there are members of the board of directors here that maybe someone will answer later. So, at least for the time being, I'm convinced that those reports weren't done, because if they were done, someone would have already said that the government had been under review, so she said this or something else about it. She accepted it or did not accept it, although, of course, the most frightening fact would be if the reports were made and the government accepted them, and then we would be further right when we seek political responsibility. I don't agree with you that possibly Minister Kirin could say if he knew about the reports, because I'm not wrong exactly before one debate said that he had nothing to do with the police director's office and that everything we should in this regard point point to the Director of Police. I would also like to point out once again, so I think that in this case we should insist on political responsibility. After all, I will also take the opportunity to say a little detail which, in fact, the prime minister himself said when inauguration then the new Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Polancec instead of Andrija Hebrang when he announced that Mr. Polancec would deal with himself and that he would be responsible for privatising state-owned companies because only the most valuable companies are coming in line. Therefore, he also stressed the responsibility of the future inauguration of the vice president at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91799	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Representative and Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since I haven't been in a position to say anything about a break we've had in the first place, I'm going to use just a few sentences to say something about the insults that have been said here. Unfortunately, it is something that has become quite common in the Croatian Parliament. I think it's positive and I welcome that Deputy Prime Minister Polancec apologized for that statement. It may also be a lesson for others not to catch up with it, and if counterpart Scare Ozbolt thinks that we can accept that apology, and certainly it is a good lesson and practice that should be used regularly until such a kind of loss has been eradicated in this House. However, it is not so different from what Deputy Prime Minister Polancec immediately understood, that if you make a mistake, you do something wrong that you need to take responsibility for it and took responsibility for it, it is not methodologically very different from what we are looking for here. Therefore, if they understand it so clearly in one case, I think it must be clear in another. So, the Deputy Prime Minister himself and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund began his presentation with the claim we all always knew that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is a suspicious, or place where suspicious things happen. What would that mean? That would mean, of course, that you need extra attention, that you need to be extra careful if you know you're entering an institution like he said he knew where suspicious things were happening. He stated here that, in technical aspects, the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in their term of office, so the mandate of this Management Board, that the various technical things they did that improved, facilitated the functioning of the fund, which means that they could and should have worked on those aspects that improve and enable control, because of course it was their basic task. However, after that, he claims that the chairman of the Management Board himself did not know about the robbery. The board of directors didn't know about breaking companies into smaller units up to ten million kunas. The Management Board did not know how real estate prices were determined, which is directly within their jurisdiction. The Management Board did not know or know today what decisions were made and which decisions itself were harmful or potentially harmful to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. for the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Management Board did not know of decisions made by the College of Funds together with the President and vice-presidents of the Fund which are harmful to the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, property owned, or managed by the Fund. So the board of directors knew nothing of what he had to know and why he was sitting there. They had to know what decisions were harmful, at least now they should know what decisions were harmful and their own and college funds because it was their job. And I don't think we could better justify the request for an account, that is, bearing responsibility for such management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund than was said by the Management Board and the Vice-President of the Government of Mr Polancec whose main concerns are that none of what the Management Board must do in the Fund and none of what happened in the Fund for this was known by the Management Board. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the Honorable Vice President of the Government, we seek your responsibilities. Because you didn't know what you had to know. And it comes from your presentation that everything, absolutely all you know about privatisation in the time and business of the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time when you were not on the Management Board, when you were not in the Government, at the time of the term of office of the last government. The business of the Privatisation Fund from the time of last government seems to know everything about this Governing Board. And decisions from the time of the term of office of this Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund The Management Board knows nothing. That's their defense, and that's our main reason for asking them to take responsibility for their ignorance, for the irresponsible management of the Fund, and to get out of places where they know nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91801	Thank you. Correction Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91802	Well, here's to correct my colleague that the Fund's Management Board, the current Fund, knew everything about the Fund's affairs in the previous meeting. Well, that's not true. For example. There is no telling who sent the letter that Hotel Excellsior bowed down to Goran Struk and the people remained, as they like to say by their colleagues from the CNS, without 30 million marks. So there's a whole series of things that we don't know, which you know and that's why you've made all this panic because you believe that sooner or later the jump will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91803	Correction Mr. Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91804	Thank you, Mr. President. In this performance this morning and now the distinguished colleagues of the Vice President of the Parliament in which she shows how she knows when someone knows something and when someone doesn't know something. I don't think she knows everything either, because I'm convinced that she doesn't know what the content of this request for interpretation is because it's just amazing to me that as a university teacher and an esteemed colleague she would allow one such illiterate text as did this whole story that runs away from the substance and goes on its own to make noises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91805	Correction, Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of the staff said incorrectly the following, addressing the Management Board, you did not know what you had to know. The board of directors could not or should have known that some lower officials across the street were drinking coffee for 50,000 euros. Just as Mrs Pusic didn't know that they were drinking coffee for 100,000 euros in her day, which was the time when they took and took 100 million kuna worth of property "3. Mayu." That was when Victor Lentz was given state money to a private company. That was when they illegally sold the strategic package of Pliva shares, etc. So they couldn't and shouldn't have known how to drink coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91807	Let's move on. It's Mrs. Bisserka Perman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91808	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to congratulate the State's Attorney's Office, the SCOTT, the police and the SOA on this extensive action. Although I must express regret that the danger of revealing the entire action was spent before the planned time. Immediately, the question arises as to who gave the suspects the hint that they were being followed and who was protected by an early action. During today's debate, knowingly and systematically violates the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly by calling for phantom irregularities in the work past and could almost already be said by the previous Government, because it is not the subject of this debate, and even if it is, and even if it is, a proven crime in its work or the work of some of its members, it cannot possibly be an alibi or justification for crime, incompetence or the unhappiness of this or any future government. So it's past time and there's nothing to say about it anymore. However, there is something to be said about this government and there is something to ask. In his opening statement this morning, the prime minister said he did not understand this proposal to discuss the government's trust because the ministers sitting in the Fund's Management Board made it possible to catch thieves, so it was the government's success. But it's not just a lie, it's a faceless lie because none of the ministers knew about Operation Maestro at all until it was implemented, and the required budget money is just by a general formula for conducting an investigation into corruption. If their merit and virtue are in their ignorance, then I give them confession and congratulations. The style of Prime Minister Sanader's rule is that in the event of any affair, scandal or blurry work, officials, secretaries, drivers, bodyguards, assistants are always to blame. Only those who should be and are the most responsible, so the prime minister and his closest associates, or ministers, always remain untouchable because the poor are deceived, deceived, abused and exploited. But that's exactly what they're guilty of. According to the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Statute of the Fund, the Management Board in which the Deputy Prime Minister sits and 3 Ministers appoints vice-presidents and oversees the operations and management of the Fund's assets. They failed the exam and failed the assignment. They are not there to be rowed there by some officials, but on the contrary, they are there so that these officials cannot manipulate and oversee the management of their work. Those in the boards of directors and supervisors are not to chat at the coffee shop but to protect the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not protect it. And that's why they're guilty. The prime minister always appears as a savior but it is interesting that he is the savior only when the public pressure is so much that he has to give in. And what kind of savior is a nation when no move, no minister can and does not withdraw without his knowledge and permission? It could almost be said that the prime minister deliberately produces such situations to create a picture of his irreplaceability in public. Perhaps in creating such a picture in public and successful if he did not underestimate the states in his self-esteem by holding on to amnesia and forgetting the corruption affairs that followed the government during this term. For example, "Imostroj", "Bechtel", "Piva-u", "Liburni Riviera" hotels, "Brodoplit", "Suncani Hvar", 100 million price increases in road construction and driver's racketeering in the Ministry of the Sea and not to list any further. They hardly forgot the hotel account from Verona, the origin of the prime minister's watches, the human cruises by which HDZ's people from the centre of the affair were moved to more sensual positions but at the same level of responsibility without any real sanctions. For example, the secretary of the Split HDZ, Sinisa Poljak, who was moved from the Shkver Supervisory Board to the Transmissors' Supervisory Board and a link in which some suspicious money routes were also found. It is also difficult to forget the human changes that masked the gaffes of individual ministers and the prime minister himself. That's how we still remember the affair with the Prime Minister's bodyguard, Cacchi, the case of Romanica's shift... assistants for the sport of Minister Primorac because of the famous rules on beach behaviour, the shift of Jadranka Cigelj in the Ministry of Family and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could be counting like this for a long time. We saw the Prime Minister's haughtiness in action today when he left after his address because of his godly obligations to the pensioners. But the obligations certainly do not last all day and could return. But who are we to make him come back and waste time with us? To return to the fund, to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Look at the wonders, even those four members of the government on the board of directors didn't know anything. The president of the Fund didn't know anything either. The vice presidents of the Fund carried them thirsty across the water so they're still thirsty. And they are not guilty, indeed of regret. But there are also a few questions that are difficult to answer but still need to be asked. Why does the prime minister insist on amnesting the ministers of responsibility before the investigation is complete? Does this mean he controls both the investigative organs and the area in which the investigation takes place? Even if there is no criminal remains material or moral responsibility and it is unquestionable. They had to know, it was their job, your mission, ma'am, it was to know. The prime minister also said he will not protect either ministers or other state officials if they prove to be involved in corruption. Is that even a point to point out? Are they otherwise untouchable to holy cows, so that should be especially pointed out? Apparently, it does. How the President of the Management Board, Mr Polancec, could be satisfied with the answer that everything was within the law, knowing that the company had been damaged and had not been provided with the future. How is it that despite the government's recommendation after the Liburnia Riviera Hotel affair, Mr. Polancec had not replaced the Vice-President of the Gotovina Fund if it was known that it was long before the "Maestro" operation and that it had nothing to do with it even though he was still dissatisfied with his work. Given the fact that Mr. Polancec did not know about Operation Maestro, she could not have been the reason for Gotovina's stay in office to collect further evidence, yet she remained. The question is, why? How can decisions by companies and real estate, decisions to sell companies and real estate up to 10 million kunas make a college composed of presidents, secretaries and 3 vice-presidents of the Fund unanimously, while the president remains completely clean and three vice presidents end up in prison? Whether this entire operation will eventually be a soap bubble blown up for pre-election purposes and will end up in antiquity like most of the previous cases of converted crime, or will support an initiative to change the Constitution and the law in order to abolish the statutes behind this type of crime and prosecute those responsible for the privatisation robbery. I know I won't get an answer right now because the Prime Minister is unfortunately not here. Yesterday, the prime minister also announced the establishment of the Office for the Monitoring of the Effects of Every New Regulation, noting that each minister and head of the state body would personally be responsible for implementing those regulations as another step in the fight against corruption. Wouldn't the application of the bill and the case of the Croatian Privatisation Fund be the right message to confirm its credibility? But that's not gonna happen. It's obviously just a play for naives and another attempt to trick citizens into pre-election promotion. But Croatian citizens have passed that stage of education and can hardly fall for it again. We look forward to our successes in negotiations with the European Union. Six new negotiating chapters have also been opened these days. But it seems that some of us still do not have standards of conduct in Europe, and the question is, are we up to the entry into the Union? Surely some remember the "Profiumo" affair of British War Minister John Profium's spy and sexual scandal with a prostitute, Christine Keller, back in 1963. Profiumo is suspected of jeopardizing national security even though the investigation showed that there was no leak of information he resigned because of the very inadequacy of the relationship and soon the entire government of the then prime minister, McMilena, fell. In 1995, Swedish Prime Minister Mona Sahlin had to resign under public pressure because she paid diapers and several chocolates with her official card even though she later compensated for the costs. The latest example is France, where former Prime Minister Jacques Chirac will be investigated in an investigation into public money abuses in his former party since '77. '95. was the mayor of Paris and there is no statute of limitations. Is this government really a group of naive children...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91809	Thank you very much. This is the fourth time. I don't know what to do next. Thank you very much again. We have two corrections and one replica. First correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said what the former government did, thinking about that power of the SDP, the HNS and the others that it was past, the time ended, so unfortunately for you, that's not true. No time has passed, no crime in "Lance", no crime in the conversion of hotel facilities in Dubrovnik, no crime in the conversion, privatisation of the river market, no crime in "Riječka banka" or the sale of "Split banks", or "Dubrovska Banka". Here's just one example. You sold the Dubrovnik Bank for 180 million kuna. At that time, the state was obliged to this same bank, 512 million kuna, over the next two years. What are you talking about? What time has it been? So go public for a pay phone and say it's not a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91811	And we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91812	Article 209 has been injured. The rules of procedure because Mr. Matusic corrected my exact quote. Namely... Please let me say it. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] An investigative committee has been formed which found that there were no irregularities in working with regard to the Lenac shipyard, and also the Rijeka Bank, and also the State's Attorney's Office found nothing. Therefore, this is past the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91813	We have yet another correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91814	Here's to the statement once again that the events in the previous four years have been over, I repeat again. Disbanding all the secret services that were supposed to do what they were doing now made it possible for crime and this crime could not be over time, and it is countless and not mine, and here it is listed by the market via "Lance" etc. And second, with what was happening in that time that was not on the duty of knowing the members of the Management and other committees, and now accusing the Prime Minister and others of saying that they were obliged to know, it was that red verbal delicacy from those somewhat earlier times when the prosecution was being sued and what had to be known, which was not known. And finally, by discussing this conflicting question when did that, I ask the Parliament's services to be taken out and announced, met the Supervisory Board of the previous Government?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91815	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91816	And I'm waiting for you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91817	The breach of Mrs. Perman's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91818	I have to re-apply to Article 209. Rules of Procedure. In fact, Mr. Pritchard is the chairman of the Fund's Supervisory Board, so he never called him and said he'd never call him. So, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91819	You have already called for the second time an article on which you have no right at all in the first place, so I went over the first one, and this time, if you accidentally lift that tablet of yours next time, then I will have to warn you, and Mr. Shime Rifle has corrected your incorrect quote in his opinion and that is correct. We still have a line, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91820	Well, colleague Perman, you're in your debate just like the MPs from the opposition clubs during the... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91821	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, her colleague called on the law to prove the commitment of the Management Board to oversee, to know what was going on at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. My colleagues Perman not only did this through the terms of the law, there were sufficient indications that they imposed special caution on the members of the Management Board, and this came from the findings of the state audit, resulting from the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. However, rather than reading the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and the audit report, the government is developing a climate of absolute trust in the fund. The government appoints a fund president on the political line, and not on the line of expertise, appoints assistants of the fund president, appoints members of the government and imagine something that is absurd to me, and that is to move internal control. What's the role of internal control? The role of internal control is to monitor the legality of the work of what is happening within the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but probably at the orders of the Prime Minister, the internal control is moving to the President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but it has control over it and instead of being informed and exposed by the internal control of the illegalities that have been established and that is why 8 people are in custody, this internal control, whether it is by its order or self-initiatively silent and we are not asking the question today of responsibility and the president of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The question of the political responsibility of the Government was absolutely established because from what I have stated, so from the appointment of the president, members of the Management Board, the instructions for moving in internal control indicate that the government has been uninterested in what is... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91823	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91824	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Lalić, I have to agree completely with you, but I'd just like to add that it's no wonder that something like that is happening since here's what I've already said, Mr. Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of Shima Prtnječa has never called him, he said he won't call him. So it's all organized to be the way it is. Also, Mr. Gotovina should have been removed according to the government's proposal, but the chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Polancec, has never replaced him. And you can't take it out that it was to collect evidence because there was still Operation Maestro. Therefore, everything indicates that the government has not done its job properly, i.e. its representatives in the management board, or the Fund's Supervisory Board, and therefore their moral responsibility and political responsibility are present and should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91825	Thank you very much. Now, it is now up to Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, but I will neutrally, please understand that so, inform the Parliament that he has stopped the transfer due to a rational waste of time. Mr. Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91826	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admit, first of all, that transfer doesn't mean much to me in my life, so I'm gonna keep talking. Well, I'm a little moved by my colleague Perman, who says, citizens will find it hard to fall for again. And her whole story was just meant for the citizens to fall for it again. But remember, there's no more Buddha who brought you to power. You took advantage of him and drove him away so that they could rule alone. And now let's take a look at this whole story today, see what it's really about. So, I have a great success to count both the MUP and the Security Services and the USCOC and the State's Attorney's Office has led to a panic obviously in your ranks, because here and there they say, we're not going to stop. And you just thought they were going to stop, they're going to go to the ministers, the ministers of this government. And your disappointment and panic has led to us just entering this story that we've been spinning all day today. I think you're expecting our ministers to resign, offer yours, because yours have a rich experience. They were all at the Privatisation Fund, all doing very strange things. But the fact is, they may have spared the Privatisation Fund rather than anyone, because what the Privatisation Fund has been doing now and its vice presidents, all the bad things your ministers and vice presidents have done directly. They had coffee on them. The coffee was drunk not only here but also somewhere in which the Bay of Pag and some Kornath there, as far as I know your movements, because people regularly took care, they were overjoyed, the late prime minister came, the government came, there would be something. And the government that was out there was actually coming up with how to use "Lance" to take the money, wash the money, how to give it as much as possible to your member of Struk as possible. But now I wonder. Is it enough to be just a member of the party so the hotel could get 31 million marks for a million? Or where and how the government came up with it on its vacation together, it clearly has nothing to do with corruption, because it was accidentally organised by the chairman of the Lenca administration. So, where with 30 million marks? I think it's going to be very interesting when it's being explored, because giving away the hotel the values for which they offered, I'm reading here, an article called "Maestro Linic" that offered 31 million marks for a million marks, I don't think it can be explained by any kind of cooperation. Another strange thing happened. Imagine, the "Evening List" was sold into invaluableness. No one's going to convince me that being invaluable doesn't even mean some kind of deal. What was in that deal would be very, very interesting to see, because simply the former government was afraid not to accidentally write "The Evening List" against them, so she quickly panicked, threatened, threatened everything, and was sold quickly. Interestingly, the same man Mr. Ivkosic here a little bit apostrophe, the same man was dealing with "The Evening List". And not just the Evening List. He was doing, like, "Europetroll." When everyone fell apart because the INA whose Mr. Chairman of the Supervisory Board sold to everyone at a retail price and knocked down all private pump owners, Europetrol won at a preferential price and saw miracles, he bought all these pumps that Mr. Linic and the INA Supervisory Board destroyed. So miracles were happening, but clearly the media didn't really bother to explain it to the people here and there, and then everything would care because obviously that freedom of the media wasn't as high as we all think. So there was a lot of fear to make it public. So, the whole story's moving. Let's stop HDZ, let's stop the attack on corruption, on the one hand it'll come to us, and on the other hand it'll make HDZ a great success, and then we're looking to hit the ministers. And if it hits the ministers on a regular basis, I think it's organized in the SDP, so you don't know Minister Calmet, you have Minister Kirin, everyone has someone, everyone's in charge of someone, so we'll make it up. Well, here's what I'm looking at today, and I'm looking at these mind offices really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Every minute someone gets accused and then they come into existence like a colleague says the affair. And what affairs? Of course, imaginary affairs. Because if someone eats dinner or lunch somewhere, it's an affair. If he's flying on a ship of a man who's got a hundred, first 20 million from a trust fund, then I don't know a hundred million from what other guarantees he's paid for, it's not an affair, it's a summer trip. And the summer must rest, the government must rest your morale. So it really wasn't an affair. I actually thank you for this presentation of yours today. It's a totally, really, really, really pathetic watch that you've served us here and even more miserable explanations, because I think that's exactly how many people you're calling to fall for, they're certainly not going to fall for it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91827	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to rely on what you started talking about selling the Excelsior Hotel. It's a topic we've been trying to solve for several years. It's obviously difficult, it's very difficult to resolve this whole sales situation, but I would like to remind you that at the time the fund's board of directors did not work as transparently as the board of directors of this fund does. Namely, these sessions did not include the media, they even had one agreement not to discuss issues from the ministry's jurisdiction if the minister in charge is not at the session. So Mrs. Zupan Uskovic received a notice that she would not discuss the hotel portfolio at the fund's session, but look at the wonders. The day she wasn't sold out to the Excelsior Hotel to Goran Struk. But it's not just the Excelsior Hotel, which is really for a ridiculous price sold and you've seen under what conditions without any obligations, etc. The problem is the other thing. The sale of the Bellevue Hotel. Hotel "Belevue" was sold to a private person named Goran Strok, therefore not a hotel company, catering, but private, natural person, no guarantees, no guarantees, no nothing. Third hotel, Hotel Kompas, look at the wonders, again directed by the same people. Hotel "Compas" was sold off the Shore Company with... Off Shore company represented by the sight of miracles, Goran Strok. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now imagine, the first Excelsior Hotel was sold to Goran Struk for ridiculous money. The second "Belevue" sold to a natural person and the third off to the Shore Company... And today we hear from the SDP ranks that it's been a while, that there's nothing there, there's no crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, dear colleagues and colleagues, if that's not a crime to you, then I really don't know what crime is and how to explain it to the people who sees it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91829	Answer Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91830	So I admit that here's a colleague of mine surprised me how much more information I don't know about. I'm glad everyone heard this, too. But they keep hanging around my head at the gas station. I know a pump that's privatized. And now the man just doesn't know he's left without it or wasn't properly privatized and hire a lawyer, let's say, Marinovic. That wouldn't have gone away. But by chance, lawyer Marinovic has a wife who was the minister of justice. And look, it's over. But the wife didn't do it because she didn't sign it. She's not carrying any responsibility. ... Yeah, and I don't know. She had to know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And she didn't know. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91831	It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91832	Since this last debate tried to cloud the water, the water should clear a little. Here we have two opposing thesis. HNS and SDP are seeking government responsibility. The government says it's her success and that the answer is pointless. Let's try to get away from the fact that we're clearing up this blurry water of Markovanovic's. Was there a robbery and bribery? It is. What's the amount? 800 thousand euros. Where did this happen? At the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Who runs the Fund? The board of directors. Who's sitting on that board of directors? Four ministers. What further do God’s people have to talk about? Do you even know what it means to manage and what it means to be responsible? You see, when someone's in charge of something, they're responsible for the functioning of what they control. That's what happens when you manage, for example. By motor vehicle then you're responsible for where that vehicle's going, if someone stepped on it, if someone stepped on it, didn't step on it. It means being responsible for some kind of management. When a government rules the country, is it politically responsible for how it manages or isn't politically responsible? Well, I guess we won't be discussing it right now. I guess it's clear to the little kid that he is responsible. The four ministers managed one crime scene. And now I'm asking you who should be responsible for political matters. Ministers' drivers, former government ministers, Hungarian government ministers, who, who? Aite Ministers, you are here. You answer me. Explain to this nation, to this people, who you think is politically responsible. Is that you or the Hungarian ministers, or the ministers of the former government? You have an excuse to say we didn't know anything. And today, Vice President Polancec here tells me we still don't know anything. We don't know what decisions are harmful. Well, I brought them, signed them, along with three other ministers, but I have no idea if they're harmful, they're not harmful. He doesn't know anything. Well, look, whoever signs something without knowing what they're signing and what the legal consequences of what he's signing need to take his business ability, he's not a businessman. And let alone be able to be a minister of some government. By admitting that you had no idea what you were signing and what the consequences would be, you would have to step down. But I don't really believe you guys didn't know. Because here I'm looking at Dr. Hebrang, he said the other day that he had full insight into everything that was going on in the Fund while he was there as president. Now, Hebrang knew, and Polancec didn't. So how is that possible now? Either Hebrang was more capable or Polancec wasn't telling the truth. And you have to make up your mind. Let's see another thesis on the government's success. The action was conducted by the USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, the SOA and the police. Interior Minister Ivica Kirin and Justice Minister Ana Lovrin found out about the action Saturday morning at their own recognition, so when the action experienced its finals, when they were already handcuffs and then even told ministers. You see, the police have been carrying out this kind of action for a year, and they've been keeping it secret from their minister. Shut up so the minister doesn't happen to know what the police are doing. The State's Attorney's Office is part of the judiciary. But in this action, that part of the judiciary is silent, keeping it secret in front of Secretary Lovrin. Not a word about it to her. It's a secret to them. Other members of the government, Polancec, Schuker, Kalmeta, Cobankovic had no idea the action was taking place for a year and the first arrests started Saturday morning. So they didn't even know that the action was launched, or that the goal was either how it happens or when it ends and how it ends, they don't know anything. Now it's possible to be successful if you don't know anything about something you're supposed to be successful about. That's unclear to me. And that's unclear to everyone. Look, the way you defend yourself, it's highly illogical. Well, that won't work out for you in public. I'm successful, but I have no idea why I should be successful, nor did I know what I was doing there. The question arises why the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK kept this action from ministers. Why didn't the ministers know? It would make sense to me if they did. And then I would also commend them, you know that these ministers who are on the Board of Directors of that Fund if they were involved with the police in disclosing this crime, I would say all the honors, all the honors. Then it means you've fulfilled your duty. But why was it kept secret from the ministers? It may have been a secret to make the action work. Yeah, let's assume what the ministers knew. Maybe they'd whisper to the ones they brought there to... The action worked because the ministers didn't know. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] But it's not the minister's success. It's not the government's success. It is the success of those who managed to keep it a secret from that government and those ministers. It's the success of USKOK, the success of the police, the success of SOA and the State's Attorney's Office. He didn't trust the ministers or the prime minister. And I don't believe he's still saying it in the paper. He says, "I don't trust my ministers, I trust the State's Attorney's office.", that's what he said publicly. So there's room for Sanader's claim that the government is responsible but obviously it's only because she didn't know what was going on, because if she knew it, there wouldn't probably be any action or merit. This government obviously has no sense of political responsibility. So when a robbery is discovered in Brodosplit, it's everyone except the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Minister Vukelic. When racketeering is discovered at Calmet's ministry, again everyone blames both the assistant and the driver only not Minister Calmeta. When corruption is discovered at the Croatian Privatisation Fund again, everyone blames only those who managed the fund. Everyone else, but they don't. You're obviously refusing to accept responsibility today, you're taking out everything and everything. You talk, try to cloud the water, talk about what happened five years ago, ten years ago, you'll talk about what happened 300 years ago just so you don't talk about what's on the agenda, about you and your responsibility. That tactics may be hot, but it certainly isn't successful. You're refusing to accept responsibility today, okay, your thing. There are irresponsible people in the world, my God, that's what we all have to get close to. Only political responsibility cannot be avoided. It's always the day when the line has to be drawn and political responsibility is borne, it's election day.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91833	Thank you. We have four corrections and one replica, and then after that, Mr. Ivan Shuker will be given his word. The first is Mr. Andrija Hebrang's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91834	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, as usual for the third time, repeats the same day of the same untruth. So it's incorrect what he said I said. I was provoked by his party's lies that I was connected to one of the arresters saying that I brought him in because he's a top expert, and on the question of how he didn't make a pig's story then I said that in the nights I've been studying all the documents, I didn't let anyone sign anything that's illegal because we had the right to 10 million made a decision, I didn't let them do it. So I broke the law, not Mr. Polancec. And you know it well, but you're turning that truth into a lie, because there's no truth on your side. So I repeat again. I was working against the law, which is why I slowed down the privatisation. The current board of directors has been working under the law, and the fact that it's 180 people who do love coffee, it means they're your friends because you taught them that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91835	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Anto Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, Mr. Stazic was in the X-rays of his allegations that he had said here, I clouded the water as he was muttering in the debates when it came to Požega-Slavon County, and otherwise this is now very skillfully silenced and no one is no longer clouding the water about it, what came out those who have mutilated the water. What I'm trying to say is that he was wrong and said that Mr. Markovanovic was muttering the water with his discussion, that's incorrect. In fact, he made the water clear, citing examples of all these mutators who were clouding the water and around my Požega-Slavon County.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91837	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Frano Matušić. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Stazic said the State's Attorney's Office was secretive from ministers. The state's attorney's office has not kept a secret from the ministers but has strictly conducted instructions about the investigation, how the investigation must be conducted, and this is the quality of the whole process, and you want to show that it has been kept secret, i.e. you want to say that there has been no confidence in the ministers. That's not just true. It wasn't for the sake of mistrust in the ministers, but in the interest of the investigation, because the rules on how the investigation is conducted would be violated, and you know it well, and I don't know why you're telling such lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91839	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Stazic, you have repeated what has already been said several times in the debate. Ministers didn't know and weren't familiar with the maestro action. Look, it's the first absurd. The law in Article 38 on the state administration system says, the minister represents a ministry and manages its work. This is the first paragraph of Article 38, and that's true, and you didn't know about the action that's in your area. Mr. Minister, second absurd. I don't trust the Prime Minister directly, so the ministers of their government, and that's what he said this morning. A Article 114. The constitution says that the president and members of the government are jointly responsible for government decisions, and personally in charge of their work, each minister for their ministry, and the government as a whole for government decisions. So these are all absurds regarding the Croatian system. So who are we kidding? Who are we talking to? Who are we protecting?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91841	The answer to the line, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91842	So can you and your colleague, Leko, imagine the situation that a minister of the interior sits on a co-worker every day with his police director? Every day. They discuss, of course, the objects that are being processed, which are being handled. A big case like this doesn't say a word to the Director of Police. If I were the Home Secretary, I could only do two things, or change my principal or come to the Prime Minister and tell him if you don't trust me, if you've banned my police director from talking to me about such big actions, here's your resignation because then we're not a team anymore. But the prime minister also proves, the prime minister is just making a statement, I don't trust them, and that's why they didn't know anything. And apparently they didn't believe them, they didn't trust them, they didn't trust the State's Attorney's Office, and that's why this action worked, and it's good that they did, and the less they know about these actions, the more they'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91843	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. I once again report that the transfer has been suspended due to the rationality of the Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91844	... Disclosure, it's a matter of basic political principles as to who understands state governance. [[Specially enabled.]] Some cannot be freed from politics conducting certain things, because if it were like you said, Mr. Stazic, then the State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT wouldn't need any independence. We could put it within the scope of some ministry or anyone else. The second thing, the police minister, if he were to politically determine who to pursue, I know that it is in your heart, but it is no longer in Croatia. And what is not mentioned here at all today, Mr. Bajic said at a press conference on Saturday, and now we're going to include the other organs. So, the logical thing is that the State's Attorney's Office is doing its job, that at the time it estimates that any body of the state's administration should include it, and so Mr. Bajic said that the process will include HANFA because of certain transactions on the stock market, not only these but also some others, that the Tax Administration will be involved is known why, that a foreign exchange inspectorate will be involved because of the transaction, etc. But look, would it make sense that Bajic at a given time when he doesn't know what he's going to do calls this or that minister needs to do this or that. So if we all give them the confessions that they have done a very good job, then they should also be admitted that they have estimated at a given point that the government authority should include that policy has not been involved and that is what we all must welcome if we want good to this country. This is what we must all welcome regardless of our political differences and our political bickering and a convenient topic whether there is political or political responsibility. But at this point, it was clearly proven that with four amendments to the law we had put politics away where politics had no place and we had achieved the result. And that's what we all say it is and I don't think there's a country in the world that doesn't fight corruption. I don't think there's a political party in Croatia that doesn't want us to fight corruption. But why now something when real preconditions were created, legal, material. Mr. Stazic, I don't know if you know you did set up the Jump, but that jump until a year and a half ago, two had no computers, no elementary technical conditions to work. I can confirm that. You say you didn't know what money you gave them. Gentlemen, look from SOA and beyond how much money has been provided and how much money is foreseen this year, as foreseen in the budgets of the previous years. You can't expect the authorities of the state, the State's Attorney's Office, UskoK, the Ministry of Secret Service to fight crime that is very, very highly sophisticated today if you don't allow them technical opportunity and technical education to fight it. And this government has made it possible for them to do so. I'm afraid I won't say you didn't want to, maybe you couldn't, or you didn't have a political agreement to do it. The same time as Mr. Bajic and the director of USKOK asked the government five million kuna to be needed for the operation within a practical hour, two times the transfer to the USKOK with the government's decision to transfer those funds from the current reserve. As finance minister, am I going to ask: “Why do you need it? And what are you going to spend it for?" Well, I guess he's a responsible man who, at some point, will submit a report as to why he spent that money. You gentlemen can laugh all you want, but when the State Audit comes, then they'll see clearly where your money's spent. Today we all know what these money was spent on, because there probably wouldn't be this action that was there. However, what I said this morning in my address I will say again. Nothing in Croatia will be like... More. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everyone's gonna wonder if they're gonna take it or not. This government has created legislative and material conditions for this to be implemented. Also, Mr. Bagaric mentioned Požica County. You used it at a given time when you needed it. The county has taken four against legal decisions. None of you have responded to that, four against legal decisions. Let's not if we disagree with certain legal provisions. We must respect them whether they agree with them or not until the moment they change. No one can make a decision on the county's debt without obtaining consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it simply states in the Budget Law and the Budgetary Law. Now, who's to blame. Is HDZ and the government going to be responsible again? Or what's going on in another county right now where there's a lot of commitment being made without anyone asking the government. I with Mr. Mayor on a TV show and he boasts that he did it all and when I ask him a question well, in law there are some obligations that you are looking for some kind of consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia – no, no, we have done it all. Five days after that, he comes to the Ministry of Finance for consent. Is that credibility? You want to raise your voice against that? So, I'm glad you said this, Mr. Stazic. I'm glad, too bad this isn't broadcast by television, that the Croatian public sees the face and looks like the kind of politics they want. Let us not just make a declaration about the independence of certain services but also give them the opportunity and opportunity to do their job. We gave the State's Attorney's Office, SCOCK, MUP-U, SOAs the opportunity to do their job. They've made a score. Let them move on, let them go a few more years back, so maybe we'll get an answer why for a year and a half the fund didn't have a president, why did some other things happen? Maybe they'll answer that, too. Nothing's ever out of date. In my opinion, what has been wickedly done has never become obsolete. But accusing someone of being a thief, of being at the head of crime at the very least is not delicious, and Mr. Leko and Mr. Jurevic read the phonogram of Mr. Stazic's exposure, so you will see that the ministers were at the head of the crime scene. So, it's very interesting when a decision is made for "Sun-Hvar" and then it turns out that in some kind of transportation of documents between the Privatisation Fund and the Government one is some kind of document out and some things have changed and there's a shift of the head man of the fund's management, in fact to agree to go away, to have the other come. Some members of the Fund's Management Board are being changed and there is no political responsibility at this time. No one is responsible for anything, and it is evident that the government made a decision on the basis of misrepresented documents that the government itself later annulled. So if we're talking about political responsibility today, then it was also political responsibility. Or, if there was no political responsibility then there is no political responsibility today, because things should always be looked at equally for the reasons behind all these things are living people. And therefore, what the prime minister said and what the principle of our party is, there is no political party with a pseudonym of crime. Let's let the individuals do the unholy work. But I repeat, gentlemen, instead of side by side with the government, we finally press bribes and corruption and banishing it, you have turned against the government. Why? Time will tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91845	Thank you. Excuse me. In the meantime, I got a notice that HRT plus is transmitting so we don't have a chance just like I thought. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91846	The Ordinary is the truth that UskoK won the first computers by your authority. Look and ask Mr. Bajic if you do not believe when they were founded that they were obtained immediately after that and the necessary equipment, so it was later completed. It's also true not only that, but also the spatial possibilities. The Department of Civil Engineering has been evicted to get the premises, and during your government, the fact is that the ministry has moved into the grandrooms... how much is the annual budget of the USKOK itself. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] It's your government, sir, let the Ministers go now, and besides, it's incorrect that you are here now claiming to the public that there is no statute of limitations for economic... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, you have abolished the law, do not allow, oppose the law of the SDP to extend the limitation deadlines for economic crime as we had in the 2003 news to 30 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have not voted in favour of such a law, you have twice rejected the SDP proposal for economic incrimination and the statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91847	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that the minister said no one asked about the condition in Požega-Slavon County. The state audit asked what the state of the county was like and the Požega-Slavon County fell into nine those who broke the law. We have reached a conclusion here in the Parliament that Mr. Bajic submits to us after six months a report on what he did on the violation of the law in that county. It's the Parliament's conclusion. And another false allegation you turned against the government. That's not true. This report says that this government is HDZ. The government has turned against us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91849	In the meantime, we're being transferred to program two. So that they were looking forward to going home quickly seems to have to take a little longer. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91850	Dear Mr. Vice President, I am pleased that you are a part of the Croatian TV commentator and it is good that the Programme Council and the Directorate of the Croatian Television respect their decisions and convey this session because they have committed themselves to it, and it was only because the county panorama had gone before. You see, in this country, there are some when you're even reminding them to respect their decisions. Dear Mr. Shuker, your presentation has begun on the subject of state governance, but the item of the agenda is not state governance, but management of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Not to the states. You are not the president of the state, nor have we asked the Government to lay down accounts for the management of the state, but for the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Mr. Shuker, if you have anything to say, answer the word, come to the pay phone and don't shout and throw.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91851	You are neither authorized to communicate with each other in such a way as to speak to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91852	So, we're talking about managing the Croatian Privatisation Fund. All the efforts and results you've made, let's assume they're correct. But I ask you where are the reports on the financial operations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund that you had to submit each year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Supervisory Board? I'm asking you, did you file the reports? Did the government also discuss what decisions she made about these accounts? You said that after the action, nothing in Croatia would be the same. That's right. Well, that's this debate, too, and that's why we asked for this debate. I really want to believe that you and we are right, that after this debate and voting no matter what the outcome will be, no matter how much bile we will exchange with each other, how much we will run away from the topic and spread it outside of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. After this, the issue of political responsibility will become a subject of normal political behaviour and that never again the Parliament of this country will need to convince anyone that there is political responsibility, not those who are responsible for something, but those responsible for what happened, what happened. In our text, we have not found you, or any member, guilty of any crime that has been committed by Maestro, but we have written and we claim that you are responsible for what has happened. And you, like all your colleagues on the Management Board, are giving you the impression that the action will go and the outcome of that action will be a few years back. I support that. I want the "Maestro" action to end in the 1990s, in the privatisations of Croatian jewels and in the then Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which I was a member of not full 6 months. I was a member of the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund when the president was Mr. Pevic, the chairman of the Management Board, Mr. Skegro, many ministers of the then government members, many parliamentary representatives of the members when the directives came from the first Croatian president on the sale of certain companies to which they had to be sold. ... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Right, that's not true. That's not true because I say it's not true. I repeat, it's true. If this were recorded in the media and recorded, and since the archives of the President's Office are easily available to everyone obviously, perhaps that document has been stored in the President's Office, it may be stored in the archives of the Privatisation Fund and may be stored in my private archive. I may have stored the Globus on that subject and the New List then and minutes of the Fund's Management Board's session. I might have that, too. But it's true that there were directives in writing that had to be sold to. If he's a master, then he was also the master who ordered us to do privatisation in this country. And in the end, we don't have to go too far into the past, we don't have to. Let's see how these sales contracts are executed by a transparent way of privatisation and sale in December 2004, and did this board of directors, this Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, oversee the execution of the hotel's purchase contract "Silbreno"? Everything was legal and transparent. And a contract concluded in accordance with competition and offer. After the contract was concluded, did the board of directors, the fund president, the co-worker follow, do the contract be executed and respected? You don't believe me, go to Silver. Is that also the subject of political responsibility? Competitions, conditions, decisions, contracts and contractual clauses and the right of the Privatisation Fund to terminate contracts if the buyer does not fulfil the contractual obligations and the right of the Fund on behalf of the Republic of Croatia to charge bank guarantees amounting to 40 million kuna and corporately at 120 million if the buyer does not fulfil the obligations. Is that political responsibility, too, or are we just talking about what we were selling? We are discussing the management of the Privatisation Funds not the governance of the countries. We are discussing not the guilt, not the involvement of any member of the board of directors or ministers in a criminal action or act, but their responsibility for not keeping a good eye on the process, their responsibility for setting up there people who did not monitor and control. And when, based on the public statement of the state's attorney, the leader of USKOK and other authorised persons found out what they were doing, instead of accepting those responsibilities, they justified themselves, we didn't know anything, they were behind our backs. Thieves, thieves who steal in front of their faces, I've never met them before. You won't find one like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91853	Thank you very much, Mr. Lesar. I took your comment on the notification as a compliment, and that's my job to explain, explain, etc., is it, because now I've informed you that we're back in the program so that we don't accidentally deprive ourselves of any debate that would be significant to us, let's go... Correction of the incorrect quote first Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been interested in the Silver case since the moment the question started, so I found out it's not true what you're saying, it's not true. The truth is that the works at the hotel "Silverno" did not begin and they should have started but only after the customer's agreement with local self-government. And there was no deal, so, read the articles of the contract, read the articles of the contract that talk about solving property-legal relations. And which speaks of how the customer will agree with local self-government on what the future complex will look like, etc. And since that didn't happen, then there was no realisation of the whole project, and I'm very interested in getting rid of that problem. But I am even more interested in the fact that the Croatian public finds out the truth that one ministry led by your Vice-President Cacic, that the ministry has concluded hundreds of millions of kuna contracts at the time of his term with his companies, companies that went to his wife or I don't know who. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91855	Thank you very much, she's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91856	That's what we're interested in. That's hundreds of millions of kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91857	Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Shime Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91858	Here's only two. The Financial Plan of the Privatisation Fund for the past year was adopted in this Croatian Assembly with the adoption of the state budget. Decision and so on in the previous years. The decision to implement the financial plan for last year was made last week in this House and adopted by a majority of votes. That you didn't know your problem. And another incorrect statement that this House will no longer discuss political responsibility after this no matter how it ends, I will ask here and there when there are talks about it, at whose expense did your president and president stay on a photo safari in Africa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91859	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91860	Mr. Vice President, colleague Lesar! Obviously, when it comes to untruths, then you're saying it in a way that you're saying it now. It is not true that in the 1990s that it was privatized on the basis of the directive, you alluded to the late President Tudjman, the Hotel "Dubrovnik" and his owner, the late Mr. Nogal. It's easy to talk about the dead when I can't tell you what's a lie. In the 1990s, it was privatized under the Law on Conversion and Privatisation. Was that law good or bad about something else? And don't talk about untrues because the Dubrovnik hotel or Hotel "Dubrovnik" in Zagreb was not the co-owner only now Mr. Nogalo but 12 co-owners. And you were talking about something you might have in the private archives. If you want to tell the truth, show the private archives. If we bring out all the private archives and you will see where your future candidate for the Croatian State Prime Minister will be from his responsibility from the Dubrovnik nursing home through the Zadar school to the INA, to the INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91861	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will hold tomorrow's session, June 29th, at 9:00 p.m. on Friday at Stjepan Radic's Hall. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91862	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament! Here, to continue, I am referring somewhere to these thoughts of Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic. She mentioned the Privatization Act. The Privatisation Act was passed in '96, before the Law on Conversion in '92. '96. I was also in the Croatian Parliament, it would have been better if I had been at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, but then the Parliament simply defined the basic guidelines and privatisation strategies in the Republic of Croatia in a way that this privatisation will bring faster economic growth in market economy conditions. That's what you know, and nothing came true on its own. That it will be preserved under b) productive employment with the desirable creation of new jobs. The truth is that 500 thousand jobs were lost during that period. Under c) that technological modernisation of the Croatian economy was going to happen, none of it was going to happen. Under d) the introduction of new modern efficient methods, management skills in the Croatian economy, none of it. Then under e) the involvement of the Croatian economy and Croatian companies in the development flows of the European and world economy and in the international capital market, and today our deficit is more than $10 billion, as long as there will be a reduction in the obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards businesses, the arrival of subsidies, a reduction of public debt, in order to conclude during yesterday's debate that at this time public debt, or external debt of the Republic of Croatia, is 29.6 billion euros... /The speaker is excluded and re-engaged./... 32 billion euros. That means somewhere over 40 billion dollars, and in five years' time, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia respected representatives, will reach a figure of between 45 billion euros and 50 billion euros. Between this year and next year, the country must return about 30 billion and 35 billion euros. Only this year must Croatia repay 7.8 billion euros in foreign debt, which is about 20% of gross social product. It is certainly this corruption that we are discussing today, certainly the question of the survival of this nation and this country as a whole. As far as Maestro's actions are concerned, I think Maestro, there is no one here who would not welcome the action of the State Attorney's Office, UskoK, MUP, SOE, and especially we who come from Istria because we think that this will shed light on the assassination attempt or assassination of Ed Kosa that took place in September 2006, but will also shed light on the attempt of private companies to acquire certain construction properties in the space of one of the most dynamic Croatian cities. In one word this action that is now under way and we hope it will not stop at this time is a huge satisfaction and hair and IDS that has all the time claimed that this assassination is the result of the fact that the town of Poreč did not want to give in to one of the arms of the Croatian octopus and not at the cost of this assassination and that we are not talking about the presence of Zagorec in the dust, etc. etc. Personally, I also believe that these actions by Croatian institutions are a way of realising the revision of conversion and privatisation, and that some of the alienated property is returned to the Croatian State's portfolio and I think of these actions, I think, that all those who in one way or another should be afraid of this property in the last 10, 12, 15, or I don't know how many years. I would also like to personally welcome President Mesic's statement that all privatisations from the draft fund should be reviewed because the state is damaged by more than 100 million kuna, a finished quote. It is true that the state is damaged by billions, but not kuna, but euros. The Croatian police at this time have done the first part of the job, and now it is clear everything in the Croatian judiciary that I am being honest and afraid not because of the indetermination of Croatian laws, because in these cases nothing is disputed but because of the dependence of the part of our judges on large capital. For these events that took place at the Croatian Fund in the last 10, 12, 18, I don't know how many months, I don't think only members of that management board should be called. The truth someone will tell the government has collaborated with the USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, provided money than should be called parallel to all governments that had the authority over the institution. One word is not possible to amnesty here. I also think that following the case of this driver, Minister Calmeta and this arrest, it would be a miracle that HDZ repeats another mandate. As far as public services are concerned, it is necessary to reorganize the entire state after this, because without it we will not be free of this octopus which is now in a position to capture us financially, and soon if it really... /The speaker is turned off and re-enabled./... by reorganisation of state institutions primarily by clearly radical decentralisation. This country has grown in all spheres deep into the root of corruption. Only some state institutes dispute some 3 billion kunas in public competitions, otherwise in the country through public tenders is divided between 26 billion kuna and 28 billion kuna. Economic crime is enormous. In Croatia, people have been accused of embezzling 1.3 billion kuna so far. And that is why I personally think it is good to abolish this Croatian Privatisation Fund, because I share the opinion of President Mesic that he is a criminal, although I like to say that and I was also speaking this morning at a pay phone in that debate in front of the club, that I think that this fund is actually the mother of crime, and software, that is. The ones who fertilized it, these laws are like the ones I quoted about privatisation, then they're PIFs, they're holding companies, they're brokerage houses, they're banks, it's 20, 30 Croatian tycoons, which in this case Croatia has become small. I claim that these people, this software is not more than a hundred people in this country, because few other than them have "fifty thousand euros for coffee" under quotes. On the other hand, whoever fertilized that uterus is an incendiary of power from the 90th to the present, it's the judiciary. And I'll do it again. Today it is far more opportunistic to become a member of the Croatian Privatisation Fund than a minister in this country. Today, it's better to be a warehouse in stock reserves than a representative. Today, it is better to be the driver of a respected minister, influential than the mayor, etc. And that's why you see because of all this stuff that I'm talking about and this stuff was happening at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, because some people there just knew that the system was hollow, that it didn't work, that no one was controlling anyone and that it could just be doing anything. The question is, how is it that some individuals who made money in private companies 30, 50 and more thousand kunas a month from once overnight agree to come to the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the salary of eight, nine, a maximum of 10 or 11000 kuna? Well, because they knew what they were gonna do. Why is it that no one who's been putting these people there has asked them so dear gentlemen, so what will your wife tell you at home tomorrow when you come with three or four times less pay than you got a month ago? This affair today has hit stock indices. I personally want to believe that if the change of government comes to it, it will bring faster growth to this country. This country once I said I'll repeat I'll not be created on crime, but conversion, privatisation was simply a premeditated crime. Also, I don't think that President Mesic should seek the resignations of ministers, as part of the media requires of him. President Mesic should insist that the government persist, and then perhaps the most he does will simply fall from power.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91863	Thank you. Thank you very much. The president will know I'm gonna determine that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91864	But to give him a piece of advice like this that would...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91865	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have one replica and two corrections. First is the replica Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91866	Dear Mr. Vice President, I must replicate Mr. Caine. He now mentions President Mesic. Mr. Cain, this is the original position of the Croatian party of law club. We have so far given the law in the procedure how and how to sanction theft in conversion and privatisation and this is the position of the Croatian party of rights club. We are pleased to hear that President Mesic finally supports that view because he said last September 6th after that meeting, says privatisation has fulfilled its purpose, so let's see what purpose it has achieved when we have the State Audit report. Therefore, the solution is to adopt the Law on sanctioning the illegality committed in conversion and privatisation according to what the State Audit found. To comb each object, it was found to be a state of fact. So, let's apply sanctions, let's not get smart about all this anymore. Speaking of what the privatisation was supposed to be about, I can only mention to you the official State Audit report that in the process of conversion and privatisation, the conversion solution was given to 2911 companies, and you know what was the underlying capital of 28.2 billion marks. How many states did you get there is already a clear answer. You know how many criminal charges have been filed? It was filed against 1048 people. How the rule of law worked that only nine were sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Here, it's about the rule of law so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91867	Mr. Caine's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91868	Now there should be a serious political debate. To be honest, I'm just about to achieve something by amending the Constitution, etc. I don't believe it. Who can, after I take Mr. Todorovic as an example, provide a job for 20999 employees who provide 5 to 6% of gross social product to perform a review of conversion and privatisation. Who can do this to one TDR, “Lura”, “Dukata”, or I don’t know, etc. It's only possible in one way as it started, by police measures, because this kind of behavior simply can't qualify. What has been obtained in the beginning is unholy over time cannot be corrected. And now it's not exactly like that. Be careful that this is the only way for everyone in this country to be guided so that the system does not collapse because it will certainly lead. Because if someone is hiring, I am now talking to two or three or five percent of Croatian citizens, it is one serious problem with all those who will have to deal with this problem tomorrow. So our leading companies today pay more than 500 million euros through media space. It's about four billion kunas, so let's see whose side the media is going to stand on the next day and so on. But that it should persist in these anti-corruption measures, that it should simply be investigated, that what is possible to undo absolutely it should be annulled, so that these institutions will always have the support of the IDS. There's something else I want to say. President Mesic, what I started to say doesn't need to be asked for resignations I don't know some media are asking him to do, but that's what I want to say. The institutions of this country should be asked to persist, and when they make the most of it for the country, they will because it is a Croatian curse that simply falls, and so will the citizens in the elections and punish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91869	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have two corrections. One, the first is Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, on several occasions, you've been generously, sharply, I don't know how to pronounce how this country has put into crime, how institutions are in crime, etc. Well, this statement is really said in this way not only incorrectly. She's actually scandalous and harmful to society as a whole. You have in your own way, with these findings, in your own way, done the deinstitutionalization of this country. That statement is for every conviction. Because of one rotten apple in an apple crate, you throw all the apples. You're tearing down, cutting down orchards, you're tearing down the foundations of this country that way because you don't give a chance to fix it, for the better. Well, you're just judging everyone in advance. So you don't even give these people here who have shown that we can deal with crime, deal with it, fix the situation for the better, and you don't give people a chance at all to be happy in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91871	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91872	Who here doesn't give who a chance? You, Mr. Bagaric, are not giving me a chance. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91873	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bagarić, on your claim, said it wasn't true, and then he corrected your claim on the widest basis that we have tolerated here unnecessarily for so many years. But also Mr. Cain was obliged when he lifted his plate to say which article of the Rules of Procedure was called upon. So let's get over it this time so we don't create any special problems about it, but let's not repeat that kind of thing, here. There's still another correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Shime Wretch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91874	The statement that, that the institutions of the Croatian state, and thus the Croatian state has made a terrible statement in this House. It's very rare, probably in history to hear. Not that anything is not true, but rather he would say that it is true that Mr. Cain is, in the least, suffering from the institutions of this state, and thus, the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91875	And that's, don't, don't. Strong words come with strong answers, so let's avoid it. I always advocate that in one tolerable way we discuss, not some exclusive statements, claims that border on disaster, etc. It's just as soon as it's exaggerated, it's not true. I'm sure it's not true. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Andrew Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91876	It's me. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. For the first time, I am sorry that Croatian television is transferring one session. Otherwise, I agree with the audience to see who they've chosen and to give our work to them, so they're our only arbiters. But today we've been sending a completely wrong message all day, and we're going to send it to me as far as I can tell by the order of speakers and by morning. And what message is that? Those of you who do good work should take you down, criminalize you. Why did you approve Mr. Bajic's payment of six million kuna? If you'd denied him that payment, they wouldn't be sitting on the defendant's bench right now, but they'd be sitting in their own cabinets looking forward to tomorrow's paper. The message is, you were wrong because you supported the judiciary because you supported justice because you supported the investigation of corruption and crime. It's a message that's not very good for our public. Unfortunately, the government that created the atmosphere to deal with corruption has created an atmosphere of its rhetoric, its own actions, its own strategy, its anti-corruption programme, the government that has been operationally aided by the investigation here we see and the financial government is now sitting there on the indictee's bench. So what's the message to potential criminals? That they have protection in this House. They have protection because today is a step back. We've been holding this government back all day. In what way? In what way is this debate instigated? With a political pamphlet that's a poison arrow pointed at the government because it works. With one pamphlet, two SDP and HNS parties who do not act as constructive opposition. I like it when the constructive opposition breathes behind my neck. But I don't like it when the government squeezes gas to pull the opposition's hand brake. And today, all day long, he pulls a hand brake and stops the government from moving forward. And with what kind of document? With one, forgive the expression, the pamphlet is not even a pamphlet, because the pamphlet by definition has its own content and form, and this document that wishes to resign from the Government has neither form nor content. His form is a completely illiterate text. I don't know which times from the SDP's Club of Representatives, and every time it's directed against the Government, there are such illiterate texts that a man has to torture himself for an hour to figure out what the poet was going to say. For example, read only the third paragraph on page 1. I won't quote the other pages because they're not even numbered. Probably to cover the tracks. In that illiterate, let's be gentle, semi-literate pamphlet there's no content. First of all, it is quite clear that with this pamphlet you cannot achieve the goal because you have not previously gotten most of it on your side. So there's no content either, because you know you can't achieve it. There's no form because it's a form of obnoxiousness. And when you look at certain parts of that content, then you see why you're suing this government that's taking big steps forward and there's these expressions, we think the government has had to, we think it's done. And then you're already trying, you're taking a step in front of the judiciary. So you're saying crime was committed. It's not a crime, it's just a suspicion of crime. They're accused, they're not accused of murder. Until the charge is another big step. So you're still saying, public competitions have been created. No, it's doubtful that public tenders were created. He was trading in information. He's suspected of trading in information. It's been manipulated by stock market prices, and you're writing in a pamphlet. No, he's suspected of being manipulated. We can't judge people before a final verdict. The fundamental ethics of the rule of law is that the suspect is innocent until proven guilty. And it will prove itself to him by the power of judgment. This is where you spoke of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers in a dictionary as if they were both accused and convicted. They're not even suspects, because there are no elements to be suspects. And continue with this pamphlet. Remember, when you're convicted of being innocent in advance, it's a lot worse than not accusing the guilty. You have a liberating verdict these days of one of the former tourism ministers, Mr. Herak, who's been on black chronicles for 10 years. I don't know him personally, so I don't speak for those reasons. He's still got a non-judicial, but first degree acquittal. Imagine what this man is and what his family has been going through for the past 10 years. And tomorrow, the man will have a likely and liberating verdict. Let's think of Jelena Brasha. Let's remember the affair against Vukelic, against the prime minister, against me. Don't be so quick to rush the poison arrows because they bounce back and return to the one who sent them away. Our voters are not blind or deaf. What should be said more about this situation here where you accuse those you've screwed up, and you've screwed up, and I believe they'll bury deeply in crime, so there will be previous governments and previous compositions of the Fund administration and previous privatisations. Because let's not forget, the State Review said 4% of privatisations were made based on crime. 4% is criminal conversion. I'm hoping that this action will lock them out. And even those in whom there were irregularities, not crime. And now there's a question left and why throw yourself at such a poisonous arrow that can't hit the target, simply because the goal is just for political reasons because it's a pre-election period, but probably in self-defense. Someone said they're here in this action "Maestro" and three tenors, and you're not afraid for tenors, you're afraid for your maesters and you're fighting and you're afraid for your virtuoses, because you had virtuoses that were phenomenally singing. Remember the aria called "Piva." Aria called "Ply" in which you sang the sale of 25% of Pliva shares without the media knowing it, neither this Parliament made a decision nor the Government. Remember the beautiful May 3rd tune when you simply singled out 100 million marks of value and removed to sell it cheaply to one of your drivers by sea. Let's remember the Excelsior in which it was sold for a million marks that were never paid, but those millions of marks were given to the state in counter-service because someone created curtains on that hotel for a million marks. So, you have your tunes and your virtuoses that you protect through these pamphlets, and I believe Maestro will get to them, Maestro has to know every player so there's a virtuoso. Remember your singer in the government who, in addition to being a minister, was also the owner of a large trade chain of some toys, so while he was singing in the government the company was run by his lady. He declared that the lady was a much better manager than he was because she had achieved better results at the time than he had. Well, of course, when her husband was a minister in the government. But to get to the bottom of it. You're asking for the government's resignation. You asked for your resignation in the '90s. When you lost the election, you asked for your resignation in '91. When you did not engage in the defence of Serbian aggression, you asked for resignation, and then when you left the parliament because we voted off Yugoslavia, you asked for resignation today because the government is going too fast ahead, you can't track it. But our message today is like then, we will skip your balvana and lead Croatia forward. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91877	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and three corrections. First is the replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Hebrang described the whole situation very nicely and vividly, in particular by asking the question of what kind of messages are being sent, so he said that, based on this semi-literate or illiterate pamphlet, that, among other things, messages were being sent that apparently the former authorities might not be responding, because this authority that contributed to these actions would indeed be implemented, and it contributed to this by adopting and proposing a whole series of changes to the law and that the comrades and friends of the SDP heard what the state's attorney said, and he said clearly and loudly that the preconditions for this action were just the amendments to the Law on State's Attorney's Office. Then they would clearly give recognition to this authority and this assembly because such conditions were created so that these actions could be implemented. But it seems that clear messages are being sent as time passed, what was happening at the time of the coalition government of SDP and HNS, and indeed today it's trying to send a message again that everything was great at the time, because there was no action, so the crime that was going on somewhere under the bench and it's past the time and today all they need to talk about is what they want to talk about today. They want to talk today about the efficiency of this government, the entire state apparatus, because we can only say that this state apparatus is today effective in fighting corruption and that's all we can talk about. If that's what you want to talk about. But you don't want to say what's true. You're hurting and itchy somewhere else, and it looks like this is what you're talking very clearly and unequivocally about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91879	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91880	It's a place where both itch and Excelsior and banks of various and various companies... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91881	Answer, Mr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91882	Thank you very much. Here's a dear colleague, Matušić, who hit the right target. The more itches, the more itch, and this pamphlet is nothing more than a simple scratch and it itches them, the more beautiful Mljet down with you, etc., but what you fellow Matusic would do if you were in opposition, and the government achieves a 7% GDP increase, reduces your deficit, halves your deficit of the state budget, pays regularly all the payments for pensioners' debts, that you have a government that builds twice as many roads as you do, and it was the only project for you, and this government is one of the projects. So what else would you do? We'd sit there and write pamphlets, 'cause there's nothing else. To this action you can only go by reaction, and the best reaction not to sweat it take a pen and write paper, really suffers everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91883	We have another replica, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91884	I'm glad you brought Mr. Hebrang up Mr. Hebrang. A clear man should be rehabilitated if there is a second-degree verdict. Personally, I feel the same way that one huge injustice was committed to him, if nothing else, and then for the fact that the State's Attorney's Office has kept him in custody for over 20 months. That wasn't correct, that wasn't fair, that's what I was talking about in 2001 at pre-election meetings, even though Mr. Herak wasn't then a member of the IDS. The victims of conversion are all of Istria, Rijeka, I don't know Zagreb, each of us individually. I'm gonna do what I said one more time. This country wasn't created by crime, but it's a premeditated crime. It is simply a matter of fighting, especially crime, regardless of what we are aware of, and also because of the fact that recently Minister Schuker signed that framework loan with the World Bank of 150m euros or dollars that this privatisation will go on. But I don't agree and there's no need to praise the government. The government needs to do their job. Who at the moment praises the workers of the Oilers who work, boils at plus 35 down in Pula or in the S.H.I.E.L.D. at plus 45? Who praises the workman Simos, or do I not know those chairs up in Plana? Who praises the surgeon at the clinical hospital who operated today I don't know anyone's heart or anything like that? No one praises them. That's the problem. They're doing their job. Both the government and other state institutions should also do their job. What's the problem, if members of the government didn't know what was happening to them, then that's their responsibility. If they knew, and they didn't do anything, then God knows, they're responsible, too. If they had to stay I don't know about the fund, in order for the case to be investigated until the end, let's get them amnesty, but since I haven't heard from anyone that they talked about in that way, then I believe that there really is this political responsibility in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91885	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Andrija Hebrang's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91886	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Cain, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few more words to Zdenko, a few more words on the subject you pulled. First you said you shouldn't praise the government. I couldn't agree more. The government is doing its job, not to be praised. But we have to defend her when she's attacked without arguments. You said why don't we praise the welders at the shipyards? Well, they don't have a spark that separates them after they put it together. You asked why we don't praise the surgeon? No one ripped his patient's stomach apart after he sewed it up. And our government is torn apart by stitches and disintegrating the stomach of the patient they've cured. And that's why we have to praise her to show the truth, to show that these pamphlets aren't right. As far as crime is concerned in conversion and privatisation, I said the state audit revised a thousand and 600 privatisations. The conclusion is 4% criminal and a large number of violations. And I'm sure you should talk about it the way you talk about it. But it doesn't have to be said that privatisation is a crime scene and that it's only given negatively for this country. I can immediately list you a whole series of privatisations and the privatisation of this government saved by companies, saved workers. No employee has remained on the streets during this government and this board of directors, this board of directors led by Vice-President Polancec and Prime Minister Sanader and has been working closely with the unions in every conversion. Therefore, do not generalize. Of course he's learning from history. History is a teacher of life. We learned a lot and now we're going to be objective and not what we did well to negativeize. Let's tell that to the Bobba Bob, pop pop, so say there was 4% criminalization but the conversion gave good results. We have healthy companies. Croatia is moving forward. Don't meth balvana because that's not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91887	Thank you. We have corrections, Mr. Vuljanic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hebrang said a great deal of half-truths and some statements that aren't half true. For example, the government is sitting on the defendant's bench because she did something. The government isn't on the defendant's bench and the government isn't calling because she did something, but because she didn't do what the regulations and laws require her to do. And she didn't do it because she didn't give a report that she did something. All that's going on in the fund and with these people in custody are of course suspicions. No one's been charged yet, let alone convicted. Finally, we are not here to accuse or judge. However, if it had happened that someone had received 800,000 euros, that is no doubt. That's a fact. And for that fact, whoever had to be careful didn't know. Now, how to interpret it, I don't know. And finally one definitively rude untrue when the war started we didn't involve you. So please be nice, so what was the HDZ doing in this war? Oh, yeah? [[Intruder: Yes.]] I didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91889	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Kapraljevic. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. MP and Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Among the many incorrect allegations not to use the worse word three I will correct here. No one here criticises or attacks the government because she approved the money for the Maestro action. It was her duty, it was her duty. According to you, therefore, it is incorrect that this is why the Government is being criticised and is seeking her responsibility. Its responsibility is sought because the Maestro action found that corruption at the Privatisation Fund was not known by members of the board of directors, according to their own claim that they should have kept the institution from corruption. So they didn't do their job that they were supposed to do. That's why the government's responsibility is required. Second. You're saying this is a pamphlet. You can be angry, you can be embarrassed it's not a pamphlet. It is a request for a vote of no confidence to this government, justified by whom it sees, hears and hears the Croatian public and what is our job here to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91891	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91892	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91893	Thank you very much. Don't turn off Mrs...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91894	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91895	Thank you very much. Mr Antun Kapraljevic will now be addressed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, hebrang's colleague turned the saw upside down, and I admit he did it very well. Normally we should clap the government here, I clap them, and I'll tell you what. I clapped at them for what they had no idea. Tell me where the logic is. They all said they didn't know, they didn't hear, they didn't see, they were behind their backs, and I should clap for them. It's got nothing to do with me not talking to anything. But you want to do one thing all the time, you want to convince us that the government should, too, have those people who were in it functioned as businessmen and should only be governed by the laws. The difference between businessmen and politicians is that politicians have both political and moral responsibility with law enforcement and respect for the law. We're not talking about fog today. We're talking about political responsibility today. And moral responsibility, Mr. Jarnjak. It's basic that he has to uphold the law. And whether it will be moral, it remains on his soul. First of all, fundamental rights and justice are not the same, and you know it very well, and I would like you to understand that today is not the way Mr. Hebrang said this was a step back and that this is the withdrawal of the brakes from the opposition, no. This should be a step forward today. Because today we should set minimum standards for political responsibility. And to repeat that story that you've been trying to divorce all along, some made-up stuff that the Privatisation Fund was supposed to do. Gentlemen, we have reached conclusions here in Parliament on the HDZ initiative with which we have committed the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We've bound them at eight points what they need to do. We have also committed the Management Board and the Supervisory Board to do what they should do, to protect the property of Croatian citizens. How did they protect it if they said they didn't know and did it behind their backs? And we're talking about this here, about their behavior. Evidence of their behaviour that we have already asked 7, 8 times today whether they have submitted a financial report to the Management Board, the Government and the Supervisory Board and what decisions they have made. We know that all the strange decisions, I speak in the quotes of a strange decision, were made at secret government meetings, for example. Liburnia, for example Bechtel and don't let me count on it. And if these were made, if these financial reports were in secret sessions, so I invite the gentlemen who sat on the board of directors, sitting in the government to say when it was and what decisions were made. You asked the same question and you said the conditions were created so that it could work, that the BOOK could work, that the State's Attorney's Office could work. But whether it means two years or now three years you didn't want to give USKOK and the State's Attorney's office to work. Does that mean Mr. Bajic didn't have his hands off? Gentlemen, I repeat one thing. We can discuss anything and I have presented all those findings of the State Audit Office and said which irregularities were established in the Croatian Privatisation Fund and I ask, I repeat the question why you did not do it because we have committed, we Parliament has obliged the Government to correct it, but this is from the beginning, gentlemen, from the beginning, from the first privatisation. ... Where you made the law by which the privatisation took place, where you made a decision to be 200 wealthy families and where you blessed the robbery through conversion and privatisation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a start. We didn't invent 200 wealthy families. There's the beginning, gentlemen. I don't care how long this investigation has gone, but I want everything investigated. But I'm curious to see that you now realize that these gentlemen have not done what we have said they must do and therefore they must bear political responsibility. Are they not interested in what they stole at all, we are discussing their political responsibility, and at this point they are politically responsible if for nothing else because they didn't know anything, because they didn't do anything and because they were behind their backs and they didn't turn around.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91897	We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Kapraljevic incorrectly said that Mr. Hebrag had turned the saw upside down and incorrectly spoken about this pamphlet. So Mr. Hebrang didn't turn around, you turned around. And when you are already asking questions about the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial report, then you should know that this Parliament has adopted the report on the implementation of the budget and the Croatian Privatisation Fund's report. So last week you also had the agenda point where you adopted the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial report together with the implementation of the budget. I know that you don't follow everything that's going on in the House, so then you can make such conclusions, but for the sake of the public, don't deceive the public and ask the question where are these reports. Well, you've had those reports every year with a point of implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91899	Thank you. Correction Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91900	Dear counterpart Kapraljevic said that determining political responsibility and voting the government's mistrust would actually be a step forward. That's incorrect. That would actually be a big step back because we have two things to figure out. This government has made two fundamental values throughout this process. The first fundamental value is that really the niche in Croatia will not be the same after this. Neither will the doctors, nor will the officials, nor will the judges, if they are offered bribes tomorrow, whether they will take it after this. It's hardly anyone's decision to take bribes after that. And secondly, even more importantly. This proved that normative material, political and subjective conditions were created that our institutions function independently of politics. It is not a matter that ministers, that government, prime minister or anyone should know about this, but it is important that these institutions function independently of anyone, and there may be an answer which is why neither "Lenac" nor perhaps PIK Vrbovac and all this is what my colleagues on this side are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91901	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91902	Well, here's a series of inaccuracies. I think it's the biggest one. You haven't given Mr. Bajic two or three years to work, and that's not true. Mr. Bajic is slow, but consistent with this action, and you can see in particular how long it takes him to solve Mr. Cacic's case, and we've shipped a van full of material there and while Mr. Bajic reads it, while Mr. Cacic will come along, singing your prime minister's turn. Don't be impatient.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91903	Thank you. Mr. Marijo Zubović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Kapraljevic, whom I must say is no longer in the assembly because he is not interested in what is happening here, is talking about the strange decisions of the government, about Mr. Bajic who had no support. I'd like it here, and I don't think that's true. Mr. Bajic had the support of this government and will continue to have it, and I must say for the public, Mr. Bajic was appointed to his post during the former government and remains. He mentioned Mr. Kapraljevic 200 wealthy families. I think the first wealthy family of Mr. Cacic who came to the estate was the processes against him, but they went out of date. No one here has explained why these processes went out of date. If everything was legal, it wouldn't be obsolete. That's the point. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91905	And the correction of Mr. Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91906	Mr. Vice-President, counterpart Kapraljevic incorrectly stated that this government did not support this National Anti-Corruption Strategy project. In fact, it adopted and amended and adopted a new Security Services Act, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, and also on USKOK on several occasions in order to ensure all material assumptions and exactly support and the result of the work are both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Security. Furthermore, also the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK and incorrectly that privatisation was a robbery. Sporadic cases such as in every grain have a weed, and this privatisation has some darker points. This is actually the right way for the institutions of the system to work that are independent of the executive authority and must have all working and material assumptions in order to ensure the application of laws and regulations and to create the safety of citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91907	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Representative and Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91908	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, Ministers of the Croatian Government, MPs. I truly share my opinion with those who seem to have been most insistent on this by the Honorable representative of Letica that this request of opposition or closer to SDP and HNS for the inclusion of this item of the agenda is one truly political debacle of opposition, another political debacle of opposition in this House. Someone mentioned there is no Mr. Kapraljevic, there is no see and Mrs. Pusic preds are thinking about how to get out of this debate with as little political damage as possible. I'll tell you why I mean it. First of all, the procedure to be implemented for this item of the agenda to be held at the session of this House was 31 signatures. The moment the HSS gave up its signatures, there was a crisis I'm going to say so by signing, the question of whether you're going to collect enough signatures to vote on the agenda of this session. I was counting. The SDP has 33 MPs, the HNS has 11. 33 of your MPs signed that petition or actually that request, which means that 25% of your MPs disagree to put this item on the agenda by premise that you will experience a political debacle, a defeat in this House as you are experiencing. That's one thing. The other thing, the same thing. That's what I'm telling you in advance will happen at the vote. You won't, you'll be between 30 and 40, so I motivate you, so motivate you, motivate your own to come. You won't have more than 35 votes to vote against this government. And the third political debacle is for that because this debate is only in the interest of a pre-election campaign that apparently started in the SDP long ago, and in the HNS is now joining it. But there was also a crisis of leadership in the opposition when there was a crisis whether there would be enough signatures I wanted to call either someone at the SDP or someone at the HNS but I didn't know who the leader of the opposition was, so I didn't call. That's why, in sports terms, this center of yours is going to our love, and we've scored another winning goal in this House. Act, act and allow and do not be angry at this expression, pretend to be satisfied with the success of the "Maestro" action. We are satisfied and satisfied for one reason that certain people are sitting in prison today where I will not judge them but the indication that they belong there. And you are unhappy that the action has not reached honest ministers, deputy prime ministers and honest ministers in the Croatian government. Your smile on your face would, of course, be much bigger if the action had reached Vice-President Polancec, Minister Suker, Minister Cobankovic and Minister Calmeta. There is our joy greater, and we knew and we said we didn't really know, but we said when it went into that action we didn't know where and where this action was going to end. I am particularly surprised that, eight years ago, we have the opposing opinion of Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs Pusic and the president of the state of Stipe Mesic. The president of the state said there is no place for political responsibility for now, no one, no vice-president of the government or ministers in the Croatian government. Let's let the investigation do its thing. For the first time, it is the dissuasive attitude of Mrs Pusic. I was surprised by the conflicting attitude between Mrs Pusic and the president of the Croatian state. We discussed the action plan just over a year ago or discussed the National Corruption Management Programme for 2006, 2007 and watch. Mr. Kapraljevic said it was upside down or the thesis was replaced. I will say this, and I will read something, and I quote: “Why do I not believe too much in this strategy? I don't think this is going to happen. So who's gonna believe us? So what credibility. Whoever's done this, listen to this, which one of them ended up in jail. Whoever's being processed and we've done an example of that side of the well-known beating grew up in heaven, because if we'd done anything to anyone, we'd have put any sanctions on a pillar of shame. It's the best public action.", finished quote. That was said by the signator of the one who is now seeking the resignation of this government, Mr. Kapraljevic. What's with the replacement thesis and why the drinking upside down? I am now that the action plan has started to work and now political responsibility is required throughout the Croatian government. I'm proud of a few things. I am proud of what the Prime Minister said today that many, not many, thank God, the laps, not many, but some tremble after this maestral action "Maestral". I'm proud that this action hasn't gone public in a year. I'm proud that perhaps even Mr. Karamarko's friends as head of the Secret Service and the Director of the Police. Because without it, without such cooperation, this could not happen. I am proud to see the President of the Parliament, the prime minister of the Croatian government and the president of the state giving each other a subport so that the Croatian state could act in the right sense. And I know it's polite, that I, and that they impose the principles of conduct in this House, to speak to one another, to one another. But to stress my pride that the action did not catch some saying their fingers in a jam, so I will say to him, "Damir, proud to be the vice president of the Croatian government. I'm proud."We are also outside this assembly of friends, I am proud to have such a friend in the Croatian government who did not soak his fingers, and this proved the action "Maestro". I am equally proud of Pera Cobanković, Bozidar Kalmet and Ivan Šuker. I am proud to be with you in the biggest party in Croatia whether someone likes it or not. And I'm proud to share my opinion and these people behind us. Cheers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91909	We've got the first one. Who's giving up? [[I'm giving up.]] First of all, Mr. Kapraljevic is looking for a correction to the incorrect quote So it's deleted. [[No, he's giving up, he said he's going to.]] Mrs. Vesna Pusic, then. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91910	Thank you. I'm glad you're a colleague of Milinovic's so proud. But you don't have many reasons. You were wrong to say that we would be glad if the ministers had been wet in this case... We would personally be pleased that this action, "Maestro", has shown that members of the Management Board who are also ministers are not responsible. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] But vice versa, it showed that when they were responsible for that job... [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91911	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91912	I mean, you might think, you know, maybe you don't know what that means, but this is a correction to your incorrect quote. And the second correction to an incorrect quote is not the country's president where members of the government, where members of the government account for their work. It's Parliament, Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91913	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Mr Branimir Pasecky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91914	Mr. President, I think I'm replicating you, and I think we're naively in the middle of a political responsibility debate. I have political responsibility only to my party and she has to call me to account if I have done something wrong, what my party does not approve. Because political responsibility is the product of a communist government which at those times when people have been looking away and when they have made moves contrary to the doctrine of the then government is called to political responsibility. I can only accept responsibility if we were wrong to start a sentence, research into these problems that have been created in, which have come to prison. Therefore, I cannot be invited by any Mrs Pusic or Party for political responsibility but only by my party. And you can only invite us to responsibility if we have done something contrary to the interests of the state. And this isn't it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91915	We have another replica. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the fifth time I have to say today that we didn't even get a proposal to sign off on the government's mistrust as a club of HSS. But now, after this day, we actually think that the most qualitative decision we've chosen is a whole third option, that we have our own suggestions. Because the debate is going to be bad. It's already shown how it's being run. And the worst part is, this debate won't give us any results. The Fund will still have nothing actually going on. But it bothers us not to discuss what is expected of us in the House. And we've just proposed conclusions at the HSS club. Well, it'd be good if both HDZ and HNS and the others were showing up about it. Because we're asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to abolish the Privatisation Fund. We ask that an Agency be set up to manage state property, which would also have a Department of Privatisation. We're looking for a proposal of the Privatisation Act to head here to the Parliament. We're looking for the Proposition of the Corruption Act. We're looking for a proposal for a law on public-private partnership. We demand the withdrawal of all state officials from the boards of directors and supervisory boards of companies and institutions. And what's most important is that we stop any further privatisations before these conclusions are realized. Well, it would be good if we could discuss it a little bit. Probably the public expects us to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91917	Thank you. Answer, Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91918	Well, look, I understand, I understand your struggle for leadership in opposition. It wasn't my intention to leave you out of the opposition. In my heart, you're an opposition. In my heart HSP is no opposition. In my heart and some of you are no opposition. So if I offended you with it or I don't know why I didn't put you in the opposition, I consider you an opposition, and I offered myself at the time when the signatures for including this exact agenda came into question that I should sign because I believe that, I said, once again, I will repeat the sports ball at our liking. And Madam Vice President, I must use this response to the replica, I did not say that ministers in the Croatian government are responsible for President Mesic. I spoke only of the opposing opinion for the first time heard in public by you and President Mesic. I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91919	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Vice President Milinovic, for quoting me and for being behind every word I've said then, I'm standing today. I said then that I did not believe that the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption would start to work and that it would start to be implemented as mentioned and today I can tell you from 176 measures that were to be implemented so far 36 and today I stand behind the fact that it will not work. And one of the evidence in the National Anti-Corruption Programme, the government has designated the Croatian Privatisation Fund as the bearer of measures in the fight against corruption, and now it turns out it is a property of corruption, and they should be the bearer of measures in the fight against corruption. And since I must have been a lot stronger in my debate than today because I spoke for myself and now I'm going to continue in the same style. I'd be happy to have all those affairs that I mentioned at the time that were over, and I mentioned "Bechtel", "Imostroy", "Liburnia" and then nothing. Meanwhile, new ones came. The clocks came from the prime minister, Mr. Kalmeta and his driver came, HAC came and hired at HAC, the Croatian Privatisation Fund came, "Sunish Hvar", the access road of Zadar, Silver and Pliva. You say it doesn't matter, you'll probably say "Ply" to that. There are gentlemen. There were three tenors. The tenors were Dr. Ivo Sanader, Miomir Zuzul and Zeljko Ćovic. The song was costed by the economic experts' estimates 62 million dollars because 112 million dollars was paid the cost of taking Pliva by... So much for tenors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for "Liburnia," we opened that debate here in the Parliament, first when I asked why "Liburnia" is not on the list of companies of special state interest. At that time, Mr. Prime Minister, I asked this question when we were bringing a list of the special state interest of companies, and when I asked the prime minister whether "Liburnia" was deliberately left out of that list in order to give Mr. Ostoja a billion and 200 million kuna, then I was told that I was involved in all this. At the time, I asked the rhetorical question whether the conversion and privatisation of HDZ needed to be declared a criminal organisation. And now, gentlemen, this is the newspaper that donated HDZ. It says nice ELC and Ostora donated 500 thousand kuna to HDZ. We know how you brought them back. You brought them back this way. There are 43 hotels, 9 camps and 9 settlements left with ELC. When there was a lot of noise, when the press realized something, when the IDS jumped, it went into a different solution. This solution is currently what it will cost, regardless of all Croatian citizens, at least 700 million kuna, and I expected instead of giving someone what you're about to do to someone, what you're saying to some maester a long time ago, and I asked the Prime Minister here in the Parliament, at the beginning of the term of office to form some maestro or call it any "Pedro" and to do what kind of action the PIFs came up with. And the state, the state audit report says well that this privatisation went well, and for which money they came up with the property that the Croatian state would owe them now 700 million, they asked for a billion and 200. Gentlemen, I'm going to tell you, I don't have time right now, but I'm going to tell you the whole story about the PIFs, about which money and how it was bagged and how those poor refugees and those poor people who were expelled took away their property that we gave them. ... I'm talking about refugees who got 90. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91921	I beg you for peace in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91922	If you don't know, I'll tell you who got it. ... 215 thousand men of exile. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm talking about. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you know? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91923	Dear Representative Mlinarić, I ask you to sit down and allow the motionary, honourable representative Kapraljevic to finish his debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91924	215 thousand persecutors and victims of the Homeland War got a stake in, got vouchers with which they needed to exercise their right. And you know who the exiles were. Do you know? And you know who they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91925	Don't communicate and then ask him, so here's to... Once again I pray that for peace. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't communicate directly with the MPs and what I can do then.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91926	I don't communicate. He started yelling from the bench. They got six and a half billion kuna vouchers. For that they got, it was 12 billion and 500 million kuna of property. And you know how much they got in the end? I'll pay for my vouchers. By the kuna. Some swear, some hundred kunas and so forth. That's what I expected you to question and make Maestro Pedro there or I don't know what. And that you will undo what you have given to Mr. Ostora. And you gave the evidence to this and why? Because he donated 500 kuna to your campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91927	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No matter how many times you tell a lie, we'll make it right and tell what's true. The "Plive" affair has neither begun nor had any participants that you listed as Mr. Sanader, Zuzula and Covic. The Pliva affair began when an illegal package of 25% shares was sold What your authority has done. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] The other thing is... The fund was not financed only by HDZ and it is known exactly which parties financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third thing, I'll ask you a rhetorical question. After a proven conflict of interest in Ratko Cacic, after an HSS councilman stole the vessel and now answers in court...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91929	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91930	After the H.S.S. Councilman smuggled cigarettes...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91931	Thank you. Don't argue... The institute corrects an incorrect quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91932	Dear Mr. Vice President! He would correct the incorrect assumption that this government has favored the PIFs and I would like to tell Mr. Kapraljevic when he is already waving the papers, that I would also use these newspaper inscriptions about his members, members of HNS Mr. Zvonko Spudić, and Mr. Dubravk Belan, and Mr. Djuri Rusic. They're all your local officials who either stole yachts or smuggled cigarettes, so I don't see you taking political responsibility for it, either you or Mrs. President of your party. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91933	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91934	Dear Mr. Vice President! So I ask you to conduct a session as it should correct incorrect allegations in the time provided for it and to warn those who speak out of context and correct nothing. If I understood correctly Mr. Matusic he said that some of the members of the HSS were either a lapus or it was a lapus, so, but I would...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91935	HNS. But, well, I can't get an arbitration here if the quote is correct and whether the opposite is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91936	So you can hang up. You can hang up. That's why you're here. I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91937	Well, no. I can interrupt if under the institute correcting an incorrect quote is discussed. Well, no. I can interrupt if under the institute correcting an incorrect quote is discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91939	I ask you not to allow insinuations that are unnecessary on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91940	Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91941	Mr. Vice President! I'm asking you to really run the Rules of Procedure this session because this isn't fair what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91942	Here I go. And now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I call once again on you not to argue under the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations. I won't let that happen. Let's move on. The word has a respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91943	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! So I'm looking at these cartoons, and I can say the following. I find it grotesque that these cartoons are located in front of HDZ representatives and I also find them grotesquely grotesque to be found in places where the distinguished HDZ representatives usually sit. They look grotesque especially to Croatian citizens who lost their jobs while some from HDZ bought 20 factories, robbed and destroyed them. Caricatures also look grotesque to pensioners who have been stolen and brought to the brink of existence to get their crumbs back. They also look particularly grotesque to Croatian defenders who have fought and created Croatia for their lives while your public bought property companies, jewels, and returning from the battlefield, those defenders went to the street. They also look grotesque to workers who have been turned into decommissioned and impoverished masses and driven into the street. And finally, grotesquely especially look to all the decent citizens of this country who have already had enough to have the authority that Mrs Pusic said kept watch while the fund is being held by unprecedented corruption and robbery while the same authority also laminates on thieves and corruption. You've really exceeded every measure of good taste. Well, you don't think Croatian citizens are blind and close to healthy eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91944	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91945	Well, Mr. Vice President, it's an absolutely incorrect quote from Mr. MPs who claimed these parolees look grotesque. They are a demonstration of the real state that the SDP and the HNS carry a bag from the state register, because under the parallel work and honesty that you have declared in your authority you have really not shown that you have performed your duty fairly and honorably, as well as acts that you have not carried out and applications that are neither the State's Attorney's Office nor your "USKOK" did at the time of your 2002 term, I will say the exact date, which is February 11, 2002. Tell me what kind of grotesque performance you're making and tell these passwords that clearly tell me whose house burns that shit and knocks it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91946	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91947	It's not a grotesquely respected representative that when you say they were guarding government members while they were in the fund, they were stealing. It's grotesque that your own guards both the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cacic while they were stealing, and when our guards were caught and now they're in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91948	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik. He's gone. He's losing his word. The word is made by Minister Ana Lovrin on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91949	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here today, all day here in this Croatian Assembly, complains to the Government and where it is because it did not know the ministers and the prime minister something that she should not have known by law, and when I say that she did not know of a specific action in which special reconnaissance measures, monitoring, listening, covert investigators could only be known by those who are operating on it, and for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and beyond, they must remain secret until the end of the action, both for ministers and for the prime minister and for the president of the state. And that's why because that's the case and because this government has ensured this action at this stage of the procedure has been successfully completed. Of course, this is the government, and it is also going to happen and don't ask us why we, as Minister of Justice or some other minister or prime minister, don't know what's going on in the investigation that the State's Attorney's Office is in the interest of this same investigation, asking that the investigation be a secret and when it commits all the participants to the proceedings. This government knew what the law requires it to know, which is to propose to this Croatian Parliament, and fortunately, the Croatian Parliament passed those laws, those laws that provided the legislative framework, and to strengthen institutions materially and humanely so that they could do their work independently of politics. Surely this government knew and brought an anti-corruption programme with precisely established action plans and deadlines and I do not know Mr. MP Kapraljevic how to count the programmes and how to count them implemented, but what I certainly know is that all the deadlines in this programme are respected, and this is also checked by the National Council for monitoring the implementation of corruption. All deadlines are respected except for two laws for which, in cooperation with the European Commission, due to the size and seriousness of the work, which is the Law on concessions and the Law on Public Procurement, which is currently addressed to the parliamentary procedure and postponed in time and time. I am sure that Mr. Stazic would have known by chance or if the ministers knew with the same amount of sarcasm and irony, and he spoke in that way about the things that deserve a full pitet, with the same amount of sarcasm saying that because the government knew this investigation and ended up at the level at which she ended up. We have heard that why this government has now allowed institutions to act under quotes "allowed" without giving it two or three years to the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK to work. No, we've been preparing these institutions for two years and creating laws so that they can work successfully. Four years before the government, this legal framework and this material and institutional support were not. Where do we see that? We see from the review report which found that irregularities in the conversion were found to be also suspected of criminal offences, but of these suspicions, a nearly negligible number ended in indictments and convictions. Why? Not because the State's Attorney's Office would not want to, not because the judges would not judge by law, and because they would exculpate someone, but because these procedures did not have adequate legislative frameworks and institutions to carry out this procedure successfully at his pre-examination stage, where quality evidence is then provided, because we cannot be a police state is the foundation of any democracy that no one is guilty until it is proved to him by a judicial verdict, and this requires considerable quality evidence. It is said here already in advance that some MPs speak very safely that they will continue to work in the fund like this, that nothing of this will happen and that is why I believe that all of us together should reach a consensus on the next. That the state institutions in this area have done a successful job and should therefore be commended, but also that we should let them continue to do this job in peace because the procedure is not yet completed, he expects enough evidence to file charges and sufficient quality evidence for a judicial verdict. And what is the result of the work of this government that created the legislative legal framework and institutions? It is a 120% increase in the verdict, condemning verdicts for corrupt crimes in 2006 compared to 2005. Finally, there were ironic remarks that the Privatisation Fund is also one of the holders of the anti-corruption programme. That's right. He had his assignments under the programme and his assignments in that section as many as he had, which is to draw up a privatisation plan and submit reports on the state of privatisation, the fund did. He submitted a privatisation plan, gave reports in relation to some entities and conducted criminal investigations and conducted the procedure, but could not imagine or reveal crimes. That's why there are special reconnaissance measures, which is why this government has achieved that the USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, the police and the security services act together and not competitively, and this is exactly the successful conclusion of this action.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91950	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mrs Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91951	Mrs. Lovrin missed the whole subject here. Therefore, it is not the government's responsibility because it did not know about the "Maestro" action but rather the government's responsibility because it did not know that they were stealing from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And secondly, Minister Lovrin said the government knew what the law required. No, she didn't know what it said in the Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which defines what the board of directors should know how to do, and that's what the board members themselves said they didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91952	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91953	It is simply incorrect that Mrs. Minister claimed that this authority had created all the legislative frameworks for the work of USKOK. During the coalition government the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Law on the Right to Access to Information, the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Public... /The speaker has been excluded and re-enabled./... which was abolished during this power, the Witness Protection Act. The Code of Criminal Procedure has been amended.../The speaker shut down and re-enabled./... the money. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering was established. The law on curbing corruption of organised crime, USKOK was formed in 2001. A criminal law convention has been ratified with an additional protocol. It is also a civil legal convention, a ratified European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and access to the OECD Convention. In order for you to give a report to the OECD Convention...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91954	It's blinking. No, no, this is blinking, not that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91955	Please allow me to speak. What's this here? The government is...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91956	Thank you. ... Well, you were saying, but you can't talk anymore. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's not. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You spoke. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Kapraljevic. I ask the members of the government to be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do to correct the inaccuracies of the minister when she said it took them two and a half years to create a legal framework for something to be done. You're saying you've retrograded something with criminal acts. A felony is a criminal offence, either before or now. It's another thing. It's more like you've made it possible for these two and a half years for your hawks to take some more.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91958	Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košiša Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mrs. Lovrin. I'm correcting your allegations when you said that the members of the government shouldn't have known about the crime because it was like a secret action. I would like to remind you again that exactly five members of the government, five ministers, had been participating for three and a half years, were members of the Management Board of the one responsible for watching, working and managing that fund. So, I'm sorry, you've made a complete mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91960	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here we could hear today in this debate from some HDZ colleagues who say that privatisation wasn't so bad. There are some dark examples. Unfortunately, however, no matter how much anyone liked it or not, I believe that privatisation has become a synonym in Croatian for thieving or at least one of the many suspicious actions that have been taken in the conversion of social property into the possession of one or a few people. Those who have created these values with their own denials for years overnight have poored. Unfortunately, most of them lost their jobs, and individuals also became newly-roasted rich overnight. The whole privatisation process is nothing more than a series of huge robberies, of which unfortunately, this country and its citizens will not recover for decades. Publicly, after the arrest of the Vice-President of the Privatisation Fund and their partners, details of the illegal actions carried out at the Croatian Privatisation Fund began to appear. Real estates owned by the state were assessed in a manner and according to the conditions sought by certain investors, and then given at a lower price. Furthermore, companies were sold at lower prices in line with the wishes of certain investors. Public competitions have been created and announced. It was traded with confidential information, and it also manipulated stock prices on the stock market where it was extremely profitable. It was making so good that one of the actors of the whole affair during the pre-examination proceedings was filmed as he told his friend that he didn't even know how much he earned himself. The Maestro action is a great success of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK and the police, and there is nothing disputed about it. And they absolutely need to be congratulated on that. It is interesting that during the entire "Maestro" campaign, Chief State Attorney Bajic spoke only once in public when he and USKOK chief Cvitana and Police Director Maria Benko held a press conference announcing that three fund vice presidents were arrested for corruption. Afterwards, the action “Maestro” appeared immediately by Prime Minister Sanader trying to take all the credit for this action to himself and his government and then remained greatly surprised when the applause he apparently expected was missing and not only the applause of the opposition, but also the applause of the Croatian public. He was even more surprised when the opposition asked for the political responsibility of individual ministers sitting on the Fund's Management Board. I will try to explain why the expected applause is missing and why political responsibility is sought. Prime Minister Sanader and some ministers keep saying that the "Maestra" would be nothing if the government hadn't secured material and legal preconditions without which the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK could not have done what they did. And here's what it looked like in reality. The government boasts that without the six million kunas they gave USKOK from outside the Maystra budget, there would be nothing in fact to reveal that USKOK has no money for such big actions at all. And I would remind you that the National Anti-Corruption Programme adopted this Parliament in March last year and then obviously forgot about it, because how do you explain the fact that in the budget for this year, less money was allocated to USKOK than when it was founded, and by the way, it was founded by the former coalition government. And as for legal assumptions, I would remind us that the Penal Code was last amended in June of last year. It means 3 months after the National Anti-Corruption Programme was adopted. And then HDZ's majority in parliament rejected the amendment of counterpart Josipovic, and the adoption of that amendment would allow the convicted of corrupt acts to be taken away from property, i.e. that they must prove how to acquire that property. If the amendment had now been accepted in this particular case without a problem after its end to the corrupt vice-presidents of the Fund, property could be seized. All this clearly states what this so prominent political will of this government is. And then the prime minister wonders how the applause is missing. Well, because citizens don't trust this government. And they don't believe it because they feel the best in a corrupt society on their backs. We live in a society where everything is for sale and everything has its own price. So you know what the tariff is for getting, for example. disability pensions, to get a place in the hospital, to get a job, to enrol in individual colleges, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Citizens don't trust this government because during the entire term, they've been following various affairs, I'm not going to list them now, we've heard a lot about it today and we've talked about it. And how the citizens will then believe that the government is going to seriously deal with corruption half a year before the election. And a few more words about political responsibility. All three of the Fund's vice-presidents were appointed to the post in the term of office of the government. Therefore, they are HDZ personnel, as is the president of the HDZ Chamber Fund. And what's most important in the Fund's Management Board is four members of the government. I'd remind us it's Article 6. The Law on the Croatian Privatisation Fund is clearly stated that the Fund is managed by the Management Board of 5 members appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the Management Board manages the Privatisation Fund. The members of the Government sitting in the Management Board of the Fund shall be appointed there with the task of managing state property and keeping that property. And then they say they have no idea what was going on in the Fund during their term of office and they're not carrying any responsibility. And during their term of office, it happened that a million euros in bribes in a few months received 3 vice-presidents of the Fund and then the prime minister and his ministers say they are not responsible. I'd like to mention something else that didn't go over justifiably lightly. Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic said the whole action had to be over because one of the actors, namely Mr. Matanovic, discovered that he was being tapped. It's interesting that no one by the police, the D.A.'s office, nor does the government that talks the most about this whole case raises the question of who has shown the whole action. Because if it's true that the biggest anti-corruption action was only known by the inner circle of people, then the only explanation is that one of them did it. And that, on the other hand, actually points to the conclusion that a system that must fight corruption is corrupt in one part of it. And that's a problem you shouldn't go over so easily. And in the end, we have to ask ourselves once again what it is that still has to happen that the government or at least one of the ministers of this government is politically responding. 4 or rather 3 and a half years of the term of office of this government are low in affairs, and every time these affairs come out of these affairs by twisting the thesis in principle, it may be our fault, but others are also guilty. And the government's favorite thesis is that it's all the former government's fault. And that's why Sanader's team is being amnested by any responsibility. So he's trying to send a thesis, or send a message to the public, we're all the same. A government that is not responsible for its sins and is missing out on others is not the government. And it is high time Prime Minister Sanader understood what political responsibility it is and that, in accordance with that responsibility, he and his ministers began to act. But unfortunately, on the basis of everything we've had here today, it seems to me that we're asking too much of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91962	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91963	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Government and colleagues and fellow representatives. We are discussing the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of Article 114. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So not about the criminal, not about the material, but about, I'll translate it, about the working responsibility of the government and the ministers. And when we talk about it, then we have to say why the need arose. Well, because, I hope, between us today is not a dispute, there is no dispute about it because it has been found that corruption has been established in a state body for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible and in which the government is run by the ministers of that government, corruption has been established. Fortified corruption. And there's no question of any criminal responsibility for the time being, the Minister, nor is it within the parliament's purview. It's in the area of autonomous bodies. However, since the government refuses to accept responsibility for corruption at the Croatian Privatisation Fund before the Parliament, it refuses and an an-block can do so before the Croatian Parliament because it has a majority and it is not disputed. But they will not be able to remove responsibility from Croatian citizens, nor for corruption in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, nor for other affairs from Brodosplit, Sunny Hvar, Liburni Riviera Hotel, Stone-Ingrada, and they will not be able to remove any doubt or responsibility as to why roads are more expensive than projected prices? Croatian highway Zagreb-Rijeka 40 million EUR. And we can pull the black paint over it now, but we can't blur things out for the citizens. Unfortunately, in my opinion, the "Maestro" action in the interpretation of the Croatian government and prime minister, the Croatian government's president, stopped for Croatian voters in the election year. Why do I think that? Because mass statements by government officials and officials are being suppressed by one another. One time some people didn't know, another time no one knew, and then some say they found out when the action was over, and others say the action isn't over yet. That many more will enter the network, according to which, if I can quote the free president of the Croatian Parliament: "There will be huge hunts and more will be arrested" Big catch. [[Big, big catch.]] So you see that the action is not yet completed according to the position of the president of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the "VONS".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91964	The symptoms indicate a great hunt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91965	All right, all right. Give the symptoms to the citizens. ... That it hurts your head. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At the same time, the minister comes out and says, "We're familiar when the action is over." Well, I don't know who's seducing who, they'd say ordinary people, trains. The train. Okay. If, if the law that is in force and the Constitution that is in force says that the government is in charge of its decisions and not of its decisions, no... and the ministers individually for their part-time work, then it can't be logical that the Resor does not know of such an important action, especially the interior minister, who is being honest and co-ordinator of secret or security services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Security Service Coordinator doesn't know about such an important action in society. At the same time, the prime minister says he does not trust his ministers but trusts the institutions. And in his institution there has been crime and corruption which he trusts and endures no responsibility before the Croatian Parliament, and let's be honest, we have missed twice inviting the government to stick to the Constitution. I'll tell you now. When it comes to the interest of Prime Minister Sanader, when it comes to the own interest or the narrow party interest, then, with the help of the Croatian Parliament, the prime minister without question is changing the minister of justice, but only to inform this Parliament. Just inform the Parliament because, for, or how, as it then explained too, too, it was too connected to the public. Or alone with the public, alone with the public. And this is without a problem for the changed minister and there are no questions in the Croatian Parliament and when it comes, stand up for the independent institution of Croatian society, the democratic institution that in the Croatian Privatisation Fund is given as corruption as a bribe. And let me tell you right now, the ministers who run that fund say they don't know about it, and there's no responsibility at all. So whoever we let manage on behalf of the citizens of property and projects. Who did we give this to? Then what is the responsibility to the citizens? Oh, me, me, I have to say that this whole debate of the government has reminded me of a series of beggars and sons when Matan lifts above himself and says, "This one above me I don't smuggle anything," and everything around him. ... It's more like me, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not smuggling anything. That's what the government says. I don't know anything or the ministers say, "I don't know anything." The prime minister says, "I know, but please, just because I know the Fund is corrupt doesn't mean that my government is responsible. Because I already know it's corrupt." Well, it's absurd of absurds. And really get it over with. I think it's hard to expect, although this is difficult, I have to say, but without it I can't finish, it's hard to expect after 15 years of Croatian experience of conversion and privatisation, and this conversion and privatisation I didn't create, neither is my party. My party's leadership didn't even create it. It didn't want the consequences of privatisation or conversion. After 15 years of experience that we have to conclude at the end of the term that indeed the government has planned the "Maestro" action in order to fight corruption when the election year has already taken place. It's good, so let's go together no matter how much we created it ourselves with ministers, no ministers, and how much that action is over, as far as it isn't. We'll see. Experiences are very bad. We've had a lot of action so far, unfortunately all the same. It's just like old times. Perception among citizens remains. The government has a corruption style. The style is now also boasting that it does not recognise any responsibility for failures, no responsibility but asks for praise because corruption has occurred. So it remains style, and there will be perception. Unfortunately, real corruption will remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91966	I just need one thing to notice. The Minister of Justice has been resolved with... Parliament's consent because, as the president of the Croatian Parliament has signed a decision by the Prime Minister on the discharge of the minister, according to the Constitution. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is the solution, the solution to the resolution he signed, co-signed by the President of the Parliament [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, there's no need to make a statement to the Parliament. ... [[Intruder: Without a declaration by the Parliament.]] No, no, no, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You don't have to. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91967	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to me that we're a good part of today, here's what we've already spent 11, 12 hours here talking about Samantha. We're talking about whether the ministers are guilty. Well, ministers aren't guilty, no one told them they were guilty, so don't get angry or defend yourself from it. You are not guilty so far, until the state's attorney suspects you and the court condemns you, but you are responsible because you did not do what the law requires you to do, and that's the whole story. We could have shortened the story in two hours of discussion that the government was acting fair and saying that the really people saw it happen there, we didn't, we're loaded in 17 places, and we didn't know it, we didn't see it, so it happened to us and something's not going to happen anymore. Then a man might believe there are good intentions. I don't know about that. I don't know about that. We didn't know. Gentlemen, you brought them there and if they were working behind your back, you should have turned around and seen what people were doing, and what we object to in our request for mistrust is that you didn't know. If you knew that we don't object to you, someone else will object to you. There is one who complains about those who know of the evils, and do not report them, and do not do according to them what they should do. That's not us here. That's what the other institution has. What exactly is being done in the government, in the Parliament, in the fund? What is the essence of the state's functioning? So the preservation and management of the assets that the people had entrusted in the elections to that government, that government, that Parliament, that state, in the finality of that Privatisation Fund. He's in the government with this property, and it's not exactly small property to say we don't know what's going on with it. There's nothing being said in the House because the Privatisation Fund Supervisory Board appointed by this Assembly and led by a colleague of the Wrestleman not only did he not say anything, but he never met except to elect a president, which is also contrary to the statutes of the institution in question. So, at least they should have met politely to see what was going on, why they were appointed to that fund and what was there. We need to keep in mind, which is, above all, the political responsibility that every word, every decision, every act, every piece of paper that comes out of this House, that comes out of the government, is actually a money document, behind all that money, behind the fact that someone puts himself on the board of the Privatization Fund and doesn't do what the money is set for. That's what it costs. In this case, by a modest estimate it costs 30 to 40m euros of embezzled money, because if 800,000 is taken, then multiply it by the percentage that people admit to taking, that's an opportunity. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid for. What we want to show here today is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid without ministers doing their job, that they have remained in debt and it is called political responsibility. I could now ask the 14th Jubilee Road where is the report from the Board of Directors of the Fund. I'm not going to ask because obviously no one's going to answer that. They'd answer these 13 times, but the man who consciously does his job isn't having a hard time writing paper once a year, and in that paper I wrote it, this year I did it, that and I did it, and I put it together, that's what I'm left with, so I'm going to do it a year. The trust management board didn't do it. So these people currently in custody took bribes from police officers, i.e. from USKOK agents, they took 800 thousand euros. That doesn't sound so bad, but when we multiply it and convert it into kuna it's actually about six million kunas per year. People every assistant fund manager should work with a salary of 10 thousand kuna per month for 40 years, a complete working life from day one to the last to earn that money. They did it in one year, they put it in their pocket, they didn't earn it, they put it in their pocket and they took it from them, but they did it two years before, those same people. Now. ... That these people are capable, professionals who finished American schools there didn't learn that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There it is. ... A year and a half. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. There they didn't learn it for the simple reason that the system works differently there, as we in this House suggested that our system should function as well. There, police officers catch criminals on the road, and organized crime is caught by tax collectors. What our Government has rebuffed, therefore, is the introduction of a tax administration obligation to compare the mandatory increase in taxpayer property and the tax he paid in some past period. Our tax administration can do that, occasionally and does, most often not. Then it couldn't have happened that one, so I won't say "stupid," but a young man of 30, like that Mr. Gotanac, 30 years old, tells his friend that he doesn't even know how much money he's got, doesn't know how much money he's made. He's not even interested in the fact that the money's coming on the pile, he'll still come. You can make black money anywhere in the world. This is not a particular problem in the United States or in Europe or anywhere. But there are countries where the problem of that black money is spent, and then money launderers are hired, and they're very esteemed people in that Western world who take away one 40 percent of that money that you made in black to sort of run it into your account. This isn't really necessary. That's not necessary here. Money laundering in Croatia is just a phrase. You can make money like this today in one coffee shop of 50,000 euros, on another coffee shop of another 50,000 euros, go buy an apartment for 100,000 euros. No one in Croatia will ask you alive, so did you pay taxes on that money? Where did you get that money? That's not gonna happen. Unless you're politically inappropriate, or unless you're in, "maestro" in your hands and you're stuck on a violin bow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91968	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91969	Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I've been listening very carefully to here, eleven hours of all of you who have spoken so far, and I'm going to try to recapture some things. Namely, from the ranks of the majority of the HNS and SDP demands, it was seen as a poorly prepared request, as an unargumented requirement, as a pre-election campaign, as a political debacle. So here's one part of the epithet we got. My colleagues and colleagues! Every Croatian citizen over 35 years of age will give you at least 329 thousand arguments why privatisation and events in the Privatisation Fund were needed today. In fact, official data from the State Audit say that during privatisation in Croatia, just as many jobs have been lost 329 thousand jobs. So nearly 300 thousand families were left without income, a large number of people who worked 20, 25, 30 years suddenly found themselves on the street in a very difficult position. It's a strong argument that makes us have to talk about it. If you don't believe me, and if you don't believe us, ask the citizens you represent. I've spoken to people on the river streets in preparation for this point and everyone is bitter about what happened. My colleagues and colleagues! That kind of privatisation resulted in what? She said that today in the textile industry, we managed to save only every fourth job. In the leather industry, we managed to preserve every sixth job. In the chemical industry, every third job. In the paper industry, every other job. In the machinery industry, every other job. Today, industrial production of Croatia is only 75% of its production from a long time ago in '89. A year. We see how it was done, we've made arguments, we've explained why and how we think the government has to go. The people's wealth of this country ended up in the pocket of coffee and the people ended up at the labor desk. We've made it clear today a long series, a dozen, fifteen times, and I'm just going to do it one more time, who was basically setting up a college in the fund? It was the government and it was the board of directors. Who set up the board of directors? It was the government. Who was sitting there? They were ministers. Who was there to monitor what was going on, report regularly to both the government and the monitoring committee? They were ministers on that committee, they didn't. Well, I'm your colleagues and colleagues, then I'm asking. Then who do we make the laws for? Not just for my Rijeka fishermen or Slavonic peasants. Don't the laws apply to us Parliamentarians? Don't we have to respect the letter of the law? Don't ministers have to respect the letter of the law? That's not funny to me at all. I believe that, colleague Kirin, I believe it is. You know, when you're in my word, then I'm going to do a disgression here. I don't know if you're following the World Street Journal. It reported three weeks ago that a Chinese minister committed suicide and that corruption was discovered in his ministry. If there were the same moral and value criteria in us, Mr. Minister, would Croatia today have a government? I wonder if you'd have a government? Allow me to comment with a few more words and what the Prime Minister said this morning. Namely, he said while his ministers were on guard, thieves were discovered. That's incorrect. His ministers, his guards as members of the board of directors, have not discovered a single irregularity. The same was true in "Brodosplit", in one case Interpol did, in the other he did SCREAM. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister was wrong and it would have been polite if he had stayed here with us today, not if he had started sharing pensions with the postman. It's a political campaign. And what he did higher than this Parliament is essentially underestimating this Parliament. These examples of colleagues and colleagues suggest that government members either do not know their jobs or are directly involved in criminal activities. There's also a third option, that they're both both. And it's high time for our colleagues and colleagues to start taking bills. I don't share thieves on yours, ours and theirs. I share thieves on those who are behind bars and those who are not behind bars. The question is, why aren't some thieves behind bars? That's the question we've raised this request for. Why aren't some thieves behind bars? I'm going to skip this rest of it because most of it's already been brought out by other colleagues. My colleagues from the Croatian government, it's time for you to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91970	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91971	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government! I think this question that we are discussing today is actually much more important to look at in a broader context, and this is the question of whether what is happening here in the Croatian Parliament today, or what is happening in the Croatian public these days, will it contribute to corruption in this country? That's the key question. I would remind here, even though it was said that the corruption perception index towards the "transparency of the international" therefore pushed the organisation that has been doing this for 50 years and which in this sense is to be trusted and recognised, in the past few years from the 50th place of Croatia to the place where corruption is, according to the organisation's assessment, a serious problem for the functioning of the economy of a country. We did not believe this perception of corruption to this index, so a half year ago we announced that USKOK will conduct research together with the Law Faculty on whether the perception of corruption in our country is exactly what Transparency International says. It's been over half a year and we don't really know what the results of their research are, even though this decision is strange, giving such a single survey to two institutions of which neither one has experience in such research, and in particular to give it to USKOK because there is such research directly regarding his work is a bit odd not to say a funny decision, but the fact is therefore according to these credible information and indicators of Transparency International that the Republic of Croatia is a highly corrupt country and that corruption in our country is such that it makes it significantly difficult to function its economic life. And that is why the important question is whether what is happening in connection with the Maestro action will contribute to the fight against corruption in this country being better and stronger than it has ever been. And so far it has been that we have the findings of the State Audits which, according to the Croatian Parliament, are all directed to the State Attorney's Office with all possible findings, along with the information of course that 90% of the privatisation in this country in the past 15 years has been either illegal or caused any apparent damage to the economic life of this country, and that we do not actually have almost any nor just words, not just convictions, but we do not have almost one single indictment of those almost a thousand cases which are referred by the State's audit to the State's attorney of the Republic of Croatia. So much for the state's attorneyship as part of our system is effective in fighting corruption. It seems more effective than any of our other bodies, but that is certainly an indicator of the overall weakness of our country and society to deal with this problem. The same is true with the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 15 December 2005 of which none of the 9 conclusions of the Croatian Parliament have been reached. What can we expect from some of the lower institutions when our institutions, the State's Attorney's Office, the Privatisation Fund treats the highest legislative body and the country's highest political body. There was talk here today about the opposition being struck by fear of what would be further. I would agree with the opposition and anyone who thinks well of this country, but not because something is going to happen but that nothing is going to happen and that more or less everything will stay the way it has been. Because in order to fight corruption as a strong trend, a strong process requires a manifestation of strong political will and recognition of political responsibility, and there is no such thing as we have seen here today. If political responsibility is manifested from the highest level, from the level of the government and its highest bodies, then of course it will be better for all those involved, and those who would like to use state goods, public goods for their own breakthroughs, and when these political responsibilities do not have any fear. That's what the Croatian Privatisation Fund said. The Croatian Privatisation Fund is not just any institution. This is in the Croatian political public regarding the corruption of evil that has caused this country, the country's most hated institution. There are top officials on the board of directors, five ministers, the head of the fund is the secretary of state, and in that institution with such an image in our public, people dare to do what they did. So what happens in other institutions of this country that are far from the eyes of the public and which are not to this extent hated and distributed, such as the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That means those people weren't afraid. They were not afraid of these ministers nor of the State Secretary nor of that rule of law, but it best illustrates what perceptions and these people are, but the overall state of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. Political responsibility needs responsibility for the functions and tasks you have taken over, and in the last 15 years, we have manifested political responsibility to this country, and in the last three years, three major affairs where it is indisputable, where nothing can be raised and doubted that these responsibilities would not exist. The first, of course, is the "Brodosplit" affair where the minister of the board of directors says he has no idea what was going on and that he is not responsible for embezzling $5m. So who might be responsible if it isn't the minister who's a member of the supervisory board of our company. The second question is the responsibility of Minister Calmeta for what his driver did, the man with whom he lived and worked for 10 or 15 years, whom he brought from Zadar here to Zagreb, which he had not been imposed on, and he says he has no idea what was going on and what this man was doing, the man with whom he spent ten hours a day for the past ten years. And the third most recent example is the Croatian Privatisation Fund where board members have no idea what was going on there, and not even the Secretary of State who is there daily, whose place of employment is just the cornerstone of his mission is to control what's going on there, and he doesn't know what's going on there. Well, it's impossible to run one such institution for more than half a year without catching up, breaking stakes, making decisions, etc. It means you're not involved in it. So if you could even set up some issue of course incorrect that the board members were not responsible, they did not know because it is not their basic task, as it can be claimed to be a State Secretary whom no one mentions as responsible here. And what political responsibility this tells us is a great example of 30 years ago in Germany when the most popular Chancellor of the great state at the height of political power and success Willy Drand automatically resigned because of political responsibility because it was discovered that his chief of staff was spying for the East German Secret Service. It is a real manifestation of political responsibility, and while it is not there, there is no talk about this country going into some more powerful steps in the fight against corruption. As people walk this country, they were citizens or officials who are 4.5 times richer than the tax revenues they paid this country. No, especially if they're parade officials, who aren't ashamed, who aren't hiding their wealth. Your houses, villas, yachts, watches. There's no way we're going to move forward in the fight against corruption. And unfortunately I have to repeat, yes, we're scared. This is what the President, Vice-President of the Assembly Mr. Bebic said, but not because something is going to happen in that sense but that nothing will happen, and that "Maestro" will only be a ceremony, one of the peaks of the Croatian rule of law, but unfortunately it will also be the swan song of the same state. And that's why we're afraid because it's going to stay more or less the way it's been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91972	It could be a swan lake. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91973	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, here I am among those MPs who often do not report for debate in this assembly. But I belong to those MPs who have been staying in this assembly almost from the beginning until the end of the day, and I'm only 30th in an individual debate. I could have checked in sooner. I had no intention of participating in this debate. It did not inspire me to apply for debate, nor did this decoration that met us in this assembly this morning, however, but the obligation to report and to say a few words was imposed upon me by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader with his blatant stand in this assembly in front of us this morning and even more than that by his underestimating relationship with us MPs and unfortunately for this and such a relationship with us he received a round of applause from a fellow Croatian democratic community. He was escorted out of this assembly by applause, but I think you forgot to get up when the big boss comes out, then it's time to get up especially after such a arrogant and underestimating relationship with us MPs. And that's why I want to, and that's the only reason he's got me, he's forced me to say a few words about this otherwise important subject, and in this remote time there's a lot of it said, but I can't miss a few words to say. And I personally think that, in a correction to the incorrect allegations, I have already said that until this debate about distrusting the Croatian government, I apologize for the expression of the Croatian government because I was truly convinced that it was the Croatian government. And today I learned from this government that it is not the Croatian government but the HDZ government, in this House of the High that it really shouldn't have come. That the gentlemen of the HDZ government of trust or mistrust that you have any morals or feelings of responsibility to Croatian citizens should not have come. You're already responsible for your resignation. But what is political responsibility for you? What is morality for you? What is your responsibility to the citizens of Croatia? These are unfortunately categories that you don't know. Unfortunately, this debate today and here is a sad Croatian reality. Croatian society was created, the Croatian state and defended by the enemy by the care of its citizens and the lives of its defenders, but unfortunately, by the political will of HDZ, Croatian society was impoverished and disproved by criminal conversion and privatisation in the HDZ way. Unfortunately, in Croatia, almost all of the laws you HDZ gentlemen have created have been stolen. I'm not interested in any call from which miles are converted thieves. The political will of HDZ has helped them to be thieves on the burden of their citizens. HDZ laws have sent 400,000 workers to the streets, reduced the value of former social capital and created tycoons without tools and without craft. The great patriots who have been drilling into the patriot's chest over the past 17 years robbed this country while some Croatian poor country was defended. Second, even the generals robbed Croatia. You and such today do not recognise either the Croatian state or its institutions. In my opinion, the biggest tragedy is that the poored citizens in their impotence have become completely apathetic. They don't even look back on the daily robbery, bribery, corruption, nepotism, and it's just because they feel powerless. And you can see now that the action "Maestral" is in progress, which from the heart and with full enthusiasm I accept and support Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Luka Bebić says some are shaking. Let them shake. The more they shake, the more I like it, the more my heart is in place. And as soon as they shake more, I don't ask which miles they come from and which ones... Let them shake if they have, means they have reason to shake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I cannot accept the words of an esteemed colleague, Markovovic, who said in his debate, "No one in this country is safe." Mr. Markovanovic, he's not here, no, I don't accept your thesis. I feel completely safe. I'm absolutely certain because I'm pure cheek and unsuspecting of anything and there's no reason why I shouldn't feel safe in this country. You've also called VONS completely inappropriate when you can see who was gathered on that VONS. Crime is undoubtedly at the top of government institutions, and politicians are responsible for what they do and for what they do not do. Corruption is according to one of the definitions, and there are more...... Well, yeah, and I'm proud of it, and I can look at you openly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you want to continue to throw. Then I'm forced to answer you, yes. Corruption is according to one of the definitions which otherwise exists and has several acts or failures in the performance of its duties and neglect of general interest by a public official or a public official. And that's unequivocal. And therefore to talk about the lack of political responsibility. We are not looking here and we are not discussing the criminal responsibility of government members but political responsibility. But it is clear to me, after the step of the esteemed colleague of Paseksky in this House, that you have a political responsibility. He literally said he had no political responsibility or responsibility to the MPs, that he had no political responsibility to Croatian citizens, that there was only political responsibility to HDZ. And normally, you have in this House most of them. The relationship to political responsibility is as you have stated and therefore, I understand that no matter how much you deny it and the results of tonight's vote, but they will actually be just a confirmation of what the esteemed colleague Pasecky said when it comes to your understanding of political responsibility. I must tell you that Veronica, Brodosplit, Liburni has not cooled, and at the door we have "Maestro", and members of the Supervisory and Management Committees of the Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers reject both the most banignous political and moral responsibility. Imagine, apparently they didn't know anything. Which is a defense if they didn't know anything, means they didn't do their job well on the Supervisory and Management Board, so they're guilty again and they're obliged to resign. And you gentlemen aren't ready to resign. We won't vote your mistrust. And that is clear to me, but believe that your mistrust because of your political responsibility will be voted by the citizens of Croatia in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91974	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91975	I thank Mr. President and it is really necessary to correct this quote from your dear colleague when you said that our prime minister's performance this morning was arrogant and underestimating. That's incorrect. His performance was very argumentative. He is for the sake of those I must say that they are now involved and who are now following this debate this hour he said that it is in his interest to stand at the end of corruption. He said that and how this government made it possible, it created preconditions to actually stop corruption called on the opposition to engage in the fight against corruption. You said how we finally applauded. Well, just a minute, remember. We applauded him the moment he announced he was leaving to share the third war with the pensioners when we said yes, yes, yes, and forgive those pensioners, and these pensioners are not HDZ pensioners. These are our parents, all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91976	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91977	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, as the Prime Minister says. While our guards have caught them, you know how the people say you're stealing or keeping watch. That's what the people say. So, we've been saying things here today. Most of us did not stick to the subject, because the topic is the political responsibility of ministers who sat in the Management Fund, and thus clearly the Government, but my God. The themes are gone, far away from the subject. There was talk of privatisation. I don't even know if we remember when that privatisation started in '92, third. Whether she started dear God knows, but one of the first privatisations was if you remember “Vinogradar” Vis. Interesting privatisation. It was attended by a director of the HNK, and I would be very pleased, I would be very pleased to have it back so we could see what happened to that privatisation. That would be very interesting. So, and about that, that privatisation of ours has been said a lot. The late Mile Terzic spoke all other countries have the mafia, the mafia has Croatia when there were talks about privatisation. Cardinal Bozanic spoke of the sin of structure. Archbishop Barisic spoke of the crime in Ludbreg Mr. President of the Parliament you were present and followed by a great... /President: We were there together./...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no. The teacup was with you. I'm not. Ludbreg didn't. No. You're just a big... paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, Barisic was talking about the crime. Yeah. But, thank God, here we are, and now we've established that Matanovic and two other vice presidents and a couple who haven't been arrested are guilty of everything, because there's only two provoking agents who took 800,000 euros in cafes within a year, and now imagine what happened in that year because these are just two provocator agents. Just two. And imagine how many people, I mean let Lesar know how many there were. And now imagine how many more people are around...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91978	Please do not interfere with your colleague, Kapraljevic, because then you can unfocus him. Marasovica, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91979	Don't be afraid, Mr. President, I can't be distracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91980	I know, but he's still on guard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91981	So, where was I? So how much did they just take from those who weren't agents of the provokers in that year, and imagine how long it's been taken in those 15 years before. Imagine how long it took. I don't know if you were in the fund when? No, you're being beat up by the police at that time when you were taking the most. Yeah, and now watch what's going on. So today we can talk about it for days, hours, days, weeks, we won't achieve anything or solve anything because it happened and what Royce said about the mosque, the mosque, ate the donkey wolf and the hip. However, if anything can be talked about, then it can be talked about the fund's reports, so the Fund's Management Board, can be talked about, for example, Shima Prutniki, who is showing up in various replicas today and has not held a single session of the Supervisory Board. They don't eat. And you know why Shime didn't hold any board meetings? So he knows what's going on out there. Well, he's not crazy about keeping it. Then he's guilty. Now look. And what's going on, so there's no reports, and I'm not just not having reports, ten times asking for a report, and no one's going to say if they did or didn't. And I know, they're made. And they're standing at Mr. Sanader's. Because he's the only one that matters. The only thing that matters is Sanader. Ministers don't exist here. It's not their poor fault. They can't even say they did it. Because here you see. You have a newspaper from today, you have a newspaper from today, here's all the fiction in which my friend Calmeta says at the opening of the road yesterday if it weren't for Mr. Sanader's projects like this wouldn't be possible. Sanader's old famous builder how much he built, a few reconstructions of apartments as far as I know. Yeah. And now imagine that Sanader designed the programs, invented the money, and you made me a 37km road for your term. Bravo. Bravo. And now what happens? So this friend of ours Sanader who's gone now, because he's under the honor of being here with you. He's got a different, more important job that he doesn't have right now, he won't even hear it. Well, he learned it wisely from Tudjman, and I learned it, too, that the most important thing is to have a hand more. And then you can go away from that will. If you've got more hands and you've got it covered, and God damn it, he's done it to me these days. He made a deal with Fristic, agreed with Djapico, arranged with Šišljagić, my friend Letica and other independent long ago purchases. So everything has as many hands as you want. And I can't, I can't be surprised who we come down here and torture ourselves, here's 10 o'clock, and we're still struggling and we're standing here sweating with this very bad climate, Mr. President. And it's bad that we do. And this Sanader clearly he's not sweating he's somewhere at dinner, 100%. So he's not sweating, he knows everything, the minister's gone, the government's gone, Sanader's the government. And my God. We can't replace this government because it's all fine-tuning, buying, bribery, I'm not going to say that harsh little roar we're discussing today. Because we're not going to catch one, something that's very important and that seems very important to me, which is, say, a tax card. Tax card since '94. A year. Let's see who's what you earn and who's what. And let's say that he's the Prime Minister that he's a hundred thousand Marks, so let's say that he's a million Marks of Donia from Austria. And you know it's not. So let's see who's got what. Well, then let's heroically go out on a heroic occasion, see who's a corrupt bia, who's not. That's what they're talking about. ... Shuker about you won't, you know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And don't throw it at me. Even if you could talk here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91982	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91983	Ma Yakshu is impossible to correct, the speech would have to be longer than his. But repeat says Shime is trying to defend her with replicas etc. But, Shime, no one's getting a replica tonight. So as Jaksha says I don't know where I started, she probably doesn't even know where it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91984	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91985	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Marasovic incorrectly claimed that the government made 37km of highways. And it's not the only inaccuracy. But here's just for the facts. As the former government built 169km of highways, this government built these 37km of highways. You'd probably know that, too. Fortunately, you're not a critic. You'd probably know that, but here, it looks like some money is saving, and some are spending on some centiliters and decilitres.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91986	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91987	Mr. President, more than that, the colleague incorrectly stated, and in particular he did not highlight any more roads that are currently being worked in the Split-Dalmatia County area and are just before the end. It is not a highway but a state road, even more important, connecting Trogir, Kaštela, Solin, Split, Omis more than 60km, plus what counterpart Matušić said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91988	And a respected representative, Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that a million euros is worth a lot more than 9 and 900 from Jaksa Marasovic because he left 9 and 800 in Trnjanka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91990	Is that replica got one? She's gone, isn't she? Yes, it is. Honourable representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91991	Here's a colleague of mine was talking about this "Maestro" affair, that is, this... What now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And about this, even before this, the Maestro legal work sang a maestro one song in one of our famous weeks, and it's called "Barr's Flies," "Goodbye to Vukovar, in Verona waiting for Barr. We'll watch the opera while the money spills. Barritone's guilty. We're whispering about Pliva. But with the tenor, the business is closed. There's passion on the boards. I keep power in the shed. Tenor's soprano's throat is washed.".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91992	Replication response. You want Jake and you in the musical part of the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91993	Now, I'll take care of you, since you have a Saturday convention where you'll be 6 and a half thousand, I'll just remind you of a famous tune and you'll have to sing like this, "My friend Ivo we swear to you and we don't turn away from your path.".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91994	All right, all right. Here. Now they've been going through some bright notes. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91995	Thank you, Mr. President. You expect it won't go away now. Because you announced...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91996	Like a symphony.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91997	Well, here's the thing. We live in a society where the affair is getting into an affair. I've listed what affairs we've had before Liberia and around Liberia. And I've listed all the ones we've had in the meantime. I don't have to say it again. You know them very well. In every affair, you stood behind whoever was involved in the affair. The difference between me and you, now I speak for myself. The difference between you and me is that you'll justify each one of your own when you steal, but you'll always do it because you're so organized, because that's how you work. Besides, that's what my colleague Pasecky said he only fits his own game. Strangers, fine, but I translated it into a party. It reminds me of some time that you can't even think of. Mr. Jarnjak to you for clarification, I while I was ministering many of your men danced a kosher wheel, many of yours. Let's get this straight. I only regret one thing. I regret that this Croatia is not at least a crumb like that of Croatia that I wanted at the time. This Croatia differs in this and is terribly different because the corruption perception index in Croatia is such that it places us in place with Burke's Fasi in 70th place, with Le Sota I see that you do not know other similar exotic countries. You think, and I don't believe that's what you wanted in Croatia. All we have to do is look at how we got to her. We came here by converting and privatizing which was a robbery, which was a robbery of Croatian property. I don't blame those who did it at all. I resent those who made it possible for them. And you know who gave them that? He who then passed laws, because most of it was done by law, according to the law that most of it was then, and that's what HDZ did. And not to read how a criminal organization is formed. I've read that to you before. In fact, how the BUSKOK and how the Penal Code define a criminal organization. I would like to ask you myself if a decision is made by the Government which changes shares between the Croatian Privatisation Fund of the Croatian Pension Insurance and End-user Institute, these are four in the chain. By law, it's organized crime. That's what we should talk about. Mr. Jarnjak, today we're talking about the Privatisation Fund, but I hear you're giving words to me. Gentlemen, Mr. Shakespeare, the President of the Parliament said when we became boastful, the people told us that we had to leave. This debate of yours today where you point out all the strength to protect people who say they didn't know anything, they didn't do anything, they had no idea, your debate today is an expression of haughtiness. The purest of boasts. You don't want to talk about political responsibility at all, and there are gentlemen. It's a political responsibility that they didn't keep what they were told to keep. And the difference between me and you is that for me, a thief was a Croatian, a Serb, a Muslim, and not to count further. Was he of this faith, of those faiths, or do I not know which faiths? Was he any party, one, the other, the third, the red, the yellow, the green, the blue. That's the difference between you and me. And you'll do anything to protect your thieves, which is arrogance. Do I have to repeat when you stood up for those who participated in the affairs? "Bechtel", "Imostroj", "Brodoplit", Mr. Kalmeta and his driver, HAC, Croatian Privatisation Fund, "Liburnija", "Sun-Sun-Hvar", access road Zadar, Silver, "Plive" or better translated by Verona and... And not to count further, and there was more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you've always stopped to defend those who have found themselves in these affairs and normally not to go in replication today, but to correct incorrect allegations, because you just don't want to give us a chance to tell you something, and that's kind of arrogance, and that's certainly going to reward the citizens. You've been going with tags all along, switching balls, and you've been wanting to talk all the time from start to end. Today is not a topic from beginning to end. When you open the topic from the beginning to the end, be sure that I will participate in this debate and I do not care who you open or who you open, but open it. Today we are talking about the responsibility of your people and your government. And why is that? One of the reasons is that these people were called you. These people were set up by HDZ, no one else. And Mr. Hebrang says, I chose Matanović, Cash and Pesa because I wanted top professionals. [[Intruder: Andrija Hebrang.]] He's got professionals who've received 800 beautifully. 800 thousand euros in bribery. [[Intruder: What do we know.]] They're real professionals. I just don't know who they were studying with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91998	It's not very common for a whole party in this case to declare HDZ to protect thieves. You have now filed a charge against the entire Croatian democratic community, Mr Kapraljevic, not an indictment, but a verdict against the entire Croatian democratic community, that it has done everything to protect its thieves. That is extremely offensive, and that is why it is inevitable for you to give a warning. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u91999	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, Mr Kapraljevic incorrectly said that the citizens would recognise and reward the way the Croatian government works. That's incorrect. It is already true that citizens always reward and recognise what crime and corruption means, as they recognized in 2003 in Virovitica the mayor who fell for 600 kuna bribes. But also your friend from Podravska Slatina, the bankruptcy manager from HNS, who fell for 200 thousand kuna bribes. And these were the beginnings of fighting corruption in your ranks and against your appointed members. That's what this picture says that you're very rebelling against. And a series of such examples that citizens will constantly reward when they are exposed and when these signs come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92000	Second correction by the respected representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92001	Mr. President! In fact, I resent you for not giving him any harsh warnings because he insults this sovereign state. And Burkina Faso and Lesotto and a whole series of countries, and it's a common practice in this House of Commons. This means inadmissible, as Jaksa Marasovic once expressed those famous racist views, do not laugh at colleagues, both about Roma and Serbs, etc. So, Kavljevic, don't think, he didn't drink, he sat at Jaksha's all day. ... these situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92002	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92003	Here, I'm waiting for them to calm down. Your Honor, Mr. President! I would correct the incorrect assumption that our debate is blasphemous. I don't think our debate is arrogant, it's quite the opposite. But I would also like to remind you of a debate about two years ago after which we discovered that dear colleague Kapraljevic, while he was a craftsman, did not pay taxes to the Croatian State. So I find it extremely untasteful that today he teaches us lessons about who we are and who we are, saying that the difference between us and you is that he is moral and we are all immoral, that he dreamed of a different Croatia. He probably dreamed of Croatia in which he wouldn't have to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92004	The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92005	Well, it's been repeated several times that the difference between him and us with that accusation before we defend our leader. Unfortunately, I cannot defend my true leader who created this country because he is deceased, and many times you have indirectly called him tonight, and now I have the president of the party, the government, etc. And secondly, that is, of course incorrect because you defend your leader because you do not present tonight with all the cases listed how the "Coning" occurred, to most hotels in Zadar space, to most, etc., even during the ministerial term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92006	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. No, I don't. Josip Fiolić [[Intruder: Štef Fiolić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92007	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm Stjepan Fiolić...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92008	How isn't Joseph now? Stephen, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92009	And I'm glad we talked a little bit lately, but Mr. Representative said he was glad he was a minister today, but as far as I know the last few days that the church is sorry that he was a minister. Gentlemen and here are several advocates imagined but no one is HDZ. You'd look at your right side, there's imaginary faces and hands under your chins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92010	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92011	Thank you very much. Well, I'll list a few incorrect allegations, but since they come from Mr. Kapaljevic, it's really in vain to waste words. Comrade Capralevich! It's not a HDZ criminal organization. Crimes are your methods to keep telling lies if you know they don't exist and it's true. HDZ and this government are not criminal, they created this country. Your government and your party are destroying it with such lies and criminal statements. As far as the criminal statement is concerned, I'm saying that because you know that the state's audit has determined that the procurement... at the Ministry of Health in my office was perfectly fine, modeled procurement was done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You repeat it over and over again. I guess that's why you're using your criminal method to clean off your party, from your little chateau, and cause your tax evasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92012	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92013	Thank you, Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, the Prime Minister appeared to us in the assembly. Pointed out and turned the thesis to convince us to believe what he wanted without believing the facts. I would like the shame of the members of the government working, i.e. they do not work on the board of directors of a crime fund, which the President of the State said was a crime. Mr. Prime Minister said his ministers were not responsible. And I'm not surprised we won't vote no confidence in the ministers and the government tonight. It would actually be a miracle if it happened. And to explain to those who wonder why the opposition's representatives even launched this request when they know they don't have enough hands. I have to say, it's precisely because of the political responsibility we've been discussing all day, because there's just some things that have to be said. Not out of fear that this action happened, but just by agreeing with those who are afraid that, unfortunately, everything will stop at this action. Right now it's about the fund, and we'd be happy to go back to the beginnings of it, so if you want this unfortunate privatisation and conversion. The prime minister says there is no political responsibility and calm and satisfied to leave the assembly. Peaceful and contented because he knows and his ministers and representatives of the ruling majority also know that only obediently warm themselves in the sun of the prime minister's grace. So if he says he doesn't have political responsibilities, then he doesn't. The prime minister chose his ministers, the parliament confirmed them. It would be expected for these ministers and the government to protect the interests of Croatian citizens and to expect any knowledge and children of primary school first four classes, if something is called an administrative fund to have to manage something, if something is supervised by the logic of things to monitor something. We found out here today that the Supervisory Board didn't even meet, but of course it's not responsible. A crown argument for the innocence of the ministers who participated, i.e. They didn't participate in the work of the management fund is that they didn't know anything. I wonder how much ignorance is needed to gain some important function, and I wonder why HDZ colleagues wonder at the demand for political responsibility. Some other institutions are taking care of that criminal. This is if you really want to sincerely fight bribery and corruption an extremely good opportunity to prove it actively. Gentlemen, you can't be in a trust fund and not obey the law on that same fund, not exercise it and wash your hands like Poncir, Pilate, and being completely innocent of what's going on there. We've been brought into doubt. Are our ministers incompetent or are they sent there with the task of not knowing? .../Conversation disabled and re-enabled./... I can understand to the Ministers when they say they don't feel politically responsible, and you know why, because that's what the Prime Minister thinks. Only with the prime minister you are not sure that the opinion will not change the moment when the pressure of the public or the international community becomes strong enough, and then he, who created himself, who, without his knowledge and consent, could not or could not have done anything, will be dealt with and shown as another evidence of his fierce fight against corruption. Mr. Prime Minister said that this successful action was a severe blow to corruption, to corruption in this society. I'm afraid not. I should remind the prime minister that one owner does not make spring, and no successful action can be evidence of a successful fight against corruption. We'd be happy if that were the case, but it's not. Mr. Prime Minister said something else. How thieves in this country will no longer sleep peacefully. My colleagues and colleagues are less interested in cocoa sleepers, whether they have a quiet dream or not, I suppose that because if they had consciences and had not to rob their people, we don't have to worry about their dream. I'd like Mr. Prime Minister to deal with how, i.e. whether he sleeps peacefully those 300 thousand unemployed, those 11% poor and those who live on their salaries and work by constantly being in the downfall. Their dream is more important. And in order for them to sleep peacefully, it is not enough to place small fish behind bars and wave it as an exceptional success, it should be a good will to support concrete moves so as to vote for an extended period of time for economic crime or even that such criminality cannot go out of date and it should be possible to take away illegal and immorally acquired property, because it is not enough for these troubled people to be behind bars alone. And I agree with those who said thieves can't be divided into yours and ours and that they shouldn't be kept like that. Thieves can and must only be divided into those who are behind bars and those who are not and do all they can to keep them behind bars as much as possible, but also to take away their property. If we all really agree with that, then we'll do the job easily. However, if there are some at the declarative level and if they really think that ours and their thieves exist, then they will be on that people's "shaking hills and being born mice" and, as so far, nothing will happen. That's what we gentlemen are afraid of. That's what I'm afraid of. I would like, like most citizens of this country who live honestly, to experience the full functioning of the rule of law and as much justice as possible. We're talking about the fund today, but I also agree with those who worked for the government's mandate, but I am also for those who would talk about the fund from his draft. Because you know when this state was created and defended, and it was created by the Croatian people and not by any party, it was created by those who were in the trenches and during that time lost their jobs, and some who were not smart and beautiful but similar, and at the right time, they took their jobs, took their property. Especially with us in Eastern Slavonia, that "some bullet and some property" came true. Some gentlemen held one hand in their hearts and the other in our pockets. They loved Croatia very much, so they wanted to own it as much as possible, which in real estate and what in cash is not a question. And they can afford a luxury and end up in jail and eat away a few years, provided they keep their property acquired. It is not a particular punishment when you know that their descendants will be prominent citizens of this society who will determine the future of all those who have not been lucky to get rich, who have worked honestly, who really loved and loved Croatia, who would like it to be just as much as possible because absolutely fair, fair and absolute democracies do not exist. And let's not fool ourselves that this will be possible in Croatia, but let's show our true will to punish those who robbed, deceived and took away their property. Because gentlemen, what they love most is money. And if we want them to be hurt and punished, they should be taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92014	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd say I'd like to correct a colleague who said the prime minister left pleased. The prime minister did not come out pleased because this whole discussion, this whole, this play that is here today, is not suitable for the Croatian people. And I apologize to the entire Croatian people who watch this over TV, apologize to the journalists who have to be here and watch this play of yours. We're wasting our time, ministers wasting their time so that you can achieve your propaganda. And I once again to anyone who has to watch this, who, through television, sees this as a single fight of politicians unproductive. Mrs. Pusic, please let me speak. You've had plenty of opportunities to speak and you'll still have opportunities to speak and please nice, please don't interrupt me nicely, don't be nervous. I don't know why you're nervous. You have Mr. Cacic, so ask him why his processes went out of date. Mrs. Pusic, ask that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92016	Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92017	And don't be cynical and don't laugh at the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92018	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92019	Mr. President, Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter The constitution says that the government responds to the Parliament, that the president and members of the government collectively respond to joint decisions, and that each minister is individually responsible for the part-time of his work. That's what the Constitution says. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks of responsibility. Is there any reason to discuss the minister's responsibility today? The actions of state institutions suspect the vice-presidents of the Fund for Illicit Actions. Taking bribes, illegal privatisations, harming state property. This action by state institutions immediately gives the possibility that there is a responsibility of government members. And that's the topic we're trying to talk about today. Why do we feel that there is a responsibility of government members? All three vice-presidents were appointed by the Management Board, appointed by members of the government. They are responsible for the miselected vice presidents of the Fund. The Privatisation Act envisioned the possibility of illegal actions and sought to reduce the possibility of illegal actions by means of its provisions. And that's why the law itself obliges the Management Board to report to the government at least once a year. He has to inform the government. Have we established today that the Management Board has not been reporting to the Government on financial findings in the Fund? Therefore, the Management Board did not respect the law and thus avoided the possibility of illegal actions and suspicions of illegal activities. Is there a responsibility for members of the government? There is. But the law itself has estimated that the government should also report this Parliament once a year on privatisation procedures and the work of the Privatisation Fund. The government should report to this Parliament. It's a legal provision. In four years, have there been discussions in this House about this legal obligation? It wasn't. Is there a responsibility for the entire government because they did not report to the Croatian Parliament? There's a responsibility. Because they didn't follow the law, and the law was written just to avoid the possibility of illegal events. The Croatian Parliament, by discussing the problems and harmfulness of privatisation procedures, has, in its conclusion, committed the action to carry out certain investigative actions and to report to the Croatian Parliament on this. The council has committed it. Has the Government acted on the obligations of the Parliament? It's not. Is there a government responsibility? There is. So every question when we talk about laws, when we talk about conclusions, the answer is imposed, imposes. There's a responsibility. The SDP has also launched a mistrust procedure for Vice-President Polancec over the Liburia affair. In one point of these arguments, it was stated that Mr Polancec did not implement the government's decision to replace Mr. Gotovina... /The speaker was excluded./... He didn't make the government's decision, the vice president didn't make the government's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92020	Let's make it possible, please, to allow the representative to continue the debate. I warn those who do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92021	Thank you. He didn't make the government's decision. Is there a responsibility of a member of the government? There's a responsibility. Every question we find, there's a responsibility. Mr. Prime Minister, aware of all this, clearly says there is no responsibility for any member of the government, and that is why we are discussing today the mistrust of the entire government. All these answers that say that the members of the government should have acted not to have illegal actions, that they had to respect both the law and the decisions of the Assembly we are constantly getting the answer are responsible, they are responsible because they did not comply with the laws, they did not respect the obligations imposed by the Croatian Parliament and that is the topic we are discussing today. And what is the message we want to send from this House? First of all, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader sent a message. His style of conduct is something we will remember forever – arrogant, rude, unEuropean. Yes, it is the behavior that we could really witness today in the Croatian Parliament. It's what's called the Prime Minister's behavior. In fact, our questions on the basis of the constitutional principle and constitutional provisions are considered obstruction in the fight against crime. In fact, so much pride, the irresponsibility of the Prime Minister who says we support crime. We're the ones handing over bribery and corruption. Yeah, it's the president's behavior. It is the behavior of the president who has lost every character of one European Prime Minister. That's what we could testify today. This was sent today from this pay phone to the citizens of Croatia. That's how the president of the Croatian government behaves. The Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia behave. How does the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia behave? He also comes out for a pay phone, follows his president's example and constantly tries to talk about investigations against the former government because his job is to find fault with former members of the government. It's a message about how we act. This is what we say about the system of rule of Ivo Sanader and his ministers constantly talking about the responsibility of both criminal and political, but the predecessor. They know every subject of the previous governments, but they do not know what we are talking about today where their responsibility is for the failures, the non-implementation of legal provisions and the non-implementation of decisions of the Croatian Parliament. But we didn't just stop at the prime minister's and the representative's behaviour, I apologize to the government's minister. No, we have also seen today in the Croatian Parliament how we discuss and how we behave as politicians. Yes, the messages are very clear. The messages are very clear. It is essential to order Croatia's citizens all politicians are dirty, all your politicians are the same. All politicians are bandits, all politicians... It's a message from you from HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some citizens know how we communicate, how we carry the burden of political functions. That's what we're different about. Therefore, we are turning serious talks about the responsibility it imposes on us and the Constitution into ugly political messages. Your responsibility, many will know it and recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92022	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92023	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that ministers are responsible for the event at the Croatian Privatisation Fund and I would like to say that it is a top cynicism that Slavko Linic is talking about political responsibility. He personally led the transfer process of 700 million kuna from the state budget to the private company of his friends, Vrhnik. He personally culminated in the bankruptcy of “Viktor Lenca” and if someone were politically responsible then it was Slavko Linic and if he had real awareness of political responsibility then he would not be sitting in the Croatian Parliament but would be doing some other work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92024	Drazen Bošnjaković, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92025	Mr. President, the esteemed representative of counterpart Linic said right at the end of his statement that the message to us from HDZ is that all politicians are thieves and dirty. It's not only untrue but it's actually one very harsh attack on HDZ that deserves an actual warning. I don't have to say it's incorrect. I wonder what your message was when you did this with “Vicor Lenco” as your colleague Jandrokovic said, and especially when you installed the New York administration in “PIC” Vrbovec, which you paid 80,000 dollars a month. Today, that administration is sitting in jail and responsible for everything she's done. I wonder what your message was back then?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92026	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92027	Comrade Linić, you have paid good attention to what is actually the cancer of Croatia's wounds. This is the last report by the European Commission. Black on white there stands literally – economic crime is growing, the fight against highly-positioned corruption in Croatia has not started and there is black on white they find that economic crime and corruption are booming with us. Conscious of such a fact.../The speaker shut down and reactivated./... It is precisely in our criminal legislation that we introduce, among other things, what has been passed about as a framework of legislation, amending the incrimination of economic crime, and we have extended the statutes to 30 years. It was suspended in this term. The government keeps refusing to incriminate these incriminates, and why? Well, the message's clear. He wants this investigation gone without a trace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92028	Reply to the replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92029	That colleagues, the European report, foreign investors' assessments of the last 4 years of Ivo Sanader's mandate regarding the battle against corruption are very negative. Shame on Croatia. Shame on Croatia. But these are grades that President Ivo Sanader has not admitted for four years. He's making fun of me. It's the behavior of the president of the Croatian government. He does not recognise the estimates that Croatia's reputation in its 4 years has been violated because there was no battle against corruption. And today when we open the question of the government's responsibility, he's not with us today. He doesn't think he should be with us. He again sends messages to investors and to the world and to Europe, not his, he doesn't think he should seriously sit down and discuss the Croatian government's responsibility for the 4 years of decline in the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Four years of government of Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92030	Representative Linic. As President of the Croatian Parliament, which I represent the Croatian Parliament as a representative body of citizens and a legislative body, I should say that when the Republic of Croatia received a positive opinion on entering the European Union and was accepted as a candidate for membership in the European Union as a mature democratic country with high standards of democracy, human and minority rights and market economy. Therefore, Croatia's reputation in the world is not how you try to show it here, that it is a country you should be ashamed of because Croatia has achieved such results in these 3.4 years that in Europe it is among a respectable and respected country. Correction of the incorrect quote, i.e. the replica, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92031	A fellow Linic, answer to the question why it is not possible to talk about the vote of non-trust to the Croatian government, could be found in a government statement signed by Mr Ivo Sanader in a sentence that reads: "It is absurd to seek the political responsibility of the Croatian Democratic Community government for what it really did in the past term.". We seem to have lived in false belief that it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia that represents the interests of all its citizens, not the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community. It seems, given that ministers are members of the same party that the membership card amnesties them from all possible responsibilities, so it is possible to buy council members and change the will of citizens, to be on supervisory committees... They're managing. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92032	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92033	I agree with my colleague, who talks about the Croatian government's document, a document by the Croatian government, where Prime Minister Ivo Sanader sends a message on how much he thinks it is necessary to discuss seriously the responsibility of the government and government members to fight corruption. That is exactly the answer written like that, I will also use the esteemed words of the esteemed Mr. Hebrang, who speaks in writing insufficiently, in writing, so that I will try to define the way of the text that you have just quoted. But that shows what I keep saying. Mr Ivo Sanader has not admitted for 4 years that there is corruption in Croatia. He did not recognise the evaluations of the international institutions and of the European Commission. He didn't admit them. He didn't want to see the fact that he simply fell year after year during the reign of Eve Sanader. That's the facts. This is what ruins the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Because the government under the leadership of Ivo Sanader did not want to organise itself in the fight against bribery and corruption for all four years of rule in this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92034	In accordance with Article 113(8), the minister may give a speech before the proposal's final speech, and then Minister Schuker will declare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92035	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to the first part of the speech of Honorary Representative Linic, I thought there would be no need for anything more to be said. Its democratic right to call or not call for responsibility. But his reviews of Prime Minister Sanader are simply ridiculous. Mr Linic and the ladies and gentlemen of the SDP, the workers of Victor Lenco, were given the opportunity to see how the statesman of European format behave this afternoon. This afternoon, we went to those workers that you sent into bankruptcy because of your internal-partisan accounts, and you left them and their families without existence. We found a model how it'll survive, how it will. And today, Victor Lenac of some 600 workers from three, four months ago works a thousand people. However, it is very interesting that a certain group of cooperatives working in Lenca today have filed some sort of lawsuit and the High Commercial Court has annulled bankruptcy. We said today with these workers clearly that the government would stand by them and that the government would stand by them, that we would encourage them to preserve that firm that you and your team wanted to sell to those who stole. 600 million state money ended up in Victor Lentz based on your party arrangements. From this Croatian Privatisation Fund, a decision was made at the end of the government's mandate to pay 15 million kuna for salaries in "Viktor Lenc" and it is not controversial. But the issue is something else. It's a disputed argument and it's been said that these money will be, that these money is in the Fund for Development and Employment. It was the end of the year and everyone knew who was making the decision at that time that there was no money. In the bankruptcy table "Viktora Lenca" are the claims of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. It just shouldn't have been done. I don't know if I should start my story from River Markets or Hvar. ... That's all the privatisation fund. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And gentlemen, the time has passed when you Croats dictated what they would say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92036	Don't encourage the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92037	Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92039	In Croatia. Always.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92040	Minister, go to the Parliament, no, leave contact with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92041	Here, dear friends, I'm sorry that the Croatian viewers don't see this, this is an example of why gentlemen are nervous. They're nervous because this government has created preconditions. Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92042	Minister, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92043	If I'm not mistaken, Hvar was the subject of the privatisation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. On the way from the Croatian Privatisation Fund to Mark's square some strange figures have changed so that someone else can send the owner of "sun Hvar". The government made a decision, so he set up some kind of strange commission, and then it annulled the decision. Slavko Linic stepped down from the chairman of the Fund Management Board, but remained a member of the Fund Management Board, and Mr Jurcic came to his post. No member of the Fund's Management Board then showed any political responsibility, and it has been proven that someone forged the papers. After all, you are based on it, here is my colleague, Pecek, if I am not mistaken, he was on that committee with Vidovic and Cacic. You have undoubtedly determined that some papers have been changed. There was no political responsibility. If she didn't need political responsibility then. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go. ... What do we want, Excelsior? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, everybody's calling for a state audit. Everyone's calling for a national audit report. The state audit found that the privatisation of Excelsiora was not quite clear. It's in the state audit report, and it can be read. But it is very interesting that when one of the most beautiful hotels in Croatia is sold to someone for a million marks of a hotel that is decorated and which can service its loan without a problem then it is a top business move. ... We want the River Bank, then? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We won't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. There's something. Well, I guess I can communicate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92044	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92045	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92046	Here you go. Please, gentlemen and ladies, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92047	But let's not be too long. It's very interesting that the fund in a year and a half in the last government didn't have a president. It's very interesting, and it's going to be interesting when you see what it was like to trade with the rights of the shares with which the work was paid. That's what I'm curious about. It was very interesting that this was happening on the Varazdin Stock Exchange and it will be very interesting what counterpart Bošnjaković said "Pik" Vrbovec said. The Croatian Privatisation Fund appointed management, gave them 80,000 dollars a month's salary, today the administration is in jail for 17 million kuna embezzlement. "Pick" Vrbovec ended up in bankruptcy. Is that why there's political responsibility? So, ladies and gentlemen, we can say whatever we want, but I will never say for my country that I am ashamed and that my reputation has fallen. It's simply not true for my colleague Linic, and whoever's telling you that is not true. Croatia would not have a credit rating and status today if this were true. Unfortunately, at the end of your term with the falsified reports you've been sending. Some of us were embarrassed to go to defend those reports. But let's not be surprised why we have these assessments of individual institutions, however, so that this doesn't turn out to be all the expensive SDP colleagues say the Institute of Economics has done one study on whether Croatia has a reason for optimism, so some flat-rate evaluations and a certain methodology try to compare it, and you will see that Croatia has a very good reason for optimism, and please give us peace to deal with bribery and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92048	A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Nenad Stazic. ... I'm not a tentacle. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92049	It is incorrect for the ministers that this particular government is showing political responsibility today and just like Victor Lance. If the last government hadn't saved Lenac, you wouldn't have anything to save today, and jobs wouldn't have been there. That would have been a long time ago. It is incorrect that this government is showing political responsibility because of this whole speech today. You're talking about "Lance" five years ago, about... These are the topics that were dealt with last political season. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a total demode today. Here you are invited to talk about your role as a member of the HFP Management Board, one word you did not say. You know why? Because you have nothing to say. You have nothing to say for yourself. You have shown your behaviour in HFP complete irresponsibility, and today here in front of the Parliament and in front of the Croatian public you do not want to accept that responsibility again. The only thing that could save you from resigning is your resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92050	Dear Representative Slavko Linic, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92051	It is an incorrect statement by Mr. Minister that the state audit report for Excelsior is talking about irregular privatisation. The privatisation of Excelsior has been reviewed since the review, please read it and you will see that the minister is telling the truth. Not false, but false. And I would also like to say very clearly that the board of directors at Pika has embezzled the money, but because these vice presidents and this Supervisory Board have not controlled or replaced it and they are who they are. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The embezzlement was committed in your term of office during your supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92052	Order! Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92053	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! It's incorrect that the "Suny Hvar" affair had some strange commission and there was nothing behind it. The president of that strange committee was me who found that no good decision was made in the fund. After you probably know the members of the Trust Management Board have resigned and "Sunčani Hvar" has not been sold to the Slovenians, and one reason is that behind the buyer was hiding and the capital of "Ljubljanska Banka" which is due to Croatian savings. So there's been a lot of things going on. The wrong decision has been corrected, members of the Supervisory Board have resigned. We've established here at least that's how we assume that the fund ended up with several hundred, thousands of euros in bribes, but nothing happened. Nothing happened now, you know. It would be good if something had happened this time. Last time maybe not enough but something happened. Nothing this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92054	The final speech of the promoter is a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92055	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm glad to see that my colleague, so Mr. Shucker, does not give up on his class, turns the saw into a box and changes the subject. However, in the end, no matter what he changed the subject, he finally gave a rather good and interesting "clagworth". He says, leave us alone to deal with bribery and corruption or fight bribery and corruption. This is the topic of today's debate. We let you go, you personally and your colleagues sitting here we let you be on the Management Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund to deal with bribery and corruption, so it is under your watch, under your board of directors just discovered bribery and corruption and robbery. That's why we're here today. So, because you didn't, you weren't there. The BOOK did it, and you were there the board of directors who made it possible for that to happen. My colleagues and colleagues! We launched this debate because we felt that there was a reasonable doubt that ministers in the Croatian Privatisation Fund were not responsible for their work and that they enabled robbery and corruption in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We also considered it obvious, of course, that the Constitution is exactly the place where the government between the two elections lays accounts and has to account and it is the Parliament's task to call the government to account when it considers it not working well or not to work responsibly. Now, after this whole day's debate, we no longer have doubts that the ministers in the board of directors were not responsible for their work and thus made it possible for corruption, and now we are confident. Their statements, repeated claims that they had no idea what was going on there, proved again in their statements that the board of directors had failed to carry out its tasks prescribed by the law to supervise, had insight into the decisions being made in the fund, that the board of directors had failed to carry out its tasks prescribed by the Statute of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, that the Management Board had not ensured that the Croatian Privatisation Fund had fulfilled its commitments to this Chamber here, proved to be a ghastly silent silence that the Management Board had not informed the Government of the financial operations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, as its members themselves claimed to have known nothing about the thefts and corruption now in prison of people who were appointed by the same board of directors. It has therefore been shown that the board of directors did not protect the interests of Croatian citizens by managing the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Neither of which this board of directors considers that the ministers in this government believe that none of this was done by what I have stated here, nor did they know anything about why they had a legal obligation to know that none of these were responsible. The prime minister comes to the Parliament and supports these ministers, and he really argues that no matter what they did not know, which they did not, as one of the members of the board of directors of the Board of Directors of Ministers, are involved with bribery and corruption, but they were sitting on the board while their deputies took the money, they are not responsible. So the government takes responsibility for it and the ministers defend themselves by ignorance. This I think may be the first case ever in the history of parliamentaryism that ministers come to Parliament and defend themselves by ignorance. The truth of colleagues and colleagues is not a statistical fact. An honest man can be right against as many masses as you want on the other side. Therefore, it is obvious that we did not launch this debate in Parliament because we thought we could outvote HDZ and its coalition partners. Because if we could, we wouldn't have the HDZ government, we'd have ours. Therefore, we launched this debate in order to establish the responsibility of government members in the Croatian Privatisation Fund in which they were in charge of managing so that there was no crime, and it proved that they did not manage it. What's the result of this debate? He is, however, the results of this debate are much wider than what we assumed would be established here. And more interesting because I think that most of the Croatian public have already in some way concluded it themselves, but it is the obligation of this Parliament to put it on its agenda. So first score. The first result is that for the first time this Parliament or at least one part of it has shown its strength to demand the responsibility of a government for thieving in the privatisation that is taking place under its administration and under its board of directors. The second result of this debate is that it is white that this government, HDZ and its coalition partners are in a position not to accept responsibility for corruption under their rule at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I find that once again, it has become white here that responsibility for the unfulfilled work that has caused the damage is not accepted. People simply will not accept that they are responsible for their bad and not doing their job. And finally the third result of this debate that has shown itself is something that we have almost forgotten, which is that HDZ is identifying its party and state. HDZ and HDZ's government and counterpart Pasecki who accepts responsibility only to their party. We haven't heard that in a long time, but it also explains this unwillingness to accept political responsibility and this sense of power of power. These objectives, regardless of all the revenges and all the objections that flew through this House today, are a turning point in the conduct of this House as long as it has been tried today, the issue of political responsibility and responsibility for its work as members of the Government has been put on the agenda for the first time in this House. And as for the passion of power, let me finish with the words of one man who knew more about it than you and much more than all of us. The Almighty is in itself an evil and dangerous thing. There is no power on earth that is in itself so worthy of respect or has some sacred right to allow it to act without control and government without obstacles. ... My colleague Babić Petricevic has nothing to do with the faith, it's Alexis Detokville. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92056	Democracy in America, yes. Correction of the incorrect quote Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92057	Mr. President-in-Office, Commissioner Pusic told the ministers, we let you be on the board of directors. Imagine we let you go! No, you did not let anyone go and it is time to say that you cannot and that you are not a person or party that determines who is what in Croatian society. For months and years you have been sitting in this bench reading a book, ignoring constructive discussions and ignoring the work of the Croatian Parliament. Now that you've come to replace the Croatian government, you've been trying to replace HDZ for 14 years. You started replacing Franjo Tudjman, so you failed. You can recommend that to someone at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92058	Thank you. Second correction and final, respected representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92059	So I would correct the incorrect assumption that ministers defend themselves by ignorance. It's just not true, but ministers just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92060	Please, let's get this over with. I'd like to ask my competent SDP colleagues to allow us to speak, too. So the ministers simply don't understand what is a legal state and what are the competences of individual state bodies. And although she teaches us about everything with the tall Mrs. Pusic, she obviously does not understand what the rule of law is or understands, but she fears that many of her colleagues will end up similar to the vice presidents of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so she tries to protect them with this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92063	Jen Adam...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92064	Stay calm now. Please don't hear anything, be a little more patient.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92065	Jeane Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel – v, Zdenko Antešić – za, Ingrid Antičević Marinović – za, Željko Antunović, Franjo Arapović – v, Mato Arlović – za, Zdenka Babić-Petičević – v, Štepan Bačić – v, Anto Bagarić v, Marija Bajt – v, Ivo Banac - v, Mirjana Brnac – v, Luko Bebić – v, Marijan Bekovac – v, Jure Bitunjac – v, Florijan Boras – v, Dražan Bošnaković - v, Ljubica Brdarić – Za, Mirjan Brnatić – v., Mražačač, Mražan Bukić – Anti-Krjakić – Anti-Zražak – Anti-Zražak – Mr, Perica Bok, Karm Buk – Kardić, Karko, Kard, Karm Khar – Mr, Mat, Mat, Mato-K, Mato-K, Mr Mako and Iko and Iko, Mr CKkt, Mir, Miraž v, Slavko Linić – za, Slavko Linić? Za, Ivan Lončar -, Šime Lučin – za, Marija Lugarić – za, Nevenka Majdenić – v, Nikola Mak – v, Jakša Marasović – za, Ante Markov -, Krunoslav Markovović – v, Jagoda Martić – za, Jagoda Majska-Martinčević -, Frano Matušić – v, Milan Meden – v, Darko Milinović -, Neven Mimica – za, Marijan Mlinarić -, Petar Mlinarić – v, Zvonjko Nenadić - v, Željko Nenadić -, Milanka Opačić - za, Ivica Pančić - za, Bozidar Pank Žo Žo Poš – Zalić – Zrak – Zović – Željko Pović – Željko Pović – Željko Poš, Željko Poš, Željić – Zalić – Zalić – Zalić – Z. [[Intruder: Against said.]] Jene Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Željka Antunović, Ivo Banac, Mato Church, Miroslav Cacia, Ivan Chehok. Valte Drandić, Ivan Drnić, Anto Djapić, Mirko Filipović, Ratko Gajica, Mato Gavran, Branimir Glavas, William Herman, Nikola Ivanis, Ljubo Jurčić, Ivan Kolar, Miroslav Korenika. Stjepan Kozina -, Zlatko Kramarić -, Vladimir Kurečić -, Ljubica Lalic -, Željko Ledinski -, Ante Markov -, Ivica Pančić -, Bozidar Pankretic -, Tonino Picula -, Valter Poropat -, Ivana Posavec-Krivec -, Dragutin Pukleš -, Luka Roić -, Miroslav Rožić -, Zvonimir Sabati -, Vladimir Š išagić -, Davorko Vidović -. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92066	The government stands firm. We have a score. This is how 37 MPs and MPs voted for the proposal for a decision to distrust the government as a whole. The vote was 70, 6 were abstentions. I therefore confirm that the motion for a decision to show no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been rejected because the decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, Article 115(5). The Constitution. So at least 77 MPs. We still have a proposal for the conclusion of the Association of Representatives of the HSS to which the Club of Representatives of the HSS proposes that the Croatian Assembly draws a conclusion on the establishment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal and reference to the Croatian Assembly of the Decision to repeal the Croatian Privatisation Fund, Decisions on the establishment of the Agency for the Management of State Property in which the Department for the Management of State Property, the Department for Sale and Business Affairs of Privatisation, the Proposal for the Law on Corruption, the Proposal for a Law on Public Private Partnership, the withdrawal of all state officials from the Management and Supervisory Committees of Enterprises and Institutions and the suspension of any further privatisation until the proposed conclusion of the Croatian Assembly. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative, Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92067	I suggest that these proposals be voted by hand-lifting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92068	Thank you. Debate. Who is to these conclusions, these conclusions were by colleague Arlovic. Please. I'm putting it to the vote. We vote by raising our hands. Who is the conclusion of the HSS Representative Club for these proposals? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. 7 for, 82 against, 10 abstentions. So the proposal for a conclusion didn't go through. Let's go to the next item of the agenda - - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Research Commission for the determination of facts in connection with the public recognition of Mr. Ivica Kirin's interior minister about the fact that certain contents have arrived on the Internet portals by following the server trail, and its threats to SDP members – Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club I see the hand of the SDP Club of Representatives. Dear representative, president of the Milanka Opačić club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92070	So on behalf of the SDP club, I'm asking you to take a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92071	Very good. Ten minutes. The IDS is looking for the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92072	Mr. President, unlike the president of the SDP Club, we're asking you to let us go to bed and tomorrow morning to meet us here, somewhere early if we have to say 8:00, not 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92073	There's no rest while the renovation takes place. Ten minutes off. We're continuing the session! SDP deputy president Mato Arlovic's club, the respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92075	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We at the SDP Representatives' Club have asked for this break because we would like to warn the Parliament and our general public and draw their special attention, which is why investigating committees are established in accordance with the Law on Investigative Commissions. The investigation committees shall be established on grounds of injury or issues of public interest, and then the law itself in paragraph 2 states that the issue of public interest is particularly considered to be a achievement of the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as defined in Article 3, fundamental freedoms and human rights and of the citizens of Chapter III. The Constitution, the legality of the work of state authorities and public services and legal persons and public rights and issues concerning public morality. I am the Constitution in Article 91. ... says the Croatian Parliament can set up investigative committees for every issue of public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are wondering if we are proposing to establish an investigative commission to determine a breach of public interest, what is the interest of this Parliament to hide this debate in front of the interest of our public, our citizens, in front of our media? And in this respect, it is quite clear that at this time we have no objection to the debate being conducted on this subject provided that the public is included in it through graphic, voiced and other media. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues! We would like to remind that it is a statement by Mr. Minister that is related to the monitoring of the server where he has not only shown the fact that he has received the data in this way but has also shown a threat to what will only be done when election campaigns take place. In fact, such public recognition by Minister Kirin and his threats were passed on by all media outlets, written and electric media, as well as numerous Internet portals, etc. By the way, it's okay to remind you of this chapter called by the Law on Investigation Commissions... The Constitution on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which, among other things, provides for the Constitution in Article 35: Everyone is guaranteed the respect and legal protection of his personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 36. The freedom and secrecy of correspondence of all other forms of municipalities is guaranteed and non-injurious. Only the law may lay down restrictions necessary to protect the security of the state or breach of criminal proceedings. And 38. Freedom of opinion and expression of thought is guaranteed. Freedom of expression of thought includes the particular freedom of the press and other means of communication, freedom of speech and public appearance and freedom of establishment of all public communications institutions. No censorship. Journalists have the right to freedom of reporting and access to information. The right to rectification shall be guaranteed to anyone who has been injured by the Constitutional Law. Therefore, there is no doubt that it is the Constitution of guaranteed rights and, accordingly, in accordance with Article 2(2). The law on investigating committees is a matter of public interest or of public interest. And we ask that our public or our citizens, or even more precisely, as the Constitution tells the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, allow them to exercise their right to control the institutions or authorities as sovereignly in the particular case of the Minister, by exercising their right to the public, in fact to determine whether, among other things, the minister violated the fundamental Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms not only of the Social Democratic Party, but also of all other citizens, because he could not and received information about us but also of other but illegal means, in his own recognition and the opposite of the Constitution of our country. That's why we're asking this debate to be postponed tonight for tomorrow morning and to open it up to the public tomorrow and conduct this debate. You know, if you're running away from the public and only such an escape shows how much you care about responsibility to the holder of sovereignty in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92076	Thank you. Gentlemen, I have announced that today will be debated and this item of the agenda and there have been all, calculated that it will take a long time, and this will take a long time. The public's work is guaranteed. The media are here, who want to follow her. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92077	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mr. Minister! Kola Arlovic described the legal situation and the public interest that was injured by the interior minister's statements. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior who has an obligation in his work to protect lives, personal security, property, prevention and detection of criminal offences and the finding and capture of perpetrators of criminal offences, their persecution, etc. The minister is concerned about the legal and timely enforcement of laws and common interests in the Republic of Croatia. The minister, which Mr Kirin was involved in on 24 May 2007, attending NATO's civilian exercise in Zadar, accused members of standing behind published videos posted on YouTube's website making fun of him and making a direct threat to all members of the SDP. On that occasion, the minister said, "Jubito" was a symptom to me at first because I thought it was done by young alternatives and rebels, and then I went through the server, and then we learned through the server that it was placed by our political opponents from the SDP, to make sure that it was nothing that we would bring out in our campaign. The SDP club in the Croatian Parliament at the start of the assembly session on Friday (May 25th) asked Minister Kirin to come to the assembly, explaining his statements, but such a possibility was removed by the vice president of the parliament. Faced with a protest by the SDP for its recognition that a trail of computer servers and its open threats to members of the strongest opposition party, but also by justifying the public in particular by many visitors to the web portal, Minister Kirin denied his statements, accused reporters of the whole story, and said: "I did not say it at all, it was said by one of the journalists who stood where we spoke informally," Kirin said in Virovitica. However, it turned out that the Minister of Defiance was only an attempt, not a real one, because the journalists of the Morning List have disproved the deficit. For the whole case, there is a huge public interest and each of the films on Minister Kirin, which were posted on this portal, looked at an average of 150 to 200 thousand visitors with countless comments. Of course, if someone in Croatia had time and patience for this popularity, he would have collected a huge number of these statements and could have made a book of hard-to-determined content and genre, he would not have been able to determine from these unbulkable indifferences, all of which would have been considered so unmovable that Minister Kirin had not decided to change the board and threaten a foreigner, or publicly admit that he wanted to control the freest media. In such a situation, citizens could pray for God's protection of Croatia, and we are tasked with setting up a request for the establishment of an investigative committee. The interest of the Croatian public is great, and it must be satisfied, whether Minister Kirin has misused his position and his powers and thus has violated both the law and the public interest and an investigative commission should be established in order to determine this. The aim of the survey is to establish all the facts regarding the public recognition of Minister Kirin that the data on who posted the described content on YouTube came from following traces of computer servers. The Commission of Investigation should also determine what Minister Kirin has done so far to achieve his public expressed threat, expressed in the sentence "make sure that it is nothing that we will bring out to them in our campaign". This all indicates that it is either irresponsible or incompetent minister, and the question is why the President of the Croatian Government tolerates one in our court irresponsible, as well as the incompetent minister to whom he suggests that he is not engaged in public statements so as not to destroy his reputation and the reputation of the government and, at the same time, today, we have argued that he does not give information from his district, so he does not participate in such an important project as the Maestro project. This shows the seriousness of the situation, and it is really very important to establish the circumstances of Minister Kirin's abuse of the position and powers that are being placed here on his burden and to establish and inform the Croatian public through the investigative committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92078	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92079	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I will correct the inaccuracy of my colleague, Lek, where he claimed all of this points to the incompetence and indifference of Minister Ivica Kirin in his statements that he was either incompetent or inconclusive. It's not true at all. It's true that at the moment. The day before the Croatian government was held right in Virovitica from which Minister Kirin, SDP came in association with journalists who presented his informal conversation wanted to overshadow all government decisions that took place in Virovitica for the end of Slavonia and Podravina and that was a strict goal, and it was finally clearly seen in the presentation and the first statements of Mrs. Opačić Milanka, that it was clearly excited even recently admitted that they had actually served these presentations on this internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92080	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92081	Dear Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The story of Minister Kirin has its own comic dimension, its tragic dimension, and tonight it has just received its own fascinating dimension. To open a debate on the proposal to establish a parliamentary investigative commission that should examine reasonable doubts that one of the Croatian government's ministers, and this is exactly the minister of the interior, violated his powers and threatened human rights and freedoms, to open the debate at 23 hours and 40 minutes is more than "fassical". President of the Parliament that it can happen to anyone at all is unusually strange. This House will be sitting until July 13th. And there's an interest Mr. President, if you could meet your obligation and allow the representative to speak without throwing your colleagues off the bench. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92082	Very, very much so. I'd love to. Please don't throw it away, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92083	So to open that debate at 23 hours and 40 minutes is something inconceivable. But that shows that this topic is also for you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, when you insist that this debate be held tonight, tonight and tonight, and to this entire government and the parliamentary majority very uncomfortable. You don't want to discuss it tomorrow so the public can watch it so they know what kind of minister he has. You want to hide it under the carpet. It's completely understandable to me because there's really something to hide under the carpet. I don't want to talk about Kirin's comical side of the story. We're not looking for an investigative commission because of that comical side. It includes all those countless statements by Minister Kirina, which he has been enjoying the Croatian public for months. He is an inexhaustible source of joy for all visitors of the portal. They say police are doing some reconnaissances and suspicions, that video placement has political advances, that police are currently illegally closing illegal crossings and so on. This is what the nation rejoices, rejoices, laughs, these films are growing every day, but it is not the subject of establishing an investigative commission. That's the HDZ problem. Why he'd set Kirin up as minister. It remains a secret to us, but we agree that it remains a secret. It's a matter of government. If they don't have anyone else and nobody better for the Home Secretary, then let it be Kirin. We don't mind. What a minister like that and a government, as you can. We're interested here in the tragic part of Kirin's story. That's his statement that he caused by nothing, by anyone completely... On May 24th. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the statement says, "I'm into it with "youtube" or else it was nice at first because I thought it was made by young alternatives and rebels and then we found out through the server that it was placed by our political opponents from the SDP. Make sure it's nothing we'll bring out in our campaign. I'm not mad at them, but I don't like doing it for political purposes. Some of the guys did it, who did it themselves, but it can also be determined by following up on traces of computer servers. At that time, Minister Kirin de facto admitted to the press the committing of a criminal offence described in Article 223. Criminal law as a violation of secrecy, integrity and availability of computer data, programs and systems. We, however, are not looking for the establishment of an investigative commission to establish the possible criminal responsibility of Minister Kirin for his confession, not our suspicions, but his confessions that he committed a crime. It's not a matter of Parliament and it's not, it can't be a matter of the investigative commission. This should be done by the State's Attorney's Office, which should open investigations every time a voice reaches it about committing a crime, especially when it reaches recognition. Especially if a minister admits it. And the Minister of the Interior. We don't know if the State's Attorney's office is conducting a certain investigation into this matter? That's probably what we don't know, and we don't need to know. He probably doesn't know that either, nor does Minister Kirin, as he didn't even know about the HFP investigation. Like he doesn't know anything at all. But that's not why we're looking for an investigative commission. We're looking for the establishment of an investigative committee because the minister who first tried to deny all of this, please, and he said, "I didn't say it at all. That's what he said." Watch out for "one of the reporters. It was said by one of the journalists who stood where we spoke informally." This failed denial and attempt to deny it, in fact an attempt to get rid of responsibility because, as we see in the debate on the previous point, this government has been vaccinated with responsibility. She has no idea what responsibility is supposed to mean? What is political responsibility? And the minister to get out of responsibility he's telling the truth. He says, he puts the matter on the press, but Jutarnji List journalist Nikolina Radic, one of the three journalists before whom the minister told him that all his statements were conveyed absolutely faithfully. By trying to extract it, it falls into the water. This, this minister's statement has caused, this public recognition has caused a heated reaction to the public. It was expected and could be described as infidelity, surprise, shock, anxiety by the fact that the interior minister publicly acknowledges control of the servers of one of the world's freest media. This has caused numerous and bitter reactions. Thousands of Internet users leave their comments daily on various portals, realizing the danger of jeopardizing the free and uncontrolled use of the Internet. People simply fear that the minister will, by his illegal act, come to their addresses completely against the law. Their Internet address will also come up with data on who those commenting ministers of these verbally likable statements are. They fear that they will actually be controlled by the police, they fear that the entire state apparatus, the police for which the minister is responsible, will be imposed to limit their human rights and freedoms. Namely, it is clear that the server can be controlled. It's clear that the police can access the data from where something was set up on one of the portals. But for that, he must be granted court approval. If that wasn't possible. And listen, the police of the world wouldn't catch and break the entire paedophiles chains, catch and develop the entire paedophiles by coming up with information about the Internet user, the one who opened an address. And so we can't get to who put something on a particular address. This is certainly possible, and our police may do so. And that's why this statement is dangerous. She's dangerous. She seriously doubts the freedom of the citizens. Look, what's the investigation committee supposed to determine? And it would have to determine if there was such approval by an authorised Supreme Court judge that would allow the monitoring of computer servers. Is there a request from an investigative judge if there is no approval from the Supreme Judge because it may also be required by an investigative judge? If there is such a request, and for what crime. 'Cause look, if you went to control the SDP server then there had to be some kind of suspicion of committing a crime. Is that what the investigative judge asked for, and did the Supreme Court judge approve? It is necessary to establish whether Minister Kirin or any other person has made an official request to one of the Croatian Internet providers for the delivery of information on users of the mentioned address and, if so, who has and when it has approved the request. And since this is about Google, which owns YouTube services, the requirement to give it an insight into the addresses of the computer from which the video was posted should be sent to the official via the SDA police. The investigation committee should therefore determine whether it is directed and who has approved it and when it is approved. If none of this is done then Minister Kirin is in big trouble. Then he admitted to doing something illegal. But be careful, maybe it doesn't even matter. Did the minister order monitoring the Internet portal server, or did he just say he would do it or did it? With his statement, whether he really did it or just said that he had objectively brought unrest and uncertainty among all Internet users. And the fear of whether accessing the Internet will come under the grip of the repressive apparatus that Kirin is headed for. It's exactly the same. As if Kirin had said that information about what pre-election campaigns of certain parties would look like had come from opening the mail of their parliamentary deputies. It's exactly the same. Once, then, he came to some knowledge of an illegal activity. The public interest has been established here. Because if it hadn't been established it couldn't have been included in the agenda. There's a public interest in this. The investigation committee should be established to establish this. And the possible refusal to set up an investigative commission that is likely to occur because the debate is also being held at midnight to hide from the public tells us that the government and the ruling majority here are afraid of this investigative commission, that they are afraid of what it might come up with and that they want to hide it all from the public. It will not succeed in establishing this Commission of Investigation or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92084	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92085	Dear Mr. President, Representative Srazic said Minister Kirin knows nothing at all. That's not true at all. Minister Kirin knows a lot, knows how to protect the citizens, knows how to protect the defense officers you've driven out into the street and then tour them in the big harbor, their tent where they camped. Minister Kirin knows, I say again, and protect the citizens and police defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92086	And respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92087	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the incorrect statement by fellow Stazic or other Stazic is as you wish, perhaps his friend is better suited, where he says that his statement has caused public fear, public unrest, and the uncertainty of those who serve the Internet. That's his statement I'd say, under quotes, "deposit" Comrade Stazic because you haven't proven any journalistic writings, as one. And the other thing, causing public fear, I haven't heard before, nobody's written me a single complaint on this, I haven't seen any thanks to God on the Internet, not a single fear at the forum, not at any writing that anyone's afraid, except you. I don't know why you're afraid or what you're afraid of. The truth maybe? There's only fear in you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92088	The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92089	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would say it would be really in the interest of the Croatian public to discuss the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee tomorrow morning. This would indeed be in the interest of the Croatian public, but it would not be in the interest of the SDP, and therefore I think you can really be happy that at midnight we are discussing the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee because the debate on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative fact-finding committee on the public recognition of Interior Minister Ivica Kirina is nothing more than an empty, not exaggerating political pamphlet. You may be offended, but I'd say next. The debate on this topic, dear gentlemen, deeply affects the technical aspects of the Internet's functioning, the functioning of computer networks, in many other technical aspects. All of this is ignored, ignored, and discussed some abstract political responsibility, not understanding the essence of problems and restrictions that even the defence minister, or interior minister, has, any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, such discussions, such a character simply disqualify the Croatian public political scene, because without understanding the essence, without consulting the profession and participation of experts in all of this is not in the interest of the Croatian public and therefore I think that you made a terrible mistake when you launched a decision on the establishment of the Investigative Commission in the way it stands in this material. All those who know, and should know when to sign such a document that only the owner of youTube Google service can give an IP address to whoever planted the video clip with this document. Only Google and no one else, and dear gentlemen, I have consulted at least ten experts today and from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computing and Carnet, etc. and they all agreed, unusually, unacceptablely because it is affecting the inadmissible forms of behaviour of international relations. It's Chuck. ... Please, allow me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Even China asked Google to make some changes and publish some data, which was rejected. So, and that he wanted Minister Kirin in no way could get to the IP address of whoever planted that video, and that's you. And please, and you had to know that, and we can't discuss what the minister said here, and you're not sure what he said is possible. You're discussing one of Mr. Kirin's jokes and it's your fault. Gentlemen dear, I said next. Minister Kirin and if he wanted to, he couldn't get to the IP address. So there are technical constraints, and you ignore it, you ignore it, and you discuss something that has no basis or foundation. You're simply grasping a joke from Minister Kirina who said you can be determined by following traces of computer servers, you can be, but you need to know in which way. Only Google can give you an IP address, and that request can't be made by Minister Kirin, nor has he got a chance to get that information. But it didn't bother you to say Minister Kirin has admitted that a trace of the computer servers has been traced. He couldn't do it if he wanted to do it and couldn't do it. However, you found it interesting to entertain the Croatian public and, as you say in this document, a public reaction was expected. Unbelief, surprise, shock and anxiety by the fact that the interior minister publicly acknowledges control of the servers of one of the freest media in the world. I said again that he wanted it he couldn't do it and you had to know it. As you said, this has caused many and bitter reactions, so by now over a thousand Internet users have left their comments on various portals, realizing the danger of jeopardizing the free and uncontrolled use of the Internet. This impressive number, as you say, is growing from day to day. Only a small part of the public who upset the possibility of abuse of the interior minister and reuse of that rhetoric that was once well known, the use of parts of the repressive apparatus for political purposes no less for a single joke by Mr. Kirin, and you had to know that he had and wanted not to do so. Citizens fear as you say that not only the police, but the entire intelligence community has been abused against citizens, political parties, independent media, etc. Just because they're not members of the HDZ. And what's that? It's politics. It is kind of a debate on the Croatian public political scene behind which is not what needs to stand responsible and understand what you are talking about. And I said that the debate on these issues wanted you to admit it or not deeply affecting the technical aspects of Internet and computer networks. Dear gentlemen, the Investigative Commission that, but not the Investigative Commission of People who know almost nothing of it, they don't want to know, they marginalize it, but they arbitration and determine the political views of Croatian citizens, reminding them of those times as you say the use of a repressive apparatus for political purposes, and there is no such thing here. And for this reason, such proposals and initiatives are part of the responsibility, responsibilities in this case, not Minister Kirin, but the responsibilities of those who, in this way, formulate these requirements without justification and without justification, alert the Croatian public and Croatian media. Dear gentlemen, as you say, there are goals that require the foundation of an investigative commission. What are these goals? Is there the approval of an authorised judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that would allow a trace of the computer servers? There is no authorisation because there is no request. Is there a request from an investigative judge to track down a trace of the computer servers? And if there is, when is such a request set? It doesn't exist. Is Minister Kirin or did another person refer to Google, the owner of YouTube services such a request? Well, gentlemen, that would be an international scandal. That's what everyone would know about. But that's what you need to know. It's a responsibility. Did Minister Kirin or any other person make an official request to any of the Croatian Internet providers? There isn't that either. The question is, what is the purpose of your investigation committee? As usual, and this was seen from these discussions of disturbing the Croatian public, accusing the HDZ, accusing the HDZ even without the necessary responsibility because the time when this indictment of the HDZ becomes an accusation of the Croatian State then I think it is very dangerous and that it is not in anyone's interest. Especially not in the interest of the Croatian Parliament. I'll say it eventually. The minister that he wanted couldn't get to I.P. The addresses you speak of and claim that Minister Kirin has been stalking the SDP. It's not there and it's not true. And you would like and you can't, you can't just prove that what's impossible is possible and so ask people who know, ask the profession and don't talk about things you don't understand or know anything about. And I'll do it again. The debate on these issues is deeply affecting technical expertise. So you should know that when you set up such a proposal and such an initiative. It is nothing other than what I said at the beginning of a political irresponsibility, and therefore the HDZ Club will definitely reject this proposal. But surely after the vote, the question remains the responsibility of those who claimed that something was done that was technically almost impossible to do. You had to know that and the Croatian public must know that. Gentlemen! And that's why I think the only thing that makes sense is that you ask ten experts who understand what this is about. I've got ten of them today... You won't ask, but people who understand these things will. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I find it very simple. The HDZ club rejects the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative commission as well as another one in a series of empty political pamphlets. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92090	Five rectifications of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92091	Mr. President! In his speech, Kusic tried to convince us that he had repeated it several times, it was a simple joke by Minister Kirin or the Minister of the Interior. That's just not true. It's not a joke. This is about abuse of the interior minister's position and from that position threatened to one political party because in fact it alluds that he will probably impose this ministry at the head of these threats. And now say it's a joke and it's not enough to set up an investigative committee here in the Parliament. ... Yeah, that's why you walk on them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92092	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92093	That's why you've been walking on them for three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92094	A completely incorrect allegation was completely corrected by a colleague of Gordan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92095	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92096	It is an incorrect allegation by counterpart Cosic that there is a lack of understanding and ignorance from the SDP. I remind you that it wasn't the SDP that you were talking about, it was Minister Kirin. I quote, "Then we found out through the server that it was placed by our SDP political opponents." Therefore, it is not true that it is the misunderstanding and ignorance of us from the SDP. If it's about any ignorance or misunderstanding, then it's ignorance and misunderstanding just about Secretary Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92097	The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92098	Mr. President! I could correct a lot of allegations but even more findings and claims. Let's get first in line. The applicants are alarming and disturbing the public. No, I don't. The applicants simply quote the truth that Minister Kirin gave with their confession and ask that it be determined in the investigation committee, whether it is true or not, whether it is hurt or not? If it is true, then, besides political responsibility, there are elements for any criminal liability. If it's not true, then it misused its function and tried to exert pressure and intimidate not only the visitors of this server but also the political party. Second. He's a colleague, he's a second correction. Your colleague says you're going to reject this proposal. You won't throw it away. This is not an administrative procedure, this is a procedure in front of the Parliament and what you would like to act as executive authority, it is seen in every procedure and don't do it, learn that this is still a representative political body, not management.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92099	And a representative of Nenad Stazic, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92100	Comrade Cossic! You're saying the SDP is now accusing her and falsely accusing HDZ and Secretary Kirin of stalking our party. But we don't say that. That's what Minister Kirin claims. So what are you talking to us for? So ask him why he said it. We didn't even say that. The minister said nothing of it. Nothing caused it. Sam said he was stalking himself, I followed a trace of the server, and I found out it was hung by the SDP. Why did he say that? I really don't know that. But you're saying, the SDP would have to know, the public would have to, everyone would have to know just Minister Kirin wouldn't have to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92101	The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92102	Honorably, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Ministers. First of all, as far as this debate is concerned, she is indeed inappropriate, Mr. President, it would have been herb if we had discussed this in the morning or next week. But once again, I remember that in the previous session of the Parliament, we had a debate on the Energy Sector Reform Strategy, so the fate of HEP and INA, so two companies worth a billion euros each for themselves, at least started on 20 July at 22.30 p.m. There's a whole series of things a man can do on July 20th at 22:30. So most in the Parliament are changing, but practice remains unfortunately the same. So let me get back to our home topic. The club of HSP representatives would never object to the establishment of any investigative committee. All the investigative committees that anyone has proposed on either side of this House in the last few terms of the HSP Club have always supported it, so we will also support this for the sake of the democratic interest of the public. The second question is whether we have time to investigate this investigative committee as we all know the Parliament has its constitutional deadline until 17.7. and then continues behind 15.9. and should be working somewhere by the end of 10th and then the election is 25.11. so the campaign is at least a month. So does there have to be an investigative commission of time for that work? I'm afraid it's going to be one quite express investigative committee. What exactly is this about? It is a matter of responsibility for the spoken public, of responsibility for the spoken public, and that is something that the distinguished Mr. Home Secretary probably made clear to her, and that is that there is no off the record with the journalists, it is an old American rule and whatever you speak to journalists when you will then be written or published. Therefore, if you may have thought aloud about controlling these servers, you should have known that when it came to the press and was published. Everyone learns from mistakes, and someone needs more mistakes to understand that basic action. So the reason for your anger is YouTube or Jubito, as you called it. The reason for your anger is, in fact, viciously putting your statements on the Internet site YouTube. Make sure someone makes that video clip about how I torture or some other colleagues in the Parliament who torture it would certainly make me very angry. If someone made a video clip where they mocked the fat of fellow MPs or MPs or someone's whispering or someone's severed fingers, it would certainly make him angry. But it's actually a video clip that speaks of someone's clumsy statements, and it's not some Stef on the payroll, it's a minister and it's the domestic affairs of the Republic of Croatia. A minister whose tongue is faster than any other organ. So that's what I'm telling you, Mr. Minister, for the best of all. There are speakers, there are people who can say it better than you, don't get into it. And now we come to what is most frightening, not only Mr. Kirin on YouTube, but also Bandic appears on YouTube with that scene where Ljuština feeds out of his hand, Milanovic appeared, but Jandroković also appeared and we will have one at least 20 clips until the election where one of us here in the Assembly will scratch, someone will dig his nose, someone will say some bullshit in a public place. So we're slowly going into straddling the election campaign the same way that it's already happened in the US and Western Europe where it's more important some ridiculous video clip than what a man's been doing for years. So it's more important that Kirin said senseless than he did, but it's a risk to his job. It's a risk of public duty, it's a risk of publicly spoken words, and that's why you need to be very careful. We are therefore in a truly delicate situation, which is that there is indeed a statement by the ministers about or at least so claimed that he was investigating from which the Internet, from which the computer in Croatia was placed this unfortunate film on YouTube's server. It's only possible to do it in two ways. It's one thing for some hacker to hack into a YouTube server that's in the U.S. and you know that a large number of even those sites that have a Croatian prefix are actually located in the United States, let's say the HSP website because we've estimated it to be cheaper and safer. So a whole series of parties or associations have their own pages in the United States because it's safer there. Hacking that server means causing an international incident, and especially when it's done by, say, the MUP department for... let's say the first authority to do it. Another possibility is that domestic providers found out what traffic was from, from whose computers, whose IP address went to those servers. For one operation or another, either to hack, or to take down traffic, you need a warrant of course not only from the interior minister but also from the relevant investigative authorities, so from the state's attorney's office and of course you will forgive if it comes to national security. So, of course, it wasn't even close and we're actually in a situation where after this day, after this debate, we find ourselves in a position to vote for it, whether we're going to check what really happened, whether what the minister said or we're going to take for granted that the Home Secretary occasionally says something that we can't take seriously. ... Well, I'm trying to be awfully polite, although it's already late. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You will forgive me when we talk about the security of Internet traffic and hacking and about everything that falls into this, then you will forgive me for being far more pleased that an investigative commission has opened up for us that German multinational Deutsche Telecom is controlling the communications of our armed forces all together because in fact everything is still going on with optical cables that we set up at the time of the Homeland War but are now owned by HT pardon Deutsche Telecom. How is it possible that we have a 100% stake in this place owned by an Austrian Vip operator who is now slowly slipping away? How is it possible that Vaimax Telecom, which has 15 concessions for wireless telephony purchased from the United States and how it is possible that the largest network of cable TVs DCM Adria Cable bought Austrian Bevag. So, look, these are things that I would find more interesting about research when it comes to this complex of Internet security or telecommunications security issues. But we're where we are. So there's a lot of doubt. We will support the commission with deep speculation that this commission will learn anything dramatic new about it if nothing else we will be able to calm our American friends that nothing serious has happened. I hope it comes primarily to that result. That's it. That there's a minister here and there saying something we can't take seriously. He's either kidding or whatever. So we support the request to set up this investigative commission and the results will be heard in the autumn if God gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92103	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92104	The Honorable President, gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives, what we're doing here in the middle of the night, 22 minutes is really not humane. Instead of letting us sleep, we do the third shift, and the biggest problem is that no one will admit it to us. That's the problem. And who works in half a night and a half? You know, bakers and others, but come on. I think these questions right here on that side, which, third, fifth doesn't matter, are relevant. There is the approval of an authorised judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Are there any requests from an investigative judge to track down a trace of the computer servers? Did Minister Kirin or any other person make an official request to any of the Croatian Internet "provider" for the delivery of data on users mentioned "IP" address and if so and so on. But anyway, I think Minister Kira is a good man. I personally think Mr. Kira is an honest man. And maybe just because he's a good man and just because he's an honest man, maybe that M.O.P. isn't for him. And maybe sometimes it's better to cheer us up than to get rid of it. But the police need to be monitored, not abused. Police must sometimes turn to crime, not to deal with political parties. Because I guess that's what we'll all agree to be with us. Ten years ago, police in this country were more concerned with political parties, journalists, public workers than criminals. Fortunately, opportunities change in the country. And a nice title here is to quote him Gordan Malic from "Globus": "Croatia is finally dangerous to criminals", says "The "Maestro" action shows that the state security system has never been more dangerous for organised crime holders on the one hand and safer for citizens on the other. And that's really how it is if the state bodies, among other things, and the police are doing their job. I don't know myself often before, I don't know, 5.10.5, not 5, 7 or 10 years ago, including abuse of judicial bodies. Judges were being appointed, state lawyers provided they were clearly prepared to serve some current policy. Even some incidents took place in Piran Bay with operationalisation, I would say some of the leading people in Croatia and Slovenia. And that should be said in 2004, Mr. Kirin was not the head of the Croatian police. But why am I saying that? It's all dangerous. It's all scary. In a way, and that's not good, Minister Kirina gave up her own police force in the Maestro action. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor literally said on a show that the minister of action didn't know either. I spoke to Mr. Bank today, and I don't think that's quite the case, but let's just say that in this case I believe Mrs. Kosor's word. If that's the case, it's clearly inadmissible. The minister can't be just an officer who will be in charge of the salaries of thirty-two, three thousand police officers or those who work in that system, he can't just be responsible for paying off overtime, for providing people with gasoline so that they can travel with trucks, I don't know, cars and so on with these interceptors on the roads. He can't just determine when someone's going to take vacations, but he's also a person who has to take care of national security. If the minister shut himself out of that job, I'm talking about the action we talked about before this, then don't do your job. If the police somehow got rid of him under quotes, then I'm afraid to be honest of my own-will in this country. The autonomy of institutions, absolutely yes, but what is equally necessary. We need supervision so that tomorrow we will not face the consequences of the will of such or such of our institutions as, I don't know, 12 generals in the Croatian Army who, which President Mesic has resolved when they were trying to deal with politics clearly. In the case of this "Maestra" and the disclosure by my court of law of the largest of these converted robberies, somehow the entire government was shut down. It says or that the government is subscribing to share information so that the service cannot function or that the government is not to trust, so it is excluded, but then it says that the government does not rule, and if that is the case, it is more than dangerous. It's just as dangerous if someone without a Supreme Court order is searching the servers. It's just like if someone broke into someone's apartment. Someone said that before me. And it can't be harmless. It's like someone reading someone's mail, it doesn't matter now, electronic or written. And why do that at all, it's just not necessary. Especially this one is dangerous if it's done to political opponents. If that's the case, then it's a sign that this country is not free. This means that in this country it is trying to control that public speech. And then it's a sign and a lot of abuse. The truth is, Mr. Cosic was saying that Mr. Kirin couldn't even theoretically get to these IP addresses. And that's really true. But what Mr. Tadic said, there is responsibility for the spoken word. Here's a moment ago I learned or noticed a sentence from Mr. Tadic, and I know that it happens to all of us, once you tell a journalist I don't know a thing, and eventually it will be published and eventually it will be used. But it's the job of these people and they don't need anyone to blame them for it. On the other hand, until the election, I don't know, let's say five months of which clearly needs to be refused 2 months of this summer break. Nothing spectacular will happen until the election. I think the citizens have made up their minds today. And what they're going to do at the end of the 11th month is just, under quotes, write down the verdict to this or that political option, this or that party, this or that candidate. They're gonna give someone a vote, they're not gonna give someone else a vote, they're gonna take someone else's money, they're gonna do something like that now. However, after this and this commission, it is less likely to abuse institutions. Not in a way that someone could get an IP address because it's simply impossible. The Internet may be the hardest to control. But in this way, it will prevent institutions from being abused in favour of one or other political options. On the other hand, it's clear, the minister can't search the servers alone. The fundamental question is, if someone tried to do so, who could even get involved in it on his orders. And the question is, could the Croatian police have gotten involved in this at all? It's important that because of an irregular illegal operation, we should not fall, say, tomorrow's evidence in the case of actions like one "Maestra" or those that should be derived from the action we were talking about earlier. But once again, with all due respect to the clear autonomy of these institutions, it is necessary to monitor them, especially the police, intelligence services, and they cannot avoid, under the quotes "by the Constitution" some assumed fuses, whether it is the police minister, whether it is the Prime Minister, whether it is the president of the state, the President of the Parliament, the Government, etc. To conclude, if the HSP for the Investigation Commission is clear that the IDS for each Research Commission should clearly be. It's just another question of whether I can be here by 2:00 or 3:00 and wait for us to vote on it. Or maybe I'll go home. Not because I wouldn't vote for it, but I'm just here in this 7am assembly. And what would have been parallel, when it came to this request, should have been answered not only by us but by the general public, how that Slovenians might have, in front of, say, 2, 3, 4 until yesterday, supervised not only 20 leading Croatian officials from the prime minister to the minister, from State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or I don't know where, until yesterday, until the chief of police in Pula, Bujam, Umag, etc. It's probably whoever they needed at the time, and it's probably us in this house. That's what the Anti-intelligence Service should do. Which should be dealt with by the Croatian police, and what should be done today when we have established what is happening, which should also be done by Croatian diplomacy, i.e. the Government on the condition that some of these people have not negotiated under the allegations of "incident" in Piran Bay. All in all, I'm going to say once again, I think Mr. Kira is a good man, an honest man, but when it comes to this commission to avoid any future irregularities I think it's opportunistic to raise your hand for the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92105	Well, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Mato Arlovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92106	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I know it's late and I know we're tired and people can make a lapse. But I must correct an incorrect assumption, thereby showing my dissension and even protest. My colleague Cain has chosen to say Minister Kirin is a good and honest man and perhaps the MUP is not for him. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not enter the qualities and characteristics of Minister Kirina at all, nor whether he is honest or good.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92107	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92108	But I am correcting the fact that someone has chosen to say, express their suspicion that the entire M.O.P. isn't fair and that it's not good. I respond to this because there is a large, large number of people, employees, officials who in this segment have very much merit and need that part of protection by this Parliament as well. Thank you very much. And I don't think a colleague of Cain should just give such qualifications so easily and present such facts that have nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92109	But it's not a colleague Arlovic, I'm sorry, the correction, it's not. It's not, you are, so you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92110	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92111	He's one of the demijurgs of the Rules of Procedure. The creator, the demijurg, is a colleague, a creator in Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92112	My colleague Cain said that and I personally think, Mr. President, not only was it necessary to correct the incorrect allegations but it was also necessary to react from the President's desk. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92113	What would they be looking for now is another sentence for Agent Caine? So give him some freedom of speech, of speech. ... Well, you see, gentlemen and ladies, all of this comes down to one fact, to one dubious, questionable structure, if Minister Kirin said something, and it's based on the confidence that he said it, and he denied it, but then the newspaper says, then the applicants are invited to the credibility of the press. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you see yesterday he was, he opened the first forum on Southeastern European media where the president of the Republic who was a sponsor, said Mesic instead of media freedom vultureing. This is what the President of the Republic says. He says this, says the media will read about this only if someone came in strange clothes, if I wasn't weird or if the debate turned into a fight or even better into a physical argument, and under media freedoms and untouchable journalists the concept of sensational journalism that I would call "the President of the Republic" is increasingly being pushed. We're now building an entire structure of one, and we're having this debate over this, about a questionable and questionable sentence, the alleged Minister Kirin, who has also denied and kept it, we try that, that's how it would be. We now have the Club of Representatives of the HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. ... President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, I quote the President of the Republic. ... It is June 28, 2007. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92114	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister. It's a strange situation, we talk all the time here about what Mr. Kirin said if he meant what he said, did he do what he meant or did what he said, and Mr. Kirin sits here, why he doesn't tell us. This is actually a precedent. Namely, the Croatian People's Party club has always been for all the investigative committees, and the one about Cacic and the one about Prime Minister Sanader, but every time the people involved have spoken about what they think about it now. This time you don't do it. Maybe it's not an accident and maybe it's a good thing. Namely, if you think that in this beautiful morning, no one's looking at us this fine day, you're wrong. Now they're watching us, we got messages from bloggers watching us, watching us at least a few hundred people over the Internet, following what we have and we want to say. Maybe that's why Minister Kirin doesn't want to come here so there's no rage on the third, fourth, fifth, seventh, which is already in order. I'm convinced that Minister Kirin is fat, deeply sorry that he's come into conflict with that society. He just wanted to stop the Reuters. That's what some others tried to do, so it didn't work out. Minister Kirin tried the same thing. If he knew who the bloggers were, if he knew what people were sneaking around the forums and blogs on the Internet, he wouldn't have done it. I'd advise all my colleagues to go through these pages sometimes, you'll see that it's mostly about young people, although there are people like this who are my best chance, but. ... Of course so are young, but people with attitude. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] With the attitude you'll sometimes get dizzy from. Try to read what it says there. With an attitude that actually offers optimism. Who offers optimism and who says that these things in a very soon future will never happen again in theory. What's youTube and what's Jubito? It's the same thing, it just depends on who's using it and depends on what it's for. Minister Kirin found out through the server who's setting him up on Jubito. Even if it's true that he's setting up an SDP for him, then what? Is there any regulation that forbids it? Is there any regulation that can prevent any of us from going to a blog policy and writing I don't think Minister Kirin has dared to go to a pay phone, because he's afraid to look ridiculous again. There's no regulation and no one can do anything about it. Therefore, there is no need to look for IP addresses. They can be found out. There are several ways, though servers are not repairers, there is a small difference between the server and the server. You can press the service providers with certain methods known in the services, servers hard. But there are ways. You can push Google. One way is through diplomacy to ask Google to provide insight into the IP address, press the FBI, establish international contacts, but it's probably complicated and difficult for the FBI to get involved in this. Another way is to press one of our providers, the Croatian provider who transfers Google here on our ground. It can already be done with methods. And the third way is for security services to hack and hack into a system that can be done, but it's a little risky because probably the guys who do that have better hackers and will figure out who got into their system. They'll get into the security system. Don't even try it. Then there'll be a carnival. Why is that dangerous? It's not dangerous because the minister will follow our mail, say, electronically or follow who's answering what forum, who's on what blog? It's not dangerous, the minister can find out just to ask. No one needs to be investigated. You need to ask, are you upstairs? I did. Well, there's no reason for anyone to hide it. It's not a danger. The danger is because the minister thinks he needs to know what people think and what anyone around him thinks and that by his methods, the Home Secretary's methods should and can come up with that opinion and that it's his job. Now, that's not his job. It's not his job. It's his job to stop others from doing it eventually. And in the end, why is that funny? It's funny because all of this together can't be done by people. He can't make out of a country that has much worse democratic traditions, has no democratic traditions, has at all terrible traditions of the kind of North Korea, the type of Iran. They tried to ban some providers on the Internet. They didn't make it. No one's ever been able to do that. If someone managed to bring down communism with a smile and efficiency then the Internet did it. What happened? Well, people have seen...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92115	Excuse me, did the Internet bring down communism?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92116	And there behind the curtain, people saw there was a different world. No more lies. The Internet is where you can't lie and where bluffs like this don't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92117	At 00 and 39 minutes, it is time to report a ten-minute debate. But this is very interesting that the Internet has brought down communism. I've thought a little differently by now, but... Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92118	Mr. President! Mr Vuljanic said something about how late it is and how they're still watching us. I have no idea who might be watching us. Good night, Croatia is long gone and those who watch the last watch are no longer likely to see. And that's why I'm begging you, let me just have one more sentence. I beg you, I have a solution for all of this. And I'm asking the SDP Representatives' Club to accept my proposal. Here, let's make sure Kiro, you have a nice apology that you have no idea what the server says and we're done talking. And bye. It's no shame. I don't know what the server is either.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92119	Comrade Marasovic! So I know that if you don't know what the server is, you know what hardware is. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it would be Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92120	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Parliament! I've listened, I've collated all your exhibits and I can say that I've absorbed all your statements and statements, but also the particular request you've filed in which you're looking for the establishment of an investigative commission. I will not enter political debates even though I said that I believe that this Parliament and this state have more important problems than what many Internet experts have already confirmed is impossible but it was obviously not enough. I understand your position, too, because you're trying to make me a man who breaks his reputation not only in the ministry, in the government, but also in the state. But it's not for no reason because you know where I come from, you know well that I come from the fourth constituency and you know well about my successes on the political agenda. I'm also a worthy political opponent to you and I can't be mad at you for that because it's your right. But it's not your right to try all the time with me as a political person, the minister to bring in an institution, and that's the Ministry of the Interior, that I have abused in a way that I used institutions to make someone laugh at me and I portray YouTube as a crime. I said right away that it was nice for me to talk to reporters who weren't any official press conference, but we stopped by and I said I heard 'cause the guys themselves boasted that they were doing good watches. And that's all. And what the press transmitted, I don't want to comment on at all. I leave it to their conscience, I leave it to them all because in these statements and colleagues from other clubs, as well as fellow Cosic, it is simply impossible. They wouldn't even launch the research process first if they thought there was anything about it and in talking to them they said, yes, we called Internet experts and they said it was impossible. First, for the reason that only a court-ordered official with the presence of the State's Attorney's Office can question a server, may request the I.P. Address. And since the servers are in the United States, they would have to ask the U.S. court to give the order to the administrator to deliver the I.P. Address. And it's impossible to hide. But one more thing to warn when we're at the Internet and we're already dealing with knowledge and expertise you know very well that there are so-called today. The proxyservers through which people go out and then the last address of the proxyserver is recorded. So someone would send data to her if she had anything to do with it and in conversation with them they said, yes, we called Internet experts and they said it was impossible. First, for the reason that only a court-ordered official with the presence of the State's Attorney's Office can question a server, may request the I.P. Address. And since the servers are in the United States, they would have to ask the U.S. court to give the order to the administrator to deliver the I.P. Address. And it's impossible to hide. But one more thing to warn when we're at the Internet and we're already dealing with knowledge and expertise you know very well that there are so-called today. The proxyservers through which people go out and then the last address of the proxyserver is recorded. So that means that someone would deliver data on YouTube could have been over two, three, or n numbers, the enti number of proxiservers to YouTube, and every time on YouTube, they would have the last address of the proxiserver. And that means that we would have to ask each country for a warrant from an investigative judge according to the legislation in its home country that regulates the area. But I don't want to take you at this late hour, I just want to confirm one thing. I didn't even think of myself using my position to track someone or threaten someone. I mean, there's a young man standing here, the youngest minister in the government, and I've never thought of such things. Unfortunately, I paid for the tea of my directness and perhaps my naiveties and goodness because I trust everyone and in conversation with everyone, and we talk about everything when we talk about it. But we don't abuse each other. And I've paid for my tea here, and today I'm presenting to you exactly what I've already confirmed several times. I didn't abuse the service at any point, nor did it ever occur to me, nor would I do it. But I can also say as Minister of the Interior that I know that someone does it in my service regardless of who it is would be the first to sanction it and suggest it right here in front of you if it's either an official but if it's my employee, I would also report it to the competent institutions for violation of the laws. I'm just sad that I have to say it myself, as a man I have the right to do it, someone grabs his word while others say far more difficult words in society. But it's politics, and we have to be prepared for that. I here as a public figure once again welcome all those who work on YouTuba to my commercial. Keep them going because that's politics too. What's an advantage right now at this point and what I can say for myself is that I'm the first, where for the first time the political and political struggle has been transferred to the Internet and that's why so much is my popularity. I'm kind of more popular than I could have imagined, but that's the point of politics, too, and that's why I'm not mad at anyone. Dear ladies and gentlemen... Dear ladies and gentlemen, is there anything in your request that the Government or any other body decide that any members of any party are being informed collected by a repressive apparatus, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are always open, transparent, and we believe that political struggle can only be fought at the intended time and these are elections that will take place on 25.11.2007. Thanks again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92121	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to correct Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations that it's impossible to determine the IP address from which the clips were placed on YouTube. It's possible, and I'll only explain two ways. The first is by filtering traffic "provider"...... Comrade Cosic, calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Save your nerves, you'll need it. So the first way is by filtering the traffic of the provider. He's a complicated model, he's been looking for a long time. And the other way is, and you know that according to the law every "provider" at the request of the Intelligence Service has to allow access to the loop and that's another way to how it could have happened. [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92123	Do the promoters have any suggestions maybe? Do the promoters have any proposal of a procedural nature, a procedural nature? Then we'll continue the debate. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Individual debate, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92124	Short. Minister Kirin, this performance of yours here today was very nice to me. You seemed honest to me, you seemed open to me and human beings I was ready to believe what you just said here. You said one thing that if you as a minister found out that one of the M.O.P. employees abused what he was doing at the Ministry of the Interior and you went to control the server so that you could look for a sanction for him. That was nice to hear. You must understand that we are looking for the establishment of an investigative commission when such a thing is said by the minister that he worked. If I were you, I'd get the HDZ Representatives' Club to back this request. Because if you're really clean, if you really have nothing to hide, then in your interest, first of all, it would be the establishment of one of these investigative committees. We are discussing him today at this late hour with the clear intention of the President of the Parliament to hide this debate from the public. It's not good for you. That's where the President of Parliament didn't do you a favor. You see, this is how you performed tomorrow morning in front of the entire public, you'd have a chance to gain sympathy for the public. The President of the Parliament didn't allow you to do that. He hid you deep into the night. So I do, I can have sympathy for you. You, however, must understand responsibility for the spoken word as well as any member of the government. All of us in public affairs have that responsibility. We need to be aware of her. It's not always easy, it's not always simple. But it belongs with this job of ours. With your job as Home Secretary belongs and I dare say increased responsibility. Maybe bigger than Minister Cobankovic and some other minister. You run a resort that is extremely sensitive and, as you know, a resort that was misused by the year 2000. It was used to endanger human rights and freedoms. That time is not so far behind us. Just seven years. And you have to understand that people in this country are rightly, with full rights sensitive and in fear of doing it again. Well, this kind of awkward statement of yours is driven by such fear. I advise you to answer the word again and propose to the HDZ Representatives' Club to support the establishment of this investigative committee and thus to shorten this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92125	I am not hiding anything under my cover of the night this debate because you see in many European parliaments, I was recently also in the Polish Parliament and in some other debates are being held quite this late about half of the night, nothing unusual. In the Greek Parliament, then in French and Slovak and so on. So in this Croatian Parliament on various topics were also held in all these 16, 17 years, budget rebalancing, budgets, trust with the Government, ministers all very often these old veterans, such as Mate and I, who long remember how this was happening in this beautiful June morning. Well, it's nothing out of the ordinary. What's the rush? What's the rush? Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92126	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister and I will say as well as my colleague Stazic, that after your address to this House, I was impressed, the perception that you have performed quite honestly and that you have spoken frankly. I can come from that statement of yours and from the fact that some colleagues said that you were joking about the statement and I can sort of accept it, but there's something that's very important. You know, it's not important that we just convince ourselves that that's how it is, it's important to convince our public that it is. It is important to give the information from which it will be evident that there has been no threat to fundamental human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia and that there is no harm to the public interest as a result. It's about a ministry whose head you are, which is actually an apparatus when you force the government, and it's quite clear that the issue of public sensitivity is much greater than it is when it comes to another ministry when such statements are made, whether they're shown in a joke, in order to scare or be true about what they seem. I am again starting from the assumption that you have now spoken sincerely and in such a situation I consider not to be your interest, not to be of interest to this House but to be the interest of the Croatian public to form an investigative committee and that what you have now claimed in the investigation is determined, confirmed and that the public is informed, that the public knows that the ministries of our, that the government, that the Ministry of Force does not use and abuses the law which raises questions if you want not only human rights and freedom but even censorship of public media. Because I do not owe, I will personally vote to form an investigative commission to say that question to the lighting again in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and its public, in the interest of the protection of constitutionality and legality in this country. If exactly this is all you said there is no reason for this investigation committee not to finish the job much faster than the proposed deadline for which it is only proposed to carry out investigative activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92127	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here as this has already been pointed out according to the topic this debate takes place deep into the night, actually more with the content that is due to this topic, therefore the weather is very appropriate. This first part of which was a lot of talk about the server and what is so honest, I was inspired to say to the Minister, I would not look back on it for two reasons, not only is it likely that it is an unspeakable object that could have made possible abuse of the position but above all the unspeakable means. Well, then if you turn on a non-matched asset and object, then some major damage from all this could not even come out. However, this second part of the sentence, which is here now, Mr. Minister says, that is, even tonight, that is now in these small hours, and we have not heard that he has said and denied to say this part of the sentence "and they do not know what we are going to do in their campaign" but I have already defended Mr. President even quoting the President of the Republic. But here's the sentence for which now here's how a certain Mr. Minister is denying, it's causing a great deal of consideration. Imagine, they don't know what we're gonna do to them in the campaign. But by the way, if you're still and good, you can do whatever you want, nothing will happen to you, but if you do your job and ask awkward questions to the government, then you'll see what happens. Let it happen immediately and let it happen to anyone who needs to be done, and not because someone criticises you, or someone touches you and shakes hands with you. This is your position and all those who work on your orders in the portfolio on their own principal to work under the law, not because he likes or doesn't like it, whether someone pats him on the shoulder, with him is a friend or sharing with him the same political thinking and options. And I'm really here with my colleagues from the SDP, and we're not some kind of ominous and ominous opposition that's looking at and looking forward to something. No, believe me. And I trust you, maybe it's hard for you to understand because you measure with your elbow and we'll consider it. But here, I also bow to those who believe that here is when he briefly addressed the Parliament to all of us, Mr. Minister, that he was honest. I would also believe him, but here from the two police departments by the name of Mr. Minister, they're coming in, there's inspectors saying that you spoke to them on the phone with a very bile voice, find them something, find something. And I even believe that you didn't do it on your own initiative, because Mr. Prime Minister Sanader boasted two years ago that in several cases he issued a warrant to the police, they testified, so that's what he spoke publicly and it's no secret. When he was criticised, praise was silenced to issue warrants, although he boasted of the independence of the repressive apparatus and of the judiciary. But you see what's really happening in reality, instead of listening to citizens, it turns out that it really shows the will to control political warnings in an illegal way. And we don't mind that, but it's a great danger, especially since we have a very negative experience and not just from the recent past from the '90s to 2000s, but before. So when the repressive apparatus was often in the service against man, not primarily to be the main pillar and the support and dam attacks on the care of property, it attacks on his integrity. And is it really true that the police are dealing with what her original legal task is? Unfortunately, in recent years, heavy crime has grown in the overall mass of general crime, which is an unequivocal fact. If it weren't for the rarest of reckonings, so what were they once, that we could see as children only in the movie. Just recently in Zadar in broad daylight, or about six hours of child bathing at the pool. That hasn't happened before. Cars, no it's not, cars in Zadar fly more often than birds. Every once in a while, there's a car flying away. And always the unsub unknown. So here we give you support to discover, to capture such, not to intimidate political opponents, no matter who did it. It is not the time of an election campaign, or campaign for something to be seen. So it's not the job of the minister or the director of the police, and it's not for anyone to show up, it's for the people who are doing something against the law to not go, to go out with the video to the barduk, and not to bring something out in the open, I'm sorry. If this is really true what you said they'll see what we're gonna do in their campaign, forgive me. If that's true, most in the House probably don't give an opportunity to prove the truth or the untrueness of those claims. But here's all the blame now being placed on the media, and they're not always innocent, we all know that. But here's a chance to prove whether it's true or not. But in every normal state, to determine that it was said by the minister and by the police minister, the interior minister. Well, not only would that minister fly away, the entire government would fly away, and the minister would be really happy if they didn't crinkle it. Because he abused the position. So what we were saying about other ministers, and even about this earlier point, it's all about how heavy the amounts are, the heavy acts, that is, the crimes in question, it's all a cat's cough on this. Because everyone's rights are at risk here. And the rights of the innocent, not the rights of the guilty. Well, it's not normal for a righteous man to be afraid of his own country. And that those who broke the law feel safe. The truth is, I'm not gonna run away from it if those coalition authorities weren't afraid. And that's why we paid for the 2003 elections. But that's not gonna happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92129	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92130	Dearly beloved, yes, it's interesting that in 1 hour and 10 minutes, the atmosphere is more lively and awake than in some days, than in some days in the afternoon. But I think that we have a rather serious topic to discuss, although many are trying to make it not as serious or at least trying to show it as a banal. It seemed that Minister Kirina's appearance here in the assembly a few minutes ago, whether he liked it or not, was the irrefutable fact that the minister said: "I found it nice to start with Jubito because I thought it was done by young alternative and rebels. And then we found out through the server that it was placed by our political opponents from the SDP. Make sure it's nothing we'll bring out in our campaign.". Minister, you later tried to deny that statement. It's a failure. In the current move, you did not deny it, and counterpart Cosic said on behalf of the HDZ club that it was just another one of your jokes. It's not a joke to me, it's exactly that statement that blames me on why I support the proposal to establish an investigative commission. The reason for such a statement by the minister lies in the fact that on YouTube or I Jubito, by Minister Kirin, video clips were published with Minister Kirin in the main role, which achieved great success and ratings, and whatever the minister boasted... Clearly, Minister Kirin was unable to cope with this newly acquired fame or shame, depending on the angle of view. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] He threatens freedom of speech in Croatia, threatens opposition and threatens scary threats. Minister Kirin also allegedly knows, it also said who made these videos and placed them, and he even said that even journalists know it but that for some unknown reason they do not publish it. However, after the Ministerial attempt to deny it, it remained unclear whether Minister Kirin might have only tried to make himself important with his discovery or had indeed come to that discovery. But the joke aside by acknowledging the minister to follow the server and thus to get the data is not at least as banal sentences as those many other sentences that cheer hundreds of thousands of Internet users. That statement by Minister Kirin either lied or admitted that he had misused his position and authority. The public, especially the Internet public, is upset with the possibility of abuse of police and a repressive apparatus for political purposes. Some of us who spend a little more time on that Internet, some of us who handle these communication models know that very well. I'm sorry you don't know that. The idea that someone like Big Brother is following who's doing what, and that those who don't think the way the ruling set wants to try to shut up, I think it's time for the past century. And all these events show that in the 21st century and with the Internet, it's really not possible. Minister Kirin, judging by his own confession, not by our ignorance not only does he consider it scandalous but also threatens. But let's try to reverse logic and look at this from one side, maybe the other. Says one blogger that from the position of Hanse Kirina, but also HDZ in general, it would be logical for them to think that it is best for them to be placed by the SDP. The SDP is on the opposite side of the political spectrum from HDZ, we have a political rival for HDZ on a daily basis, and for Minister Kirina, it would really be best if someone from the SDP placed it. I guess in that case all of Kirin's jokes and jokes would be made smaller than they seem by looking at video clips. It's just like your next doubt. If you catch thieves stealing, for example, $6 million from Brodosplit, or, for example, publicly expose the situation of detour around the road in Zadar, is that information less valuable, less true, that is, are people involved in these dirty work fewer thieves just because they're being shown by the SDP in public? He says this blogger next, provided that the entire series of Kira proviro is not computer animation or that those aren't sentences drawn from contexts, and there seems to be a national consensus on the fact that it really was said by the minister and that it wasn't drawn from the context, the question is whether Ivica Kirin is then less incompetent just because these video clips were made by SDPs or by Minister Kirin actually tried to throw his own mud over the board on the other side, so that it shows that the other side looks the same. I think, Mr. Minister, the HDZ is easy with the SDP. I think Ministers that you know that too, and I think that's why you tried to threaten freedom of speech in Croatia, that you said what you said, and if what you said is true, if it didn't mean that you lied, it means in any case something wrong, you misused your powers, or maybe you weren't telling the truth out of fear, out of fear of one frightening truth that behind these clips is not SDP, but dissatisfied with the citizens of HDZ's authority. I think that's what the key problem is about why we need an investigative commission. I think that the commission should determine whether the minister has again only played very irresponsiblely verbally or really misused his powers. I think the Minister would be in your best interest to have that commission do its job as soon as possible. One way or another, I think that any minister, and least of all the interior ministers in the Croatian government, must not even think about such statements, may say them even less, and at least be allowed to carry out the controls of the server, whatever that means. To conclude somewhere, this statement by Minister Kirina, as well as the circumstances, requires a detailed investigation of who is and what he has actually spoken or done, because I do not think that we should play with freedom and with the certainty of the citizens, and at least with the freedom and security of the citizens, a minister of the interior is allowed to play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92131	Two corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92132	... Why don't you ask us who knows everything about the Internet or how much we know. [[Specially enabled.]] And as far as I know in the party systems, always the party president knew everything and knew the most, and your party president, we looked at the same portal, and he answered every question I had no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92133	Kresimir Cosic, the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92134	Well, here I think I'm correcting an incorrect quote. The Honorable representative said the minister is conducting server controls. That's completely incorrect. You accuse, insinuate, nothing is proven. Please, therefore, and based on these assumptions, you are accusing, declaring the HDZ responsible minister responsible, and that is part of a campaign that has no foundation whatsoever. I said before, ask people who know. It was just technically impossible to perform and these are facts. Take care of something that's still an objective fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92135	Miroslav Kundera in a joke describes a case where a young man, a young student, wrote a postcard to his friends on one of the summers where he looked a little ironically at some of the middle local party officials there. That postcard liked the police's hand. One of the first political investigations was carried out against him, he was kicked out of college, transferred, transferred there to Moravska in a mine, and so his life trip took a one-way trip to a joke. Isn't it a little cruel to ask for what some of you are looking for? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92136	Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief and all my exposure for just two, three minutes. Namely, the model of resolving the dispute as counterpart Marasovic proposed it we see failed. He spoke to Minister Kirina. I will therefore try to resolve this dispute by addressing my colleagues from the SDP. In fact, you colleagues forget that an hour and a half ago, we had a chance to see that this government had gained confidence. She got it based on what? Based on the fact that Minister Kalmeta, Minister Cobankovic, Minister Suker, Minister Polancec could not remember anything. Why are you asking other ministers for far more criteria? Why wouldn't they have the right to amnesia? I'm asking you nicely to withdraw your proposal, don't you see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been making jokes for the past four years?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92137	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92138	Thank you, Mr. President. Unlike my colleague Miljenko Doric, I believe after Mr. Minister's presentation that he really didn't know what the server was and I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-28-0.u92139	Final review on behalf of the applicant. Is there a proposal for a proposal, perhaps? Maybe when he thinks about it, maybe he'll find a suggestion right now. I mean, that's the proposal that would rule out voting tomorrow, actually today. I don't know, there seems to be some intention of breaking up today's session. Well, we will continue today at 10 o'clock so as to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, etc. We're on our way. At 13 o'clock is the vote on the debated agenda points. The proposal for a decision to set up the Research Commission to establish facts regarding the public recognition of Mr Ivica Kirin's Home Affairs Minister on whether or not some of the contents have come to the Internet portals by monitoring the server trail and its threats to SDP members on the proposal to set up the Research Commission. We vote, we vote on the previous question. Please, let's get on with it. I'm voting on a motion to set up an investigative committee. The result? 30 for, 1 abstention, 64 against the proposal not accepted.
