ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87920	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you, the proposal for a new Law on Infringements as one important, I dare say a procedural law together with the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which, in the area of criminal trial, should contribute to the swift and effective conduct of criminal proceedings before these courts. The conduct of the infringement procedure is now governed by the 2002 Law of Infringements, so it is the law of a newer date, in the application of only four years, and there is no doubt at that time when this law has been proposed and adopted to round up the reform of the criminal law in the Republic of Croatia as regards the harmonisation of the Republic of Croatia's system, compliance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the full regulation of the criminal law and the general part of the material criminal law and the infringement procedure. But this Law just shows that the path followed by good intentions doesn't always have to end well and that, especially when it comes to such laws, it needs more respect for the opinion of the profession and practice because that law was, and it may have already been a good signal adopted in the third reading, there were strong resistances because concessional conflicts were when it was proposed and the profession was already adopted, and it tried to remove these shortcomings of that law through later those changes and additions pointed to the weakness of some of the conceptal solutions that led to, in fact, a contrast, led to a significant slowdown and reduction of the efficiency of the procedure, is not a secret and this is repeatedly said to be one of the great... an outdated procedure is just a misdemeanor and it is a high criminal court as the sole court... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] where even 50% of the procedures are about to end, it is suspended because it has come out of date, then errors of normative nature and procedural solutions that were more like criminal proceedings, which is then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the question of the purpose of conducting a special infringement procedure which is necessary for these easier forms... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] conduct to enable a faster procedure and, of course, to impose appropriate penalties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this good cause and what we wanted to achieve with the Law of Infractions from... the year proved not to be enough in itself, to obtain the expected results in the area of criminal trial actually results and analyses show that the exact opposite effect has indeed been achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia joined the creation of a new law. The initial intention was actually once again to amend the Law on Infractions and to introduce those procedural institutes and mechanisms... To remove those institutes from criminal proceedings that actually delay the proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the work on making such changes has shown in fact that it is much more meaningful and quality to actually propose and prescribe a whole new law, so that in drawing up this new law it has been taken into account such an initiative by the High Court of Justice... The law, the government's conclusions of 25 November 2004 on the fight against the gray economy and other proposals that have proved useful in the drafting of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is proposed, that is, what are the objectives that are intended to achieve this new bill? This is to allow, first of all, the procedure to be conducted quickly and without delay, avoiding all unnecessary actions and costs and preventing any abuse of the rights belonging to parties and participants in the procedure, freeing the offence from the excessive takeover of any provisions of criminal proceedings which are not appropriate to the purpose and nature of the infringement procedure in accordance with the principle of economicity and proportionality and adherence to... the principles do not undermine it significantly but achieve the level of party rights in the infringement procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, it wants to, given that infringements are indeed minor to the rules of conduct, social norms of conduct and to relieve courts, but not now so that they would just be relieved rather than to allow the swift punishment of such behaviours on those bodies that need to be sanctioned. So one of the important newspapers of this criminal code is to decide on the guilt of the perpetrators of the offence without conduct of the proceedings, regardless of the type or severity of the offence, which is the issuing of a criminal order. True, the infringement order has already been introduced into the law in 2002, but it is now being carried out in view of the experience acquired during these four years by an important reform of this institute in such a way as to determine that the bodies, bodies of the state administration, such as the police and other bodies, can issue an infringement order regardless of the restrictions, i.e. at the level of the penalty prescribed for certain penalties, because until now the penalty could only be prescribed in that prescribed range of those penalties. In fact, analyses show that only a third of the misdemeanor orders were made to object, i.e. according to the legal remedy before the courts. It is also simplified for this reason to explain the infringement order, and what is now proposed is to introduce a completely new form of criminal order, that is to issue a mandatory criminal order, making all authorities mandatory before going with the indictment to the court to issue a mandatory violation order against the offender for minor infringements. Under this minor violation, the infringements prescribed by the decision of the unit of local and regional self-government for a violation prescribed by the law for which the fine itself is prescribed for a thousand kunas for a natural person, 5 thousand kuna for a craftsman and 10 thousand kuna for a legal person. Authorised bodies, therefore, may issue this mandatory infringement order by the authorities and if the Violation Act prescribes a fine greater than that amount, if... The punishment may be imposed on this prescribed sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the event of a complaint against such a mandatory criminal order, the Court of First Instance shall decide in such a offence, such a decision shall not be brought against such a decision, so legal protection shall be secured, legal protection shall be ensured through the Criminal Court, but the High Criminal Court shall be ordered to relieve and, in any event, reduce the risk of such offences, the infringements shall ultimately remain unsanitary because these infringements shall become obsolete. Keep going. The motivation of the collection of fines at the scene of the offence is also strengthened because the fine can be charged at the scene of the offence if it is a violation for which the fine is prescribed to a thousand kunas for the natural and responsible person, the legal person and of ten thousand kunas for the legal person. Those who pay will not be misrepresented in that case. It also changes significantly and... Philosophy of a misdemeanor procedure like we said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Often, a misdemeanor procedure is called a small criminal procedure, which is really unnecessary for these types of proceedings. Because then why... Infringement proceedings? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now the rule on the conduct of the main debate in the infringement proceedings is governed solely by this law and no longer the subsidiary application of the Criminal Procedure Act. And the important news is that a new type of misdemeanor is being introduced, and it's an emergency procedure. It can be held for violations where a fine of ten thousand kuna is prescribed for a natural person, 30 thousand kuna for a legal person and ten thousand kuna for a responsible person in a legal person, as well as for a case against a minor offender, arresters, defendants who are designated for detention, and defendants who do not have a permanent residence and stay in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a complaint against a mandatory offender... Incentives of the offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the infringement procedure is accelerated in these cases indeed still in, when we talk about the misdemeanors of those at the value of minor offences. And the original legal remedy is also a request for a direct review of the decision in a misdemeanor procedure, because in such cases, the High Court of Justice decided on the same thing, and then, in such cases, when dealing with this legal remedy, in fact, the High Court twice ruled on the same thing, which is not really necessary. Not only in the criminal proceedings, but in general in all judicial proceedings, one way to delay proceedings and prevent decision-making is the institution of the exclusion of judges. So this Law of Infringement, its proposal to decide on an exemption, is also changing in a way that actually reduces the possibility of abuse of this procedural institute. Because the disfellowshipping of the President of the Criminal Court decides, the exemption of the judge is decided by the President, and his exemption from the Deputy President of the Court, which actually shortens the procedure and significantly allows the infringement procedure to be completed significantly. There are also significant increases in sanctions, a general minimum of penalties that can be imposed, fines have been increased and prisons have been fined as well. The longest that's been up to 60 days now is now increasing to 90 days. Especially for violations that are a violation of domestic violence and other violations related to violence, serious environmental offences and drug abuse. Similarly, as regards procedural institutes, the Institute of Appeal is changing so that no longer a special appeal is allowed in those cases as a special complaint when the complainant can call on it in the complaint of the main matter. Like. It's about the exceptions I mentioned earlier, where against the decision to separate the records from the case file. Obsolete time limits are also extended for the initiation of the infringement procedure and for the execution of the criminal penalty, so that from the initiation of the infringement and the initiation of the procedure from one to two at a relatively old age and from two to four years in an absolute statute, i.e. in the execution of the infringement sentence at two to three years. Also in the beauty of criminal sanctions, these are penalties, it can be a fine because the fine is abandoned as an extra-priority institute because we have fines and prison sentences, and the security measures are substantially changed and the precautionary system. And an extended catalogue of precautionary measures such as the prohibition of leaving a court without authorisation, the prohibition of visiting a particular place or area, the prohibition of access to a certain person and the prohibition of establishing and maintaining a link with a particular person, the prohibition of taking certain business activities, the temporary withdrawal of travel and other documents for crossing the state border with a prohibition, etc., the date of authorisation of authorised prosecutors, the authorities of the state administration for their application and, of course, prior to the initiation of the infringement procedure and given temporarily for eight days and then on such extension or determination of this measure, may be decided only by the court. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This is also crucial to the new Bill of Infractions. I have tried in the opening statement only to specify those important institutes and newspapers that we believe will be achieved in this bill in a way that the infringement procedure will finally become a procedure that is quickly and effectively implemented and that in the future we will not face the question of the purpose of conducting a misdemeanour procedure when those who have violated the standards of conduct, even if in the criminal proceedings ultimately remain unpunished. This bill is in the first reading and, of course, all comments, proposals and MPs and later in the expert debate can only contribute to making this law even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87921	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee, chairman of the board, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87922	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. At the 54th session held on 24 April 2007, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on infringements, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 12 April 2007. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Prime Minister of Justice pointed out that the Justice Department's working group proposed a new law, taking into account the initiative of the High Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, and criticism of the professional public during the application in practice of the Law on Infringements. The paper proposed on solving easier forms of violations is the introduction of a mandatory infringement order. The view is that any form of criminal action and the offence should also be provided for judicial protection. The competent prosecutors shall be obliged to issue a mandatory infringement order against each perpetrator of the offences prescribed by local and regional (regional) self-government and for a violation of a law prescribed by a fine under paragraph 1 of Article 239(2) instead of filing an indictment against the court. The appeal against a mandatory criminal order shall be decided by the competent criminal court. It is proposed to propose a general limitation period for criminal prosecution two years from the start of the offence, with the power to give special laws the time limit may be prescribed for a longer period of time but no more than three years. The limitation of enforcement of infringement decisions is prescribed only by this law, so-called. the date of the relative limitation of enforcement shall be set for a period of two years and so on. the absolute time limit of limitation shall be determined for a period of three years. A number of procedural newspapers are proposed in the direction of achieving the principle of economicity of the process. The most important news is that the conduct of the infringement procedure by applying the rules on the main debate is significantly reduced to serious infringements while the procedure for easier violations and procedures in special cases is implemented according to the rules on an emergency procedure. Important newspapers are proposed in the investment of regular legal medicines. The new regulation of the appeal is characterized by the setting of the limits of the examination of the first-degree verdict. The ruling shall only be examined in the scope of the party's appeal and shall be kept under official duty on infringements of the material criminal right to the damage of the defendant and the occurrence of the outdated second-degree court. Removing a number of gaps in the exemption provisions, setting out the type of decisions in the infringement procedure, nearly two-thirds of the amendments to the current law are proposed. In the debate, committee members supported the bill. The opinion is that the proposed procedural standards will contribute to faster process management and a reduction in the number of statutes. It is estimated that the introduction of a mandatory violation order is a positive shift in solving the problem of easier violations. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions: 1. Proposal for a Code of Violations is hereby adopted, and 2. Any objections, proposals and opinions raised in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Infringements will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87923	Thank you. Committee on Gender Equality President-in-Office of the Committee, Honored representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87924	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 43rd session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the draft law on violations. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative met the committee with reasons for the adoption of this law and it is certainly among the more important to remove a number of weaknesses, indeterminateness and legal gaps observed in the application of the existing Law on Infringements. It has been indicated that criminal-legal repression is tightened, fines and prison sentences are increased, and limitation deadlines are extended. The Committee referred to those provisions of the laws that may and should address issues of protection against domestic violence. Following this discussion, the provision of Article 33(7) should also be extended for the most serious offences committed in the family to ensure that greater penalties for the violent conduct committed in the family are prescribed. It is also an opinion that should extend the circle of the household in the article 130 which prescribes precautionary measures. For example, for former mates, children of each of them because this would avoid legal proof of who is all housed. The opinion is also that it would be good to allow parties and not only the defendant in the procedure to file a complaint against the solution. Furthermore, it is necessary to prescribe, in Article 134, an obligation on the police to notify the competent authority of social care immediately of the arrest if there are offences related to domestic violence. This need for coordination between state authorities stems from the Protocol on the treatment of domestic violence. Furthermore, in Article 135, which provides for specific circumstances that justify the fear that a similar infringement will be repeated, it would be good for the purpose of a proof procedure to prescribe established fear and not specific circumstances as proposed now and allow the prosecutor to file a complaint which is also a victim. The opinion under which Article 184 should be regulated in such a way as to require the court to make the certified copy of the judgment mandatory for the damage to be delivered in the proceedings relating to domestic violence. Furthermore, the provision of Article 221 laying down the conditions for the conduct of an emergency procedure should also be extended for violations of domestic violence and in accordance with the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, as well as the Protocol on the Treatment in Family Violence. After the discussion, members and members of the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. First, to accept the proposal for a law on infringements in first reading, and to refer all opinions, comments and proposals to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87925	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87926	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The area of the offence is indeed a very wide area, and when we look at it, we do not have any specific law in which we do not have criminal provisions where certain misdemeanors are not prescribed, where certain penalties for such behaviour are not prescribed. And that's why this is one very important law because this is a fundamental law that determines the institutes meant for the entire system of violations. So in any case, it's good that the law goes into regular procedure, that he's in the first reading that means until the second reading you can fix certain things. What we are assessing is already in this stage of the first reading well set up and it is very quality written both nomotechnically and the solutions it offers. We have the Law of Infractions, which was passed in 2002, today is 2007. Indeed, it has been a long time these five years to show both the good and the bad of this law which is in force. It is certainly that the existing law has certain gaps, it has certain indetermination, it represents that it offers certain institutes that slow down the proceedings, and if we look at today how the infringement system works today we will actually see the most practical when we get a legal order, we open a misdemeanor procedure with the competent court, after the competent court makes a decision on the offence we write a new legal remedy. It goes to the High Violent Court and slowly a nice object enters the statute of limitations. So it's kind of a general picture of how today's system works. And if we compare it to these solutions that are being offered here today, I don't think it's going to be possible anymore under this law. This law indeed offers one clarity, one precision and offers one speed of action. It opens, of course, by making sure that certain negative behaviours have occurred in society, I don't know, a number of incidents on sports grounds, the number of violations related to public order and peace violations has increased. We read domestic violence every day, we see in the press what appears, and this law allows for both sharper and slightly stronger repression. It means the state's response to such behavior. However, what is very important to say is not crucial and it is not a central question that these be some kind of harsh punishment but that it is important that this system works. It is essential that these negative behaviours be sanctioned in a procedure that will be within the time that the law is laid down. Therefore, there is no doubt that this law will lead to efficiency. It will lead us to the fact that we will not be able to avoid such procedural possibilities, and we particularly welcome these new institutes offered by this law. It's an emergency procedure and it's a mandatory violation order. I'm absolutely sure it will lead to the dispensation of the High Violent Court. I am quite sure that there will be many fewer cases that will end in antiquity and on the other hand, in any case to welcome it is such a concept of a new Law on Infringements. When we look at the fact and quickly cross the whole law there is no doubt that the criminal-law sanctions are much better, much better prescribed and arranged. We know that in the current law we have the prescribed fine and fine. Although there is no fundamental difference between these two institutes. That's why this concept and this bill of law erases the fine from the concept at all. We also see that a much clearer and much more quality solution is actually a system of fines. It's no longer intended for fines, I don't know if it can be charged so now offer whether the convict will go on, go to jail for not paying the fine but the penalty is to be charged. It is, it is very important and it seems to me a good provision and a good intention of the legislator to certainly go primarily to try to collect and only if it remains without success then the judge has more power to possibly replace it with either a prison or this voluntary work in the interest of the wider community because here we have already so many times told us that we and the prisons are actually full and that people are actually sitting in them for such minor cases. The frameworks for sanctions in the infringement procedure are also much better set. Of course, a lot better determined are the subjects themselves of the misdemeanour proceedings. This means both natural persons and legal persons and craftsmen and we even see one status of these persons who do not have the status of either legal or natural persons and for each of these forms are prescribed special minimums and maximum penalties that can be determined. So it's also a very, very important, important newspaper and one quality of this law that is more precise and that means for different groups regulations and different frameworks. Obsolete, we've heard from the secretary of state prescribed means now on a wider scale, although I believe that now that we have this mandatory violation order that, by itself, by this institute alone, things shouldn't become obsolete anymore. Maybe even, maybe even with nostalgia, we'll remember those times when we could go into obsolescence to process institutes, but I'm afraid after the law's entry into force that it won't just be. But the goal is to regulate the functioning of the rule of law and the goal is to actually act within the framework of legal norms, not to avoid them. So parties, participants are much more precise and specific. We now see that we have an inaccuracies in the DA's office, and we have inaccuracies in the current law regarding the state's attorney as an authorised prosecutor. He's, of course, detained here as an authorised prosecutor. In practice, however, we know that the infringement procedure does not occur so often but mainly by public administration authorities, that these are mainly administrative bodies which submit authorised proposals for the initiation of the infringement procedure. Also the provisions regarding the defendants are much better made so that the defendant is whether it is much, it is extended that circle or actually more precise. The defendant is a natural person, a physical person. A craftsman, a person engaged in other independent activities. Legal person and her equalized subjects. Perhaps this "equal entities" should be better specified so that there are no confusions and responsible persons in the legal person. These are all institutes that are quite well defined in this law. What is also important to say is an improved system of legal medicines. Legal medicines in the current law are not really best affected. There are certain confusions. Then we also see a system of extraordinary legal remedies. It is now really set in a way that the High Criminal Court should decide in a short time on the appeal and then again in the same case and on an extraordinary legal remedy. Now it's introduced one property, one cash census after which this extraordinary legal remedy can go, and I also think it's much better, much more precise. As regards the provision of a measure of conduct, procedural provisions of conduct shall mean a misdemeanour. We all know that the subsidiary application of the Criminal Procedure Act has been detained. However, some provisions have now been specified so that the application of these provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act would not complicate the matter and would not lead us to the application of the Criminal Procedure Act. Because it's simply not about the same works. Infringements, they also represent a crime. They also represent negative behaviour, however, do not have the weight to demand that such a comprehensive procedure be carried out and that is why one newspaper was introduced here. So it's predicted for easier crimes to rush, which is also, which is also very correct. And finally, what I'd like to say once again is this mandatory violation order is one very significant newspaper. A very good provision that will actually lead to discharge and misdemeanor courts because on the one hand it means that the body that is authorized to initiate the procedure can issue this mandatory infringement order, and in fact it seems to me that many will not be interested in doing any legal medications at all for it but I think it will be the most rewarding that penalty to swallow what would be said to pay and end with that story. So, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law in its first reading. We judge him well, and he will indeed lead to much more effective action in a misdemeanor procedure, and I would say that this is one in a series of laws regarding the judiciary that we have brought to justice in this term, although there is indeed a series of objections to the judiciary, and that is it. Here's yesterday we heard words and cancer wounds and everything was there. But you know, when a deep analysis is made, it's seen that in the judiciary, things are going slowly and moving towards the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87927	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87928	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is one of the key laws for the functioning of not only the judiciary, but the state system of the Republic of Croatia at all. Namely, the criminal sanctions on which this law states, this law has been laid down, can be applied, applied to five hundred, more than five hundred different regulations in the Republic of Croatia and other laws that prescribe criminal sanctions, up to the decisions of certain authorities of local self-government, regional self-government, etc. which also prescribe that something is a violation of a certain decision and all of this is subject to the law of violation. So it is one law that includes the full functioning of the legal and political system of the Republic of Croatia and is therefore fundamentally important for development and democracy and what we call the rule of law. So respect for the regulations that have been adopted here or in other competent places. This is the fundamental reason why the Croatian People's Party club suggests that this, this reading is now being treated as a previous debate. Namely what? When I went to prepare for this debate after the Justice Committee, I tried to contact the judges of the Criminal Court on the ground. Whoever I talked to except what they read in the paper didn't see that text. Our intention was to object to it from this pay phone and say that it doesn't make sense because it's the law that people are going to implement tomorrow. They can make the best, the most concrete, the best and the smartest objections to the law because they know how things work every day. But then at the club's address, I received a letter from two judges of the High Violent Court in Zagreb who said they didn't see the law either, and that their only information about the law was an interview with their president in "The Vesnik". Now, if that's the case, we can have opinions here on certain provisions of the law, we can think they're good. I agree with my colleague Bosnjakovic. What he said was simply true. Things are improving, rationalizing from his, from my cancer. But let's face it, they're not top experts here. Top experts in experimental physics are sitting in Ruđer Boskovic. High-level law enforcement experts are sitting in the High Violent Court. If they didn't have a chance to see this then it's very difficult from these benches to give competent opinions on certain provisions of this law. But good, since it is about first reading whether it will be, will the Proposer accept it to return to its very beginning and to allow judges and misdemeanors and the High Violent Court to say something about it. It's a proposal, but since it's about first reading, I'd just like to look at some parts of the law. The terms of sanctions applicable to the infringement of the law, i.e. in the punishment of what is actually a non-compliance with decisions, have been ordered by that body of local self-government. So the penalty of warning measures, protective educational measures, the notion of fines that we have discussed in the past amendments and the additions of this law a lot. Now it finally disappears from the law and what's the difference between fines and fines. There's probably no difference. The promoter analyzed the situation in 83,000 cases, 83,000. So it's 83, a big city in Croatian standards that broke regulations. Of that, there was no punishment for $23,000. There were warnings, parole and so forth. The real punishments that should have been filed were gone. In only 400 cases, the law is prescribed. If the level of repression increases, some kind of punishment shall be determined for the same acts. So no more conditional than either monetary or some sharper this statistic is going to change. Will the situation change? No, they won't! It'll only change numbers. The situation will remain as it was and should be considered whether all that is stated as an offence actually falls within the Criminal Law or by some measures that the administration, the state administration of the administrative authority, can actually be removed from the jurisdiction of the criminal courts. So far, a number of infringements of various regulations have chosen to go to prison for two, three, five, ten days as long as the penalty is to avoid paying fines out of curiosity, for spite or for no other reason. The proposer, in my opinion and in the opinion of the HNS Club, is trying to disable it in such a way as not to allow the offender to choose whether he will pay or go to prison, but rather to try to charge as possible, and then, if he cannot, if in no way can he be charged to himself, that the court may decide whether the offender will go to prison or work for social benefit for a certain time in that system of work with freedom. The extended deadlines are obsolete, both relatively and absolutely, and it is quite certainly good, especially in a situation where courts and those who enforce sanctions are located. Even because a good part of the offender is a good part, we all know such examples, especially in traffic and similar offences, a variety of extraordinary and regular legal remedies, are stalling things until they're out of date. I know more people who have managed to get to antiquity than they have paid a more serious sentence for possible violations. What I don't fully understand is the possibility that the special laws of the deadlines continue to be delayed, I don't know if I get it right. One of these special laws is the Law on the Protection of Copyright where, for example, the whole process can now be delayed to 3 years. I'm not sure that's it, I'm not sure that's good because I'm not sure about the motives of this extension. On page 12, materials are also described later in the articles of precautionary measures, newly introduced precautions that did not exist in previous regulations, for example for temporary withdrawal of the driver’s licence not only for road vehicles but also for boats, for aircraft and similar things. In this summer season, we meet constantly with people on purpose, for reasons other than the obsessing over regulations in tourist zones. If they don't commit a crime, nothing happens to them most of the time. It is now possible to lose their ability to operate their vessel. In the same place, something that I think is very dangerous is proposed and that you should think about it three times before entering the legal text, i.e. that the police and all the inspection bodies of the administration may establish temporary precautions, so that the confiscation of what is already before the infringement is initiated. It is clear that I can determine when a misdemeanor is initiated. But before the process is launched, I think it's both constitutional and legally unwarranted and unacceptable to the authorities of the administration and the police to apply repressive measures to the citizens. All in all that we have been able to analyse this bill in the club is a proposal that seeks to improve the situation, correct some mistakes that have been shown in practice, but without the opinion of the professional public I think it is inadmissible and that the debate in this House should begin when the professional public has already taken some position on this. And we, on the basis of the proposal from the Proposer, are also forming a political and nomotechnical law that will tomorrow be a regulation for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I propose to the Proposer to consider treating this as a previous debate until it has been conducted by an expert public who obviously has not seen this and then the law is returned to a further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87929	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87930	Thank you, Mr. President. It is therefore incorrect to say that the draft draft of this regulation, namely this law, did not involve the professional public, or the judges of the High Court of Commerce, were not involved. It's simply not true, and that assumption is due to the very truth needs to be corrected. Because the fact that it is exactly the opposite situation, that the professional public, the representatives of the High Violent Court and through the Working Group were involved in the drafting of this bill. It is also necessary to correct an incorrect assumption that in logical terms cannot be accepted when a colleague says that the realisation of the institutes that are proposed will not actually change the fact that they are not. Well, a colleague will change absolutely if these institutes that are proposed in the law are applied and will have to be applied. And that, what does it mean to change the factual state? This means reducing the number of cases and updating the infringement procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87931	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87932	It was just that a colleague incorrectly said that the proposed new institutes, such as an infringement warrant, would also not achieve the required infringement order. However, it will be because it is a modern approach that will become effective exactly in the proposed way. Also from extensive material, from the introduction, but also articles in the newspaper, it is pointed out that Mr. Potočki, the president of the High Violent Court, also Mr. Rasho, his deputy, as well as the esteemed professor here, Josipovic, who was also mentioned in the daily newspaper, also participated in the drafting of this proposal. Therefore, the right path is precisely the result of the proposed law, which the State Secretary just stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87933	Honored representative Pero Kovacevic, club representative of HSP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87934	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. Well, it is an unquestionable fact for us at the Croatian Party club that the applicable Law on Infractions is essentially a failed experiment, which we pointed out and when the law was passed in 2002. Unfortunately, this law has so complicated the resolution of criminal charges and the conduct of a misdemeanor procedure that it has been called, with the right of experts in the area of criminal law, by this Law on Infringements that we now have, in essence, a small CAP. And that is why there was, among other things, the urgency of both the infringement and the High Violent Court in 2004 was much smaller than in 2003, where, for example, in 2003, it was still done by law enforcement courts, the High Violent Court by old law, and it was said that some 65,000 received cases were resolved for 2003, 65.91% and 59.56% were resolved in 2004 with a total of 374 judges, and in 2004 a total of 379 judges worked. It is only the biggest problem that the government, or the ministry, did not give statistics on how many misappropriations have gone into obscenity, i.e. requests to initiate infringement proceedings, because we also know that according to official data from the state inspectorate concerning the area of work and other areas covered by the state inspectorate, 60% of the infringements have ended up out of date. 60% of the misdemeanor reports ended up out of date, and we don't have this data. And I think that the data that goes on for 2005 and 2006 is even worse in this part of the update and everything else. But here, we need to know right away. When we talk about the criminal right that we have to bear in mind two important facts. First, by breaking the law, what we are dealing with first of all is this procedural procession while the same important part is we are solving meaning regulation which is a violation, criminal sanctions are solved by a special law and there are over 500 and something, I don't think the HItro. And for that part, we are the most guilty here, that is, this assembly of parliaments and the former assembly of parliaments, because many laws are passed by emergency procedure, and in the process of drafting the law, no misdemeanor courts, or the High Court of Infringement, are consulted. It was once the government's obligation that, before it makes a legislative proposal to the Parliament, it must, if the law specifically requires both violations and criminal sanctions, that it must seek a position, opinion of the High Court of Justice, or of the Criminal Court. Why? Because in this way all of this is unfortunately happening, because a number of these statutes are due to the fact that the law does not determine the entity of the offence is not specific or it is determined, and it is a big problem that the Criminal Court and the Higher Criminal Court in handling and resolving such claims, and therefore we have come to this situation that most of these goings of criminal charges end up out of date, and now if we take these data that are also given here, let's say, in addition to that assessment of the criminal penalties imposed on the sample of 83,000... Decisions on the offence committed during 2004, and now you see that in as many as 23,000 solutions to the offence, perpetrators of the offence have not been punished, warnings have been made. [[You don't understand.]] Why are they spoken for? It's not the problem of the Criminal Court itself, it's their failures, it's the problem with these material regulations of the specific laws that we're laying down, we're here to contribute to this impunity as we contribute to the impunity of the courts themselves and all the means that under the current Criminal Code are authorized and can initiate a misdemeanor procedure. So this part of us won't do much. We're going to make one step that's true, but we're not going to bring the situation into the state that we're all sure want the misdemeanor procedure as such to be quick, to be effective and to be satisfied with the principle of legality and the principle of determining material truth. So these are the most important things to be satisfied with infraction, but I'm just saying this is the only thing we're not gonna do. Now this problem is, let's say that every time we see that the situation doesn't work out for us, if we're going to extend the age-old deadlines, how relatively, absolutely obsolete deadlines. So that's not the answer. That's not the answer. It would be far more appropriate for the ministry, or the government, to give us one full analysis of this report by the High Court of Violent Crime and Violent Courts, which is why the results are so bad. Which is why the results are so bad. Because we are those problems that are both in judges and in the courts themselves, which are the problems that we are making bad laws here, so we misrepresent the misdetermination, so who can be as such, against whom the offender can be charged, who is authorized and all these other things, we will not solve that part because this first question has to be solved, all those causes of bad work and in the courts themselves. There are various situations in the courts themselves, let's just say one analysis, comparison of solving in the same or similar situations, your situation is different, there is no taking these unique legal views and everything else that is very important to bring legal practice into line within the framework of criminal law and everything else. Therefore, we must not cultivate false illusions and false hopes that by changing the Law of Infractions with these things that are, these suggestions are in place in certain matters, but we will not solve this problem. However, we will not solve this until we resolve the matter of the urgency of the work of the criminal courts because how can it happen that the number of judges is increasing and the efficiency of the courts is lower? Is there, is there surveillance there, is there effective surveillance? What is the surveillance of the work of the judges themselves, the misdemeanor courts and everything else, and this most important part that the Government must do, which is one and together with the criminal courts, with the High Violent Court, maintain a joint session and according to the areas, according to all the laws where the offences are prescribed, you will get from the High Criminal Court all the problems and in what way are the failures in determining and prescribing violations, sanctions and everything else. And when such an analysis is done, then it is necessary to go to changes and supplement all these special laws. And you yourself have witnessed here that individuals, even the government has suggested it, see that it does not stick to what was once the law cannot be referred to as certain violations without the opinion of the High Court of Infringement. Here we had a proposal with mah and that word from Minister Calmeta's portfolio, that he was going to say by law that he was going to sublegal regulations himself to determine a violation. We had this here, but it was even shown to us that this is a alignment with the legal gains of the European Union, and we know the situation that a violation like that can only be prescribed by law, that is, the exception is this part of the municipality, the cities where they have the authority for it, and that is still a special problem when they prescribe violations, when we so misrepresent the being of violations, sanctions and all that in the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament, this is still a story for themselves, so if we did that analysis. Therefore, in the name of the Croatian party's law club, we are asking you to prepare this part in another reading and how and in what way this issue will be resolved in the material laws of others, where the infringements are prescribed, which measures are proposed by the Government to raise the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the judges themselves, because the fact that we increase the number of judges, and their urgency is less and the fact that we cannot resolve the issue of efficiency of the courts only by extending how relatively so absolute obsolescence is going to happen to us in a few years, that we will raise these deadlines relatively and absolutely old age to, for example, 6 years, and then to 7 years, and then we will not be in a situation like, today we are again growing the number of cases and in regular courts somewhere around a million and a half, and the average is 10 years, and the infringement procedure will start to us in this way, and this is not a criminal procedure, it is not a matter of criminal right, it is not a matter of efficiency, it is not the principle of effectiveness, the principles of efficiency, the principles of speed and the principles of the old principles of law have been determined by the law, and the law, and the old principles of law, and the rules of which we have been determined in which are better in which we have been established in the law in which we have been established by the law. years than in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Set all the principles of a misdemeanor, because there's only a part here. That's what I'm talking about because I've been practicing criminal law and I know what criminal law is. One of the most important things about misdemeanor law is quick and effective action. It is one of the principles that is important to satisfy, but here we have made this law valid we have made a small CAP that has enabled a variety of legal tricks that have only just contributed to the process being delayed, i.e. have the effect that there has been antiquity in a huge number of cases. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87935	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87936	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, Croatia is a small country and then here we all meet in some different roles. It's right at one stage when he started working on the law even more for Ms. Scare Ozbolt's ministers when the university participated in it, and I had the honour and I have the pleasure to say in a large task force to help in some way because it coincides with what I'm doing at the university in preparing this text, and right away I have to say that a wide circle of people was involved in that, including a number of judges of infraction courts, in Opatija a large set of it seemed to me that 300 judges were discussing the draft still has a year and a half and as far as I know and the High Court of Violents had held a debate at their session on the law. So personally, as far as I'm concerned, I only have one objection, which is that the law has been standing in a drawer for so long. Why? I don't know, because in those years and a half or two as far as the draft was figured out, nothing really mattered in it, so it's a shame that the law didn't get in the process before. As far as the content of the law itself is concerned, I think that exactly what the predecessors said was that the current text of the law actually in one unusual procedure turned into a small KZ and a small CAP and it was not good precisely because the nature of the infringement procedure was not such that it would be done. The essential feature of those who must be on the plan of protecting human rights is indeed the speed, efficiency of conduct. Also injured goods that are offended by violations are very often at the border of the baffles, and now that you look at the costs and the system of criminal law, then we must certainly conclude that we have acted as drunk billionaires so far. I mean, imagine if you were driving without a ticket on the tram, the price of the map you know what it is, what was going on? Someone dealt with you because he reported you, after which a judge dealt with you, so it was a delivery, assuming there weren't any of these tricks that his colleague Kovacevic was talking about, so someone wrote a solution, so you got a solution, so you complained, so the administration handled it, and even three judges of the High Violent Court discussed it, yes, you drove with a ticket or without a ticket in the tram. So, you spent so much money on the price of that ticket that it wasn't actually roughly the damage it was. And that's why this idea of introducing that mandatory violation order, one quick act I think is appropriate to the nature of the offence and is appropriate to the value of the goods being protected. There are also true serious violations where millions of fines are prevented, fines where there are and safeguards that lead to certain times and bans on activity and for such violations must be provided for a full procedure where rights of defence are guaranteed and where there is legal certainty for citizens, it seems to me that this balance in this draft seems most important to me more or less made. Furthermore, the existing law has proved to be such that even with these forms because we have written a small Code of Criminal Procedure, the criminal penalty pays only anyone who will, because if you do not need to be a great lawyer to make the case become obsolete. The limitation deadlines were short, and the forms were so complicated that actually if you didn't want to pay the fine well you went into the procedure, took a little exemption, so a little complaint, so you don't come along and there's no criminal punishment. This is not acceptable, of course, because from the point of view of the rule of law and certain legal cultures and discipline and of course it must change. It is true what fellow Kovacevic says that for some time we react to the ineffectiveness that we may have caused ourselves with not very wise violations of provisions to react by extending old age, and that is my first remark to the law. I think the two-year-old general deadline I see from the press has been accepted by the ministry in compromise with trade unions because of violations relating to labour relations is not good. It certainly doesn't mean that the violations in the field of work that I personally consider one of the most serious violations should not be sanctioned by harsher statutes, but it's not done as you did, it's done differently. In fact, we all know that violations, individual violations are prescribed by special regulations, and that the general part of the criminal law allows the special law to provide for the limitation of time limits. Well, here's my proposal and the SDP's proposal to make this outdated longer, that limitation period for labour-related violations is prescribed by material law, therefore, by laws governing labour violations. And to leave this one-year-old limitation period here, because, you know, Croatia is not and should not be one police state where someone who has passed the zebra for four years, two plus two that you will deal with it in a misdemeanour procedure or such similar offences. And the vast majority of them are just like that. So it would be good if we didn't go out of some partial or perhaps demagogue interests in a norm that actually doesn't seem to me to be relatively intruding into human rights. Let's get this over with, we've got to deal with the labour violations. After all, it is part of the SDP's policy to protect workers and workers. Let us settle this by prescribing longer deadlines and much stricter sanctions than this is now the case. The text of the law itself may have here, a man might wish for some more small repairs and removing some shortcomings. I would like to warn you, perhaps, of Article 94(2), which did not properly regulate the decision on the renewal in the infringement procedure. This is where the administrative authorities decided in the first instance they would also have to do in a renewed procedure. For example, Article 109(8) does not define the body of the state administration as well as the bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Furthermore, Article 113(6) has been missed and failed to regulate the situation when the damage to the prosecutor in the proceedings died, the right of the heir to continue the proceedings. It seems to me it's a very important thing. Furthermore, Article 151(8) does not provide for such an additional solution when certain questions relating to the penalty are not resolved. And there may still be another imbalance in the mandatory violation order in paragraph 239 of paragraph 1 at the height of the sentence, because it would turn out that in fact there would be no mandatory violation order in the law, which I think needs to be fixed. I would also warn that there is one printing error in Article 226(2). Instead of number 3 should stand the number 4. That's what the judges warned me, I have to admit. And two more, three maybe principled things. We have an institute of parole with protective custody. The question arises, is this institute really appropriate for any paroleal conviction, especially in the case of short term prison sentences, the issue is expensive? If there might be one, I even have to admit I'm not determined what I'd like to do. But maybe it's a question to think about. It should also be seen that as little as possible of this supple law. Is there anything else that could be sharpened? We know how much it costs and how much prisons are loaded. And here, by the way, there's a problem with terminology. There's talk of an establishment when it comes to prison. Prison isn't an institution. Maybe there's a correction to be made. And of course something that's a question and concept. In the case of implementing rules, I think that it should never go to analogy with criminal law enforcement rules, but should provide that all enforcement rules for the infringement procedure are to be adopted specifically for that procedure. What seems to me to be the result if this House adopts the law, is that the courts will be drastically disbursed. Why? Because a large part of the case will in general be dropped from courts, first-degree courts. And the High Violent Court will be drastically disbursed. Especially these small, insignificant things where it's really not appropriate for us to hire a large machine with four judges and escort staff to decide actually minor violations of the legal order. What will arise as a problem and what is very often a problem in Croatian law is that we pass a regulation or a law that is good and a promotion, but that in its implementation we wait and wait for the entry into force to be unprepared. I would like to warn you that the administrative authorities will receive a much larger number of cases for decision-making in both infringements and in some first-degree proceedings and it is immeasurably important that, in one appropriate case, the legislation of the national authorities of the administration, be able to conduct infringement proceedings. Of course, it can't be prescribed by this law. It is a job that the ministry together with local self-government units must do the first day after the law is passed. If it is, and I hope it will in Parliament. And yet the last problem that is also not directly the problem of this law but is the problem of all of us. We very often and very easily pull out a gun that would be said. And in laws, special laws put in violation provisions where they should and where they shouldn't be, that's one problem. And the other problem is that very often special laws under pressure from some sensitive social relations devast the system provided for by the Law on Infringements. I'll only tell you one example when there was a lot of traffic in the field. This House was bold and passed a law on the prevention of violence on sports grounds that is inadmissible. Why is it inapplicable? Because it is foreseen that the judge performs the procedure on the spot, and forgetting that the procedure is conducted under certain rules. If the judge had to have a record guy, that he had to have some kind of courtroom, that he had to have equipment. And that's why, of course, it doesn't apply. Let's say, it's an example of standardization. It would also be in the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. Unfortunately, I have to admit, there are some provisions that are not until the end, precisely because of the seriousness of the problems that domestic violence may have to bear, may have to be observed. And now maybe it's time for some of the measures, let's say that meat to say, which was created in protective measures, where you don't know whether it's a safeguard measure or a precaution, now might be the time to clear it up and fix the problems. Unfortunately, it's before us again and now the Voluntary Law, where violations that shouldn't be are prescribed. We don't execute a contract so breach of contract we go norm as a violation. I don't know why and how, but I think that hoarding unnecessary violations should in some way stop. Finally, the SDP club, along with certain remarks and remarks and the desire to improve the text a little bit further and to do so, supports this proposal, and we believe that they will mean one important improvement in the work of the Criminal Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87937	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87938	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. After that provocation and shame with an attempt to abolish the court in Rovinj, Mr. Lino Cervar in front of HDZ, or I don't know who the president of the parliament or prime minister is proposing to abolish the court in Buzet. The same is what he's proposing to abolish a mistrial in Buzet. The truth is that the HDZ in Buzet doesn't get more than 5% of the votes but this is a perversion and you have no reason to do this... Court in Croatia. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87939	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87940	And don't provoke, and why are you doing damage to Istria and yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87941	Peace. Please, Comrade Cain, limit yourself to this debate, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87942	And I ask Mrs. Bagic not to agree to this amendment... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87943	Comrade Cain, I warn you, I warn you, take care of this agenda point. Don't provoke others.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87944	It happened sometime last night or after six o'clock in the evening or this morning. And I don't think that's gonna happen. ... As far as the existing Law on Infringements is concerned, which is now the 2002 law is a good one, and this legal proposal, among other things, and in the view of the part of the judges of the High Criminal Court who have been sent back, is back at least thirty or forty years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's like we're going into '71. Not in the European Union. Violent judges apply over 500 basic laws. If we add a thousand of these sublegal acts to that, it's about a thousand 500 regulations, clearly mostly out of line because we've been since the '90s. to this day we've passed about 4,000 laws. And then there's really a question of who can track it and coordinate it. A good misdemeanor court is probably the backbone of a state, and possibly the relationship along the border in Buzet because that court covers that border line of 38km. What you are proposing again, in the opinion of the High Court Judges, is against the European conventions. An examination of witnesses for individual offences is hereby terminated, as they say, against Article 29. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because, in the event of suspicion and charges of a criminal offence, the defendant has the right to be tried in his presence if he is available to the court to interrogate or question the witnesses of the indictment and to require the presence of a witness to the defence and under the same conditions as the witnesses of the indictment, etc. For these cases, up to ten thousand kunas would now be issued orders without being loaded into the case by the person concerned. No cross-examination. And now he's setting himself up where the problem is. Not in first degree court because the results are getting better there. The issues are in the High Court of Infringement. Croatia as well as Slovenia should pass this Law of Abolition for everything that is obsolete when it comes to violations because these items are not being handled anyway. And once again, I will protest the suspension of the court in Buzet. Buzet is a small environment, perhaps the most economically powerful per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87945	My colleague Cain, last warning before he took his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87946	I can stop like this and now for ten minutes with silence protest against this behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87947	You won't stop and you won't be ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87948	Violent court in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87949	Thank you very much. I take your word. Please sit down. Please leave the pay phone, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87950	Mr. President, let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87951	I took your word. Please leave the pay phone. Mr. Cain, why do you provoke this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87952	Why are you doing this to us, Mr. President? You're probably behind Lino Cervar and Lino Cervar isn't doing it for himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87953	You have no right to speak anymore. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I warned you repeatedly to stick to the subject. You keep off topic talking. The Rules of Procedure make it clear and precise that the chairman is obliged to warn you if you turn away from the topic and you have turned away. I warned you, I repeated you, and I begged you, and you persistently and deliberately went to challenge and violate the Rules of Procedure, so I, who should then protect the Rules of Procedure, should be tolerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87954	Mr. President, I can understand, I can understand and understand the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but you must also understand the citizens of Buzet, Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87955	You can't. Leave yourself alone now, that's another topic. This is the subject of the Law of Infractions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87956	And what will cause this proposal by Mr. Line Cervarus.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87957	Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87958	Which I want to believe the State Secretary will not agree to in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And let me finish my mind off.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87959	You won't finish it because I took your word. Please sit down. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87960	It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87961	It's a shame your behavior, Mr. Cain. Honorable representative Ljubica Lalić Club of HSS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87962	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and colleagues. Indeed, after this painful situation, it will be quite difficult to speak, but that is why we are parliamentarians and we must act according to our responsibilities to those who voted for us. So we have before us the Law of Infractions and it's a brand-new law. To think about whether a new law is needed or not, we will never stop. In 2002, we passed a new law of misdemeanour, which was significantly in line with the infringement procedure and in the name of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, we made a series of remarks, and in the end the law was passed in the third reading despite the fact that the profession was not accepted, despite the fact that the courts were not prepared to comply with that law. After that, we had a very short deadline for amending and supplementing the law, and now we have a whole new law. Of course, we have always pointed out that any changes to the law and any new law that contributes to improving the existing state of affairs are very welcome, but we must exchange our views on how slow down the work of the courts by the constant adoption of some new laws, because from 2002 until today, the courts have learned to apply the existing law, which is, as it takes time and now we have a new law and new adaptation and a new delay in the work of the courts. We also consider the previous colleagues who have always spoken on behalf of clubs that this law is an improvement compared to the existing law because violations are a milder form of criminal acts than criminal acts. So this is about less socially dangerous acts and the largest number of crimes seems to be from the clearing, and the perpetrators are mostly persons who are otherwise not prone to committing criminal acts. However, even though this is a milder form of punitive action, despite the fact that the perpetrators are not prone to committing crimes, the perpetrators of these minor forms of crime must also be punished as a warning and therefore also have a punishment for having both a preventive character and a repressive character. And every law has its own, it makes sense if it's practically impeccable. Following the basic principles, the principles of economicity and efficiency, the infringement procedure must be brief, swift and just. However, such a procedure must not be at the expense of the full determination of the facts. Such a procedure must lead to the measurement of appropriate and individualised penalties. Only appropriate and individualised punishment has an effect, has this preventive effect and has a certain repressive effect. What is alarming today in the area of criminal punishment, which is said by the legislator himself, stating that out of the 83,000 cases, only 23,000 solutions have been made. Namely, 23,000 solutions to the offenders' offenses have not been imposed. So not only but even in 23 thousand solutions to the perpetrators' criminal punishment has not been imposed. And now we're wondering if the law makes sense? Does the law make sense if our case law goes against the intention and intention of the legislator? The legislator intended to sanction a socially harmful action no matter what weight they had. And now we come to those who need to achieve the purpose of the law. To achieve the legislator's intention. And then we come up with an absurd situation that out of the 83,000 solutions, as many as 23,000 solutions to the offence of offenders, no punishment has been imposed. And if we go into the punishment structure further then we will see that judges resort to very mild punishments such as warning, conditional convictions or only protective measures and educational measures. Can the purpose be achieved in such a way? Of course he can't. Where's our court practice? I know that in Croatia, court practice is not binding and that court practice cannot be managed by judges. But what happens to judges who obviously do not value certain values that are accepted as such through laws and through the Constitution? What do we have to do? What do we have to do? That one value for each judge is equal to the value. And if the same value is then, of course, the punishment that is appropriate for the perpetrators will be found in all judges. Because it's quite clear that the equal penalty for each perpetrator is not equally effective. Because there's no law that could only prescribe one sentence. The height, say, of fines but for all the perpetrators. It's just not possible. And it must be left with that range in which the judge decides by his own assessment, which is an appropriate punishment as a repression for a committed socially dangerous act. Furthermore, this law extends time-limits. The previous law shortened these deadlines. We're going back to continuing today. Are we going to solve the problem of extending the sentence? Before the law was passed in 2002, the wrongdoers on average resolved, an average judge in Croatia dealt with 1500 cases. After the law was passed, the number of cases was clearly reduced. And if we're going on a discharge now, and we're introducing a violation order, the mandatory violation order is in any case a dispensation of the criminal courts, whether we need to extend the deadlines out of date because in this way we indirectly send a message to the judges, to the offenders, that they have room for a certain let's say laziness even though I am aware of all the problems the judges face from that most banal example, which is the inability of making the call. Unable to deliver court delivery. It's a very simple problem, but often an insurmountable problem. The very common reason why procedures are extended and delayed is due to antiquity. I'm not sure that by extending the deadline we're going to solve these problems forever and that we're going to reduce the number of objects that will go into obsolescence. I'm really not sure. What we consider to be good is the introduction of guarantees or, and, not or but retention. Because that is exactly the problem we have pointed out in the discussion of the current law that especially foreign individuals will very often avoid the execution of penalties and proceedings. But a good procedure not as much as the execution of punishment because there was no way for them to be held back. Now, by introducing this guarantee, we think it'll help anyway. We have further changes on prison sentences as a substitute for unpaid fines. And then we pointed to the problem, and we suggested putting priority on all possibilities of forced execution of fines, because we were aware that many citizens of the Republic of Croatia would understand the overcrowding and lack of capacity in the prison system, that they would avoid paying the fine and then I said a little ironically that the role of the prison would be understood that the prison manager would be aware that the prison manager would print certificates about the execution of the sentence that would never occur. It's good here, too. Here it is good that the emphasis is put primarily on the payment of fines imposed although there will be frequent phenomena that this fine will not be charged, it will not be possible to charge and then comes either the prison or the charity work. Are we ready in Croatia to ensure the execution of charity as a substitute fine for fines, i.e. before the execution of the prison sentence. I'm not sure. Here in that part, of course, we need to think, and in that part we need to do everything in order for this law to really be enforceable. So this is the law in first reading. We think that there is room for the correction of the unsaid and motifs and us in the legislative authority, we in the Croatian Parliament are tasked with passing a law that will be practical and therefore leave first reading, second reading. If there is a need for a third reading so that we can find solutions, solutions that will achieve the purpose of the existence of criminal law, and not only of law as such, but also of this policy as prevention. God forbid our number of violations is reduced. However, I'm not sure that the number of violations will be reduced in the atmosphere, in confidence, in the social consciousness that says that, so we can be punished but that punishment exists. It's highly likely that this punishment will never be carried out. If penalties are not carried out there is no purpose of punishment, there is no point in identifying certain actions as socially dangerous and socially harmful. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports this Criminal Law in the first reading with the expectation that the Proposer will come forward with well-intentioned remarks and include these remarks in the second reading so that we will have not a dead letter on paper, but a law that will be applicable and hopefully long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87963	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87964	The colleague has just incorrectly stated that it is not the consulted expert public that I reaffirm, and that the President of the High Violent Court has also mentioned the participation of Mr. Potočnik, his deputy Mr. Rasso, and also Professor Josipovic mentioned in his report just earlier in making such a proposal, which is the best practice that the proposed law that we are discussing can be well discussed both in the second reading and after the second reading was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87965	We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87966	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It was just a good practice that following a series of amendments and additions to individual proposals in this case, the Proposal for a Law on Infringements has become a new proposal, which is in a very modern way, an appropriate time in which we live, and decided to be effective. The principles to be adopted and presented in this bill are precisely those which should be implemented and which should achieve maximum efficiency. Of course, the most important one is the new one, the newspaper in this bill, i.e. the institution of a mandatory infringement order, which at its very beginning and intensities confirms that in fact the general conditions for issuing a mandatory infringement order are primarily used to sanction violations prescribed by the decisions of the unit of local and regional self-government, which I would say is another step towards a modern decentralisation so that both units of local and regional self-government can sanction and carry it out until the end. Of course, the key newspapers are the ones that represent improvement compared to so far's regulations. It's a very simplified process. Reductions are unnecessary, process actions at minimum, and for the main debate are provided only for those acts that can be judged by a minimum of 10 000 and more kunas, i.e. when the prison sentence is mandatory. The role of defenders as well as the criminal procedure is evenly set, so all the process can go on even if the defendant has no defenders. Therefore, no obstruction can even slow down, let alone stop this simple misdemeanor. The differences are made when the procedure is accelerated if it is a minor, if the perpetrator is detained, if it is a deafer person and if the defendant is a person without permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the implementation of the rush procedure is an obligation to implement, and when the only prescribed fine is up to 10,000 for a natural person, 30,000 for a legal person and 10,000 for a responsible person. What I point out again is the institution of a mandatory criminal order issued by an authorised prosecutor before only the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure which does not wish to be burdened by the court, but requires a thorough education of the employees of such bodies who should know with certainty and officiality how to carry out the procedure. It is mandatory to issue if the offence is prescribed within the municipality and the county and if the fine is prescribed in the range of thousands to 10 thousand kuna. Of course, it must be known that the prosecutor who did not issue a mandatory criminal order but immediately filed an indictment will not achieve anything because the court rejects him in that case. And it is therefore very important to say that it is not always worth it to object to, but to the usual rule of any decision should be objected or complained. Because she's unnecessarily slowing down the procedure. But in this case, it will be because of resolution and objection that more severe punishment can be imposed on the cause of the appeal than on the one who has been convicted. Of course, all those suggestions are useful that will further improve that the authorities of the state administration who are conducting the infringement procedure can issue criminal orders, but with that primary matter of preparation and education. This means that the working premises of such bodies in the State Administration must also be suitable for the conduct of such a procedure. Therefore, the very clear intensity of the introduction of the payment of fines at the scene of the offence and the conditions under which it can be imposed. Of course, it is also mentioned to the Institute of Obsolescence which I believe that due to the very nature of the offences it would have to be for some things and shorter, and shorter for reasons where it is not successful within such a quick and short period of time, then it really does not need to consider the possibilities of limitations, because only needlessly then we burden statistics that we have not been effective or applied good law, and in fact we see how the other participants know and can enforce any sanctions provided for by the Law of Infringements. Therefore, it should always be an approach that the persons of the infringement procedure should be thoroughly educated, they must have working conditions, as it can be clearly pointed out that the simplification of the system of appeal in the post of acceleration of the procedure has been defined and certain rules in order to be effective and meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87967	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87968	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, support in the first reading of this Bill on Violations, and in this respect I certainly believe that it is one step further in the legislative regulation of this problem, i.e. the problem of violations. However, there remains a serious issue in which we must quite, quite seriously start to debate, which in a broader sense actually began the functioning of the judiciary, and then is broken to this issue. This is not only a matter of pronunciation but also of carrying out sanctions scheduled for criminal offences. We have an ever-increasing situation that the sanctions actually imposed cannot be realized. And for the overcrowding of prisons, when it comes to prison sentences, on the one hand. I'm not going to talk about what conditions are in prisons, that even a public defender warns that it is a violation of the human dignity of the prisoners, but in certain cases, and that measures must be taken, which shows in fact in a serious situation. Either we're going to have to work and expand the capacity of the penitentiary or we're going to have to question whether every crime we have as a criminal or a crime of the sea of those we've been prescribed to end up in fact so far if it's a judicial verdict of any violation of any regular court with a prison sentence. Personally, I believe that this part should be examined significantly, significantly, and in fact, in this segment, I feel that it is also necessary to examine, look at and edit this issue again in this bill of law. In fact, it is not good that we turn out to be as strict as we can to try to solve these issues. And in such a situation, in my deep conviction, more needs to be sought out by new instruments than I know of fines, perhaps in the case of community service or some other measures that will actually replace such measures. We've been going often with sanctions that are getting sharper and sharper, and we're not actually achieving another result. Another question I would like to ask is the question that, in fact, in some cases, not even now about the criminal measures, that is, the Law on Violations, and especially with criminal laws, cannot achieve a unique position, a single policy that will lead to the punishment of those actions or criminal offences that may or may also become criminal offences, which are extremely socially dangerous acts. I'm thinking first of all, and I'm opening up the question of what's wrong with paying our workers off. Is it real or not first not only a matter of offense but also a criminal act that can lead to very serious issues related to the existence of the family. The second question, which I also open, is whether the time has matured in Croatia, and we have repeatedly discussed in this assembly that the crime of unauthorized possession of substances or preparations that have been declared by the regulation with intoxicating drugs in small quantities, not as it is usually said, decriminalises, but to turn into a criminal offence and actually take off that part of the crime. What's this about? if you look at this crime today, then the largest number of those who are in custody or in prison, so even after a conviction, is about persons who are actually addicts, who are sick persons, on the side of what conditions they serve their punishment and under what conditions they feed their addiction on the one hand and on what conditions they come and begin to be actually recruited for potential dealers. I think it's time for that part to be debated quite seriously, to be introduced into the sphere of breaking regulations to be a violation. At the same time, to open up what is far more important, and this is a question of expressing the measures of compulsory treatment, etc. that you are particularly young people and persons in a very difficult situation because addiction is a disease and we need to be aware of that and therefore I put this observation with hope, with the conviction that we will open the debate until the second reading. The main question is, if you know our practice. Today you open the paper and then you see that one person suspected of drug dealing, who's in custody, of course has his cell phone in custody, in prison. He gets regular, he writes like that in the paper, marijuana, etc. etc. And as she acts in detention on those other orphans who are addicts, who have bought from them or others because of their addiction and because of their illness that part, and we have sent them to prison instead of giving them a criminal penalty or community service and that we have also given him a mandatory treatment measure and returned it, create the conditions to try to bring him back to life that is very important. A similar situation is when it comes to violations related to economic activity, causing in fact bankruptcy that should be considered in particular or bankruptcy, whether it should remain a crime or should become a criminal offence. Not only in extreme forms, but usually as a rule because it is actually such cases where a large number of not only has no use but a large number of damages are suffered by those employees and families who are in that part of it and examples if you look at it in Western European countries without any doubt, without any dilemma being declared a criminal offence, not only to close the company, etc. but is declared a criminal offence and the issue of protection of national interests is raised, as the issue of labour and development is a very important issue of the interests of those who are employed, etc. So I'm putting this remark on. What exactly would I like to say? The law is good when it comes to the classic forms of crimes that are otherwise known, but several new areas of social unacceptable behaviour that have elements or offences or crimes or criminal offences, which should actually be considered and the law should be opened if we go to another reading and if we go to a completely new law-making as it is now, to further discuss these issues and to open them up. I'm about to make some, not all, I've opened some. And in that segment, we should consider this one more time, and we should discuss it one more time and see it one more time. It's a good thing it's in the first reading, I'm going to support the law in the first reading, and I said it in the introduction, and I'm stressing it one more time, but I'm also asking these questions to be discussed again. And the last ones I'd put on, that's the question you know the mass of regulations that regulate violations that directly make you indirect. And with that opening one very important question. Has she matured in our situation, such as in some Western European countries, such as in Germany, Scandinavian countries, etc. that the entire vast area of violations in financial, tax and customs operations is actually being extracted from this segment and that special infringement courts are being formed, financial misdemeanor courts that will finally solve these areas as specialised criminal courts that will deal with it and that will create space in this way for these issues to be dispersed. They can be like in some countries at the ministries, of course, both independent and separate. It's a second question that I don't want to talk about, because it's an organization issue, but it remains a matter of functional problem solving because often in these segments we come in a position to get out of date. Not only because of the poor or not quite prepared work of the misdemeanors, but because of the burden, because of the objects that are being imposed and which are very large and in such a situation should be taken into account and should be taken into account. If this were to be singled out in a specific part of financial and criminal, I am sure that it would be more efficient and significantly contribute to the protection of both national and national interests and, of course, the legal security of our citizens. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87969	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87970	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. After a painful reform of the judiciary to remind ourselves a little, that in the government's trio of legislative, executive and judicial special power, it is a judgmental one. That it is carried out by courts which are authorities of the state and which exercise the judicial authority independently and independently within the framework of the delirious and jurisdiction laid down by law. The Law on Courts as a fundamental act establishing the formation of courts is prescribed that the Republic of Croatia is subject to regular and specialised courts. The specialised courts are just infringing courts with commercial courts and the High Violent Court, the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Everywhere in the world, in Europe, and then in Croatia, much is expected from exactly the infringing courts as well as the first distance in which the person who violated the right is in contact. These regular courts are a little more distant or so should be. That is why, of course, they play a great social role, and they are expected to have a future. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the criminal law, to the infringements of the courts applying it. It is primarily intended to support the intensities of the promoters for the principle of efficiency, but never at the expense of human and citizen rights. I also know individually when many of us object to some norms are procedural, whether they are in the sphere of criminal trial or litigation when they're facing them, so why wasn't this justified, I should have, I didn't have time, etc. So we think that this applies to others, that is, when, as part of the government, it was executive or legislative, we want to show it very effectively to those same citizens. Therefore, to shorten this in principle, it is in principle to support the principle of effectiveness, but not at the heart of the determination of the true factual situation, and then the correct application, i.e. the correct measurement of the criminal sanctions. Is that how it is with a proposal like this, and in fact, if we can actually lift the courts of the infraction, combine them unnaturally with the community that I was talking about yesterday, which was also a decision made with a big pompous to repeat in some sort of... with Finland, so something illegal and unconstitutional was done when several courts of Benkova were joined, the Benkovac Criminal Court, the Benkovac Municipal Court, and then in Buzet, Chambra, Ilok, Makarska, Otočca, Pakrac and Pregrad, that it was not taken into account that the wrongful judges had become judges of the municipal court, that no one would know about the complaints, the objection, or the legal remedy against those violations which would now bear the seal and have the form of an act, that is, the judgment of the Municipal Court, who will be able to do so? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But quietly the ministry gave up on it with some kind of... the public’s argument that there are no expectations fulfilled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how did they please and what expectations did you have and how could you have? However, we can join the courts, lift the courts, separate them, make different combinations, make the law to that extent faster to bring down human rights in a violation procedure almost to a minimum, and will this criminal trial be effective? In the end, he won't do it again. Why? Because there are a large number of cases in criminal trial, and in criminal courts as well as in all other courts in the Republic of Croatia. And the key question is, here, in fact, often when we're discussing justice, we're discussing how many judges there are, how many courts there are, at what rate they're at, of course, the key issues of the judiciary, but the original question is why there are so many cases, why in such a small country with so few inhabitants has an enormous number of cases? These are essential questions which are not answered by the judiciary but which must be answered by the authorities, primarily by the executive authority, but which is the result of a deep conflict and mistrust of individuals towards the state, but also by the same state towards the individual. It is the result, i.e. the cause of a deep conflict on the relation of an individual society. Society is totally anomalous of us because it's not normal for so many violations to have so many violations of rights. They generate from there with a key message when those who are invited to first enforce the laws they have passed do not apply them, or do not respect them. Let's just look at the regular trial in litigation courts that the state has become one of the largest numbers again, one of the biggest participants in the process, and then it's a bad message to the citizens. Breaking the law isn't considered anything eloquent. It's something that everyone does, but it doesn't affect everyone in this one general mess of the hands of justice either this mildest offense to the most severe punishment and then everyone thinks it might not be broken on me either. So we have to make sure that the number of objects is reduced, that people respect the laws, that they accept them, that they take it not as eloquent, but as something that makes life easier for them, for themselves and for others. It assumes one regulated state, built institutions that we don't have, and such a bill of violation presupposes above all an absolutely regulated administration and administration, an administration that is believed to be. When we worked a few years ago, the new Criminal Law also asked why we needed it and according to... factors and bodies, so why do we have to anticipate judicial protection in everything? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know what's responsible? Because we don't trust your administration or your administration. So, as many objections as there are to the judiciary, which also does not enjoy citizens' trust, but even less that administration and administration, and now we give it great powers. Is she capable of that? Is it able to provide adequate protection to citizens, i.e. adequately assess and sanction something that has so far been subject to a criminal trial? These are important issues, and what has been done in this administration reform? Not at all. I must point out that 10 years ago, it started from the old Yugoslav law to harmonize exactly with the European law standards with the acquis of the European Union which has just been tasked with protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms because it is estimated not to satisfy that law. Now the question is, is this a step back to that concept that we had during the former state? These are serious questions to be answered. Moreover, in the whole law, it is quite clear that two-thirds of the old provisions of the existing law remain in force, that only one-third of the changes are made, but the law is pompously named new Law on Infringements. Is the question of the communicability of procedural and technical pragmatism the idea of guidance, which was managed in the drafting of this bill? The basic question, not only of this Law, but of this new proposal, but also of all others, is to strengthen the possibility of interpreting norms. So our laws look like some kind of picture book. It literally has to be drawn. Then let us also abolish law schools where it is a fundamental issue of interpretation and application, and our judges have also learned to apply for two years, three as far as this Law and Law are concerned, and they have improved the norm, which is true although we must not ignore that in the last three years 56% has increased the burden of the High Court of Justice. It's something enormous. And one more thing, precisely in order to be adequate and to solve some of the situations that are fatal, we have a system breakdown in prisons. We cannot allow and must not allow the possibility of a superlative prison sentence, i.e. the replacement and failure and inability of the state to collect fines, so because of this inability, it sends such a defendant to prison. It is the prison system that is before collapse that shows all the missing policies both in criminal trials and in violations of so far, and in the future, the cancer wound is not exhausting or repairing, but just as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87971	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87972	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a distinguished colleague said that this law abolishes human rights, or quotes, "People's rights are reduced to a minimum." I think it needs to be fixed because it's really not true. Everyone is subject to a misdemeanour procedure and is thus provided with judicial protection under this regulation. What the colleague in her debate actually avoided saying was that the complete crisis of criminal proceedings and the burden of the High Court of Violents was actually created by the adoption of the Law on Infringements in 2002 and its application in practice. And this law is actually a new, better-quality law. In fact, it corrects all those anomalies and legal institutes that were or existed even today and were introduced to criminal justice in 2002. The dispersion of the High Violent Courts that you're on, the distinguished colleague, has just happened, but only by the application of the proposed infringement institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87973	Final review. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. ... You've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please hear that violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87974	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, my dear fellow, our esteemed colleague Emil Tomljanovic was correcting the incorrect, injure the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because he said so. That he was a colleague, that he was correcting it because a colleague avoided saying and then commenting on something I didn't say. And in the introduction, he said, originally he said there was one violation of the Rules of Procedure. And in the same way, he says, he puts in my mouth what I didn't say, that this law will be suspended or human rights reduced to a minimum. I am neither the minimum nor the maximum in my entire debate, but I asked an open question whether it would be reduced? So that's one rhetorical question. But since you say that and you're making me right now...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87975	Well, we won't go any further. We can't. There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87976	She might agree with these corrections of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87977	It's, it's not... Now, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a representative of Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87978	I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87979	Final review. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87980	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its contribution, for the government's attempt, or as the legislator of this law, to make the infringement system of the criminal trial as effective as possible. In some discussions, it has been said too many times and some MPs have also referred to the fact that this law was not preceded by the debate, an expert debate i.e. that judges of both the High Court and the Criminal Court were not familiar with the text of the law. The practice of the Ministry of Justice in law relating to the judiciary and its functioning is that all the texts of the laws of the working groups normally drawn up by the representatives of the courts, the State's attorneys or the judicial authorities and the academic community delivers to the highest courts and courts all the others for their opinion. Of course, it now depends on their organization and perhaps the interest of how actively they will be involved. Clearly, when it comes to such important laws, then and when they are delivered to the widest professional public, the public can sometimes be divided. The right to an individual opinion should be respected. However, the law was indeed done by experts, it was a profession. It was composed of a working group, I have already said which were representatives of both the High Violent Court and of certain first-degree courts and has been discussed several times. In fact, one of the objections was that the law stood in a drawer for a year and a half, so what was the wait? The law was long-prepared, not standing in a drawer. And the reason why his preparation took so long was to carry out as wide a professional debate on the one hand. On the other hand, the preparation and the authorities of the State Administration as one of the authorised enforcers of this Act or Prosecutor as soon as possible for its implementation. Why? Because here it is said that this law means a step back 20, 30 years. I wouldn't say that. This law will mean actually changing the culture of behavior not only of those who should implement this law, the bodies of state administration and courts, but of all of us. In fact, often times or times we hear from individuals who have been abroad, outside, say, "Listen, there's not much debate there, come to you not know a cop or inspector, pay you a fine and it's an effective exercise." And we find it positive, of course, justified. On the other hand, what we are looking for and commenting on is that it is good out there, obviously not enough for us to have matured this awareness that we too must adopt such standards of conduct, that we must, if we have violated and these rules of conduct which are not a criminal offence in terms of the criminal act prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, but are still easier to harm social behavior, but they are punishable, punishable. And the one who has hurt and such standards of conduct should therefore be met, the appropriate punishment should be paid or other appropriate sanctions should be applied. However, the question arises who should do so? Is it always necessary for such minor violations of the social rules of conduct to judge judges and to carry out judicial proceedings, especially in the beginning of the first degree? Such violations of the rules of conduct in our court should be carried out and sanctioned in the first order of the administrative body. The analysis of the application of the payment order already under the existing law shows that what the police were saying in the first place, I just said it in the opening statement, only 1/3 was, ending up in a complaint before the Criminal Court. We are now assessing that 70% of the procedures in front of the police and 50% of the total initiating administrative bodies could end up in front of the administrative authorities. Of course that does not mean that in such penalties as will be imposed by the authorities of the administration will not be secured by judicial protection. There is always a court case or appeal for such proceedings to be carried out by the Criminal Courts. This will contribute on the one hand means in the first order these are procedures which are not in their nature, they do not have to be led before the court. Judicial protection is secured, but judicial protection will be carried out under this proposal will also mean both the discharging of courts and the misdemeanor and, of course, the High Court of Justice. At the same time, this means that it will be possible for the High Criminal Court as a second-degree court to carry out what its basic tasks are through its jurisprudence by appeal to contribute to the uniformity of judicial practice. At the same time, we will also have the possibility of this court acting as... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administrative authorities will impose fines for which they... under this law and the High Court of Infringement and Infringement Courts will primarily judge those crimes which, as a violation of conduct, as an economic offense,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] environments, domestic violence is more important in the beauty of the offenses prescribed by a series of laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then, of course, it allows judges to apply laws with which citizens will also be more satisfied and will allow courts infringing in this broad range of rules they apply to balance judicial practice. There's been a lot of words around here. The statute of limitations is not prescribed in order to esculpate the courts or judges. The truth is that quite a number of procedures ended in old age. All the misdemeanor courts in 2005 solved a total of some 402 thousand cases, some 49,000 cases ended up out of date and, as far as the High Criminal Court of the total cases resolved in the same year, 35,000 600 and about 20,000 600 ended up out of date. I'm not saying that because of the fact that you're not going to talk about these courts because, as you can see, the courts have solved a large number of cases. I am saying that, with the improvement of course, both legislative and organisational in courts, it is not only the courts that we can blame for a large number of statutes because the question arises when this procedure is generally brought before the court and how long it remains. So, forever, the extension of the limitation deadlines should, first of all, allow all those who have sinned against the social system to be punished, so that they are not said to avoid the punishment of any of its charges, whether it be a possible prison sentence. This does not serve, and this is not the purpose of extending the deadlines of limitations because this will allow for a significant change in the procedural or procedural procedure where an urgent procedure for certain criminal offences is introduced, and then by changing the possibility of making an appeal, the exceptions of the judge and the delivery. In fact, it is now more possible to express delivery on the court’s advertising board and by changing the role of defenders means a lawyer representing a person in the process by not reducing their human rights or their right to defence but by preventing them from using such procedural instruments from conducting the procedure and completing it within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the first reading. All these comments and suggestions will be carefully considered at the level of the section to have the breaking law effective, effective, which is a common objective for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87981	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Third, Proposed Code of Infractions, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion:... Representative Pero Kovacevic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87983	Your Honor, Mr. President, when it comes to the Code of Infractions, we're looking for a five-minute break because yesterday we were deceived because government representatives also told us that a broad debate was being held with the profession of this law. Today and yesterday, the Croatian Party of Rights Club and you were also contacted by representatives of the High Criminal Court and representatives of the criminal courts who said that the general debate was not carried out professionally at that level. However, that only Mr. Marko Raso, Mr. Zoran Potočki, who is president and Mr. Ivo Josipovic, made this a very serious law to see how and on... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87984	Order! Please, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87985	So, we were deceived yesterday by a government official. Even Mr. Josipovic said a broad expert debate was held. Here, you have a memo, too, and there are other notes of a memo that the profession has not even been involved in the drafting of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87986	Peace, please. Why do you need a break and a club? Here is the proposal to conclude that the law is adopted in the first reading, the conclusion in the first reading. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87987	Look, it was in the debate, I'm sorry, but a previous debate was proposed because the profession was not familiar, Mr Vuljanic said. Then the representatives of the government and Mr. Josipovic told us it was done, everyone participated. We got evidence today that they weren't involved, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87988	Okay. So peace, please! And why do you need a club session to take that stand? You will vote for or against this conclusion proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87989	Look, Mr. President,... Reading the Law of Infractions isn't a serious thing you know and you're here on your own. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So you got this memo yourself. Is it a fact? So now let's let this law first read if it's over. The question is whether to succeed in doing what needs to be done, so that we don't have a situation like this. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87990	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87991	And there's no government representative to tell us. Look, we're voting today and there's no one from the government, and we've got evidence that we've been deceived.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87992	Okay. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87993	On behalf of the club for similar reasons, I'm looking for a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87994	Okay. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87995	I don't know what's going on, but I can't... But I don't think there's been an oversight of the President's desk, especially the president of Mr. Shakespeare's office, so now all of a sudden, he's skipped the 3rd and 4th points and moved on to 5th. I'm interested in Mr. President who are... [[The speaker is not understood because of the noise in the hall.]] [[The speaker is not understood because of the noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87996	You got a problem with excuses somewhere?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87997	These points, under regular numbers 3 and 4, are the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 674 and Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, P.Z. No. 675. I just want to remind you that these are points under regular number three and four, and now suddenly we've moved on to the point under regular number five. What's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87998	That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u87999	Dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88000	I'll answer that question a little bit later. And now first, I'd like to skip this request for a break on the draft law on violations, and we'll continue voting next, and then I'll give you a break and give you an answer to this question. And now there's that proposal from the HSP and HNS Representatives' Club to seek a break. If you insist on it then the break will be decided. Here you go. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88002	Well, the wisest thing is to postpone the vote, to get the minister to come and tell us, so here we are, because there's no role to play for a week, and we have some information that you and the president have. The memos and you have those memos.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88003	But good. Let's simulate now the minister comes by and says, what will the minister say. There's been a debate, open up a debate. Okay. Are you insisting on a break or not? No, I don't. A colleague of Vuljanic's? No, I don't. Let's then vote on this final draft of the law, on this proposal for a law on conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. Therefore, the proposal for a conclusion is adopted by the Proposal for a Law on Infringement. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. The result? 101 votes for, 6 abstentions, 5 against. The proposed conclusion has been adopted. We are going to the next point - Final Proposal of the Law on Volunteering, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 565 The proposer of the law is the Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the family, youth and sport and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity Stjepan Adanic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88005	Your Honor, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. I'll brief you here at four points why it's important to pass this law. First, in order to ensure a social environment favourable to volunteering and to prevent possible abuses, to protect volunteers and volunteers and to regulate the situation of all legal and physical persons involved in organised volunteering by law. Under two, in Croatia, individual volunteer activities have been partially regulated by law and are governed by a series of separate laws and volunteering is defined differently. Voluntary work is also called the unpaid professional training of trainees, the Labour Act, for example. That is why discussions on the Voluntary Law often go wrong. It also discusses the internship and payment of internship and payment of volunteering, which is not the subject of the Voluntary Law. The Voluntary Law clearly states that volunteering in Article 3, I quote, "sufficient investment of personal time, effort, knowledge and skills which perform services or activities for the benefit of another person or for the general benefit and are carried out without the conditions of payment of a cash reward or the claim of other property benefit". Under three, the operational plan of the national strategy for the creation of an incentive environment for civil society development in Chapter 6 of the legal framework for the action and development of civil society in the section of the measure provides for the adoption of new regulations and coordination of existing civil society developments in the Republic of Croatia as their implementation. This is, for example, this law that is here now, means the Law on Volunteering, the Law on Foundations, the Law on Organizations that act for the common good and that during this year 2007. And under four, in order to allow volunteering in accordance with the principles and regulations of the European Union, such as Council Recommendation R 94 4 recommends that countries define volunteering at national level, stressing its educational aspects and importance for society. The Council of Europe Recommendation 1496 of 2001 improving the position and role of volunteering in a society that recognises the role and value of volunteering and requires the identification and removal of all obstacles that can prevent a person from volunteering and the adoption and promotion of political and legislative solutions that will promote volunteering. The Council of Europe brings forward a number of documents such as the European Convention on the Promotion of Transnational and Long-term Volunteer Service for Youth, which further promotes transnational volunteering of young people from 18 to 25 years of age. I must say here that the Republic of Croatia has not yet ratified but the Domicile Ministry, meaning the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, in accordance with the operational plan for 2006 and 2007 of the National Youth Action Programme, provides for the launch of the procedure for signing and ratification of that Convention. There is also a Resolution of the United Nations General Assembly of 56/38 of 2002 recommending countries and the creation of encouraging fiscal, legal and other frameworks, including for organisations engaged in volunteering through the introduction of encouraging legislation, tax incentives and subsidies, and facilitating the creation of partnership relations around volunteering in civil society. We all know that, in 2001, the United Nations declared it the International Year of Volunteers. Document 89/17 and the date of December 5th was declared International Volunteer Day. These have launched various initiatives to promote volunteering. The European Voluntary Centre, a European network involving 38 veteran and volunteer centres and volunteering organisations, published in 2006 the Fred of Volunteering in Europe, which is intended for all those who make decisions on the various institutions of the European Union, and explains why volunteering is important and proposes concrete ways of supporting, promoting and helping volunteering in the European Union. I will also point out here that governments and civil society organisations in other countries are becoming more aware of the importance of the legal framework and of promoting and enabling volunteering. The experience of European countries shows that legal frameworks become an important factor when various legal provisions or lack of legal protection create obstacles and prevention, in preventing volunteering. This is why, especially in the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, the recent trend has surpassed the clear and public recognition of volunteering and has shifted towards creating a legal environment that will volunteer and promote. The countries that have passed laws or laws that regulate this problem so far are Italy, France, Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Spain, Portugal, Brazil, the United States, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Romania and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia, these, this means these, this law that we are talking about is in the process of adopting means in their countries. Now just one more thing about the necessary means to enforce this law. There is no need for large funds to implement this law. It is 100 thousand kuna per year from the State budget for the implementation of this law, and the amount would be secured in the coming years. So it wouldn't increase from year to year but it would be the same. It would be spent on the work of the National Committee for Voluntary Development, Office Costs and other material expenditure necessary for the operation of the National Voluntary Development Committee and for the operation of ministry officials related to that law. Costs of data processing and reports of volunteers and the cost of producing and awarding an annual state volunteering award. What's the latest on the draft bill? There aren't many of them. I'll expose them here. It's just two. So Article 24 introduces the State Volunteering Award as the highest recognition that the Republic of Croatia grants for volunteering or contributes to promoting volunteering and other volunteering activities. In the principle of protection of persons is partly deprived of business capacity, Article 14(2) prohibits the volunteering of a person’s completely deprived of business ability. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88006	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Lucia Cikes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88007	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the Final Proposal for a Law on Volunteering and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law, and we believe that it is very useful both for the individual and society to put full volunteering into legal frameworks. This law also lays down the issue of volunteering in accordance with the principles and regulations of the European Union. But volunteering as an activity is also of interest to the Republic of Croatia, leads to improved quality of life, active inclusion of persons in social events and development I would say both human and democratic society. Already Mr. Secretary said that volunteer work is a non-profit, non-payment, non-economic activity to which individuals contribute to the welfare of their neighbors, their communities and society as a whole. And as such occurs in traditional customs of mutual assistance to organised community action during a crisis period. And volunteering is more or less a part of every civilization and part of every society. Volunteers play an important role in the country's well-being and progress. In humanitarian aid programs. For technical cooperation. To promote human rights and democracy. Volunteerism allows people to work for the community at the same time developing their skills and learning new ones, I would say applicable in the market system. So, through voluntary work, we have the opportunity to learn something new that will help us in our future life and even find a better job. Volunteering is also the basis of many NGOs, professional associations, trade unions whose action is currently dependent on volunteer efforts. Volunteers work for organizations and institutions for various reasons. It would be said by those of altruism, a desire to help people who need help and need help. To be useful to the community. As well as from, out of personal interest. For example, a desire to meet new people, to learn new ones, to learn new skills, or to enjoy leisure and travel. The importance of volunteering is great. So you can see that the United Nations also declared 2001 the International Year of Volunteers. You always ask yourself why volunteer? Because it simply builds awareness of its working abilities and values. Because you get useful and requested work experience. Because they meet new people. Because this promotes the value of civil society and directly strengthens civil initiatives in the Republic of Croatia. Protection of human rights, non-violent communication and promotion of cultural, ethical, sexual, racial and age-long differences. Because it simply encourages the development of less developed parts of Croatia because it will learn about the values of civil society because it helps people, because it helps others and institutions, because it increases the value of the demoted I would say the type of work. Volunteering is both appreciated and fun and feels good when it seems good. The volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia has not been sufficiently developed, although there have been significant steps in this area lately. For this reason this law is necessary, this law is called upon as an invitation to all sectors to join in strong, recognizable and effective local and state-run volunteer centres, and on the basis of a steering organisation for volunteers. This law is also one way of responding to the Government to allow all people to volunteer without legal obstacles and to involve everyone and to involve all volunteers in their work. This is also an invitation to government organisations and to support the efficiency and mobilization of volunteers primarily through funds. This law is also an invitation for entrepreneurs to encourage and facilitate the involvement of their employees in the community through volunteers. We thank the promoter for having accepted and implemented all useful proposals and useful remarks in this Final Proposal of the Voluntary Law, which we heard in the previous debate here when the bill came. In the hope of reviving in practice the benefits of volunteers and those who use their services, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club supports this law of awareness of the importance of volunteers, their work mainly during the Homeland War, where we are immeasurably grateful to them. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88008	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88009	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club has already supported this bill in its first reading. Then, however, we presented a series of suggestions for his improvement. We are pleased to see that many of our proposals are embedded in this final text of the proposal, especially in connection with young volunteers, with the systematic collection of data on volunteers, volunteers and other remarks we had at the time. I agree with most of those grades that my colleague Chikesh has just made regarding this law. But we would like to underline something else that we must clearly and openly say that the Council of Europe, as the Secretary of State said in 2001, suggested the adoption of such laws and sublaws. So it's really high time we did that, and hopefully the law will get a kind of needy number of hands to accept it tomorrow. The law is important colleagues and colleagues from a number of aspects – with educational education, with social, with humanitarian, with developmental economics. All of these are approaches and aspects from which we can and need to analyse such a law, and that is why it is really, really necessary. I would, however, take the opportunity here, after reading carefully at our club, to make this final proposal of the law, and some more remarks that we think the Proposer might improve for reasons to make it even clearer, to make the definitions of certain concepts even better, even better, so let me go in order. I'm sorry, I left the law. Darling, just give me that law, please! Here's my colleague and colleague, and I apologize for this, but to be as quick as possible and as effective as possible not to improvise, I'll warn you of certain suggestions in front of our club. The first and fourth points of Article 13 are in general cohesion, as it is said that underage persons should be clearly placed and volunteered in the role of educational purposes. For the purposes of the same Article 13(4), it shall be stated that the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may cease volunteering at any time without the consent of the legislator or representative. It's the term, namely we understand the applicant's intensity, we understand. But you do realize if it's an educational purpose then a young volunteer shouldn't just be able to turn himself off, say I won't volunteer, I don't want to volunteer, then basically that educational moment is clearly devalued here and we think it should certainly be pointed out here. Keep going. Article 22(2) of the First Board members shall be appointed on a deadline, a pardon shall be spoken of by the National Committee for Voluntary Development, and it shall be said that members of the Committee that they shall be appointed for a period of two years and may be re-appointed. It is our suggestion that only three more words be added at the end of that sentence, i.e. to be appointed for another two years. Not more than two years. Why? For reasons that we think it's not good for someone to sit on any committee or on the National Committee for 20 years or more, but we think it's good to have fresh blood, fresh ideas, new people, that they can only contribute. It's our deep belief that this formulation leaves one of these same people sitting on that National Committee for a long, long time, and we don't think it's good. Article 23, that is, this is the new chapter - the Ethics Code of Volunteers. We think that maybe we should consider changing the name of this chapter to the ethical code of volunteers, and you will see in the further text that it is said that the code prescribes rules of conduct not only of volunteering but of organisers of volunteering and user volunteering, so that perhaps there should be some expression that will satisfy in a broader context what follows in Articles 20, 24 and beyond. Article 26 then speaks of the Volunteering Treaty and says the Volunteering Treaty is concluded orally or in writing. We're not too sure if it's oral if it's a contract or a deal. We know clearly what he's thinking again, and we know that other laws tie us up and make this possible. However, it may just be possible to use a better expression there. The third point of the same article also states that when a volunteering contract is concluded in oral form, the organiser of the volunteering shall be obliged to issue written confirmation. Why not make it clear then the contract was a matter of many of us at the club if he had to issue written confirmation? We're not sure that we're not making things a little bit more complicated for ourselves and that maybe it could have gotten rid of it in some other way. Article 27y here is quite significant, so I'd like to ask you that we're all really following that text here. Point 2 of point 2 of the statement with the approved signature of a volunteer or volunteer that there are no circumstances that prevent her or him from jeopardising the lives and health of the persons with whom they will contact during volunteering. Look, I think the statement by the volunteer himself that he won't infect anyone, that he won't pass on some disease to someone is not enough. It would be that if we were already going to go to that category that we thought someone might be able to infect someone, endanger his health, etc. It must still be some competent medical person, not that volunteer himself says I sign a statement that I will not endanger anyone, his health etc. So if we get that part of the text correctly, I don't think it's precise enough. You'll tell us of course whether we've been thinking in the right direction or not. And Article 29, volunteers or volunteers may always unilaterally terminate the contract unless it would cause direct and immediate damage to the organiser of volunteering, volunteering users or third parties. So the volunteer can currently terminate the contract, and we say here only on condition that it does not harm the organizer of the volunteering. We're wondering again who's going to decide. Who's gonna decide? Once again, in the first instance of the 27th article, it decides that it will not infect anyone, it decides here that it will not damage anyone. Therefore, these relations are not too precise in these articles and we want to warn from the Croatian People's Party club, we want to get even more quality law, because this law, we agree with the predecessors really needs Croatia and it will regulate a lot of what has been lacking in our legal legislation so far regarding volunteering. But we have some other objections regarding some regulations, some services, but I think it's of secondary importance. And I wouldn't be longer here, but I'd like to pray that in these 5, 6 articles we try to find better solutions, a more quality text that will certainly avoid the possibility of interpreting these articles in different ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88010	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88011	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the promoter. Let me immediately, on behalf of our club, make a point that undisputedly confirms that this law, from the first reading to this final proposal, has seen a proper improvement and that it is much better than it was in the first reading. However, on behalf of our club, I would like to say that this is not good enough for us to vote on it without eventually trying to fix it with amendments. In my court, it would be best if the motion itself did so and, in fact, with these amendments, to resolve this issue which is of interest to the Republic of Croatia as stated in the law itself. You see, what questions should I resolve? You know, for example, Article 3 mentions that volunteering is not what is conditioned by the payment of a cash prize or a claim or other property benefit. And what about the unimaginable benefits? Whether you should install non-equity benefits or examples works, I think you can have a very simple attitude to volunteer for three months a day and then you get a fairy-tale free vacation, which I know, in Hawaii, that rests, you didn't get the money. But the question arises whether this should include and see which forms of non-equity benefit or property benefit should possibly be excluded. The second serious question is, in fact, an attempt to trace the debate that we had about the first reading, to resolve the relationship between the Voluntary Law and the special laws that regulate the issue above all actually humanitarian work. Here it has been accepted, in essence, by a general delegation, from the fact that this law will also apply to the volunteering provided for in Article 3 of this Act, so it refers to these issues which the law regulates in a section in which there are no specific regulations. I don't think that's good. Since among other things, if you take the Red Cross, Caritas and other humanitarian organisations have not only their own special law but also have a whole series of international regulations, such as the Croatian Auto Club, etc., so Protection and Rescue, which apply to them. And for this reason, I believe that the law should, in the words of Article 4, indicate that this law does not apply to those areas which are governed by specific laws. And in such a situation, paragraph 2 should now be put in place, therefore not applicable, and then paragraph 2 that these organisations can subsidically when it is not settled by any law to apply and organise actual volunteering, because it is legal persons. So it turns out that you have a state directive on the part that is prescribed which is actually difficult to implement, given the international obligations such as the Croatian Red Cross, or I don't know, Autoclub or Caritas, etc., simply difficult. But this does not mean that one form of specific volunteering related to humanitarian work that is present in such organisations, and even in the Croatian Autoclub will actually stop, although it will continue to develop and there is a whole form of training and training in this segment that is very important and should therefore be specified that these forms of volunteering and actions resulting from the essence of this humanitarian organisation would not be brought into an unpleasant situation. Secondly, it is a very interesting point in Article 2(2) where it is said that the role and importance of volunteering should be passed on to children and young people through education in educational institutions. That's good. It's just that now the question is, according to this law, that we're going to convince the Volunteering Act, and that's not the point of volunteering. This is a law governing the rules, obligations, rights and responsibilities of volunteers, volunteers, etc. But what is solidarity, humanitarian action, volunteering for why it is necessary, what benefits you provide to an individual and the social community should be resolved in particular, and in this respect, the question is in fact whether it will be an electoral teaching course that will need to be organised in primary and at least secondary schools of our ministry and how it will educate and recruit the staff who are going to work or perhaps should entrust it to those who are already doing so. You have a situation that a whole series of volunteer forms of action in primary and secondary schools actually organizes and implements now according to its law Croatian Red Cross. Why can't we... or Croatian Autoclub related to the protection of children in traffic safety, etc. etc. And I think that part should actually be worked out that way. I would therefore like to say on behalf of our club, that it is not enough to indicate that it will also be done in educational institutions of the Republic of Croatia, but that they have the right to do so by means of these humanitarian organisations, which are specifically dealt with by law. Of course, in such a situation, one who organizes and now asks the question, who organizes volunteering here. Whether this was organised by the State as a mandatory content of educational content, educational process and/or by interested organisations who wish to have their volunteers recruited in this. Because the question is, if you go through it in elementary and high school, will you get a certificate that you're a volunteer, trained as a volunteer for a particular area, for that area that this school organization can train. I think that part is inconclusive and should be worked out in the amendments before the law is passed. Fourth or fifth, now all of which, is related to Article 7. In paragraph 2, the organizer of volunteering may be any legal person and then shall be listed in accordance with the Law on Associations, the Law on Foundations and Foundations, the Labour Act, etc. Then behind that goes the next one. The organizer of volunteering can be a religious community, a public institution, a tourist community and another non-profit legal person who is organized and so, you see colleagues are all legal persons and it is not necessary to list it at all but here simply has to be said that the organizer of volunteering can be a legal person who, of course, is registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or possibly a party legal person, it should be seen further in the light of the equality of legal entities. But there's one important question left here. Whether the organizer of volunteering can be a natural person. Let's imagine the next situation. You have a craft shop, this craft shop, which, for example, produces humanitarian products as means to achieve humanitarian labour services, but it can train volunteers about how to use these funds, and crafts actions are treated differently among other things because they are not legal persons. Therefore, this should be considered before the law is passed. Because why? It is said here in Article 8. The user or user of volunteering is a natural or legal person who receives volunteer services. Now, of course the question is quite interesting, whether a legal person can be a direct user of volunteer services. Well, he can't! The legal person is an organisational legal form in which people are located, and in the end it should be put there, that employees and others in the legal person, but now an important question is raised, to what extent. To what extent? When it is a question that can outgrow that this can result directly or indirectly in profit for that legal person, then the increased benefit of those in the situation, etc. etc. This is an important issue, as it should be connected between the other and Article 11 and then to Article 3(3), because Article 3(3) states that long-term volunteering is the one that lasts more than three months and at least 20 hours a day. But now in Article 11(3), we have that it is actually forbidden to volunteer for more than six months, i.e. in paragraph 2, more than six months and more than 40 hours a week. And why would that be? That's the first one. Secondly, the question arises whether it is cumulative. Does it have to be exactly 40 hours and 6 months? And what if it's more than 20 hours, so that's, say, 25 hours, then it could take a year, two years. As it turns out, after six months, it couldn't be. I think in that segment it should be cleared up for a simple reason because we also have to take care of the users of volunteering. You'll have young volunteers, people who want old, powerless, and we already have them today, even through humanitarian organizations, who will and provide assistance to the elderly from the fact that they go out in the morning to buy them groceries, newspapers, etc. To understand them, to help them do their chores. That's why I think it's not good here right now to prescribe that it has to be. We just have to prescribe to protect volunteers when a volunteer is thought to be psychophysical and working, etc. In fact, it's either threatened or exhausted because of volunteer work, so that because of its protection, we forbid that it can possibly not pass so many and so many hours a week in a time higher than that and that than it has to be less. Because this if it's 40 hours a week then it's actually full-time. Of course, this is where this article 11 opens this question, whether or not to increase profits, you know. First of all, I believe that the provision must be read in order to gain profits from any kind, not just increases. Namely, our associations can make all the profits, but profit must not be used for other things but for the pursuit of activity. I also believe that any job that volunteers do can not lead to profit but if such profit or such profit... if it is realized, or if it is increased, that it should be excluded and financing from it the socially beneficial needs related to the humanitarian satisfaction of those who, among other things, use the work of our volunteers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A rather interesting situation is related to Article 13 where a minor under the age of 15 may be involved in performing educational and volunteering activities on the one hand, and then recall the provisions of Article 2(2) of the role and the importance of volunteering in particular... Children and youth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now the question is, if he can, he doesn't have to. What do we get if our kids just say no in elementary school? So what do we do? Then we'll have extra effort. I think that here we should actually resolve these issues and put that question back on the subject that these issues should solve. Of course, this principle of freeness is significantly disrupted by, say, this cash prize, the state volunteering award, because it's not really a free-of-charge issue anymore, it opens up the competition issue, and then the special issue related to Article 15 is raised, related to Article 16(2), where volunteering is said to be voluntary and solidarity. If it's voluntary and solidarity, then you don't expect any special reward. It's one thing to win, I don't know the State Prize, I'm not against the State Prize, but in the name of our club, let it be some kind of recognition, let it be some kind of plaque, etc., but don't give a cash prize, if we give a cash prize what we're going to do with the Croatian Red Cross or some other institutions that, for example, only during the war, provided so much food for our exiles, for our refugees who exceeded the amount of nearly six and a half billion kuna. What kind of reward should they give me, and our Croatian Red Cross doesn't even have its own building. He doesn't even have his own building, and that's how much good he's done to society. Therefore, I think that this part should be resolved in a different way because something that is not good is going to happen, that some forms of associations that work humanitarianly, which make a great contribution to volunteering interests and the needs of society that will start membership from them will move through some other forms of organization and leave this part of the useful work that we have had, organized as volunteer work, take again the red cross that has 450 thousand members. Therefore, we believe that this part should be completed, and unfortunately we have about 10 more individual remarks that would suggest that these issues should be addressed, I will only illustrate it in order to mention Article 23 where the Committee says the way and the procedure for adopting and adopts the Code. Well, the method and procedure of adoption should be laid down in the statutes, and the Code should be adopted by that committee, etc., etc. So there's still need to do this, maybe it'd be good to go into third reading, and until the third reading to get this done and fix it because there's no rush to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88012	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88013	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So it is unquestionable that almost all civilizations work for a common good of mutual assistance, advocacy for peace, advocacy for freedom, advocacy for equality are values that have in some way extended in all civilizations, all social arrangements in some way remember them, have occurred in different forms and human co-operation, solidarity, mutual assistance, feeling for one another is something that is simply something for all civilizations, all social arrangements, of course, that the modern world recognizes one different, more organised, more quality form of mutual care, taking care of one another in some way and social and social upgrades of the modern world. In Croatia, volunteering is of course recognised in different forms, it happens at various and many levels, and we at the HSS club welcome that the law regulates this area, to get close to saying to those standards on which it rests voluntarily in some developed countries, primarily Europeans who in some way entrenched their space, entrenched their country with this very volunteerism, which is often one of the very important elements or arguments when assessing what a particular society is. But what is very important and what is good to mention in Article 2 itself is how to build a society that will be on its very ground right and that will recognize the values that just now, on which volunteerism rests, which is caring for others, understanding, giving equal rights to others. That is why it is very important in Article 2(2) that this should be passed on to children, to younger ones, that preschool institutions are the foundations and places where a different world should simply be propagated, a different communication, a simple road to which a different and better quality infrastructure will be built in one society, and therefore the greatest responsibility lies in this Article 2(2). Of course, together or parallel with this, the question arises whether we today have in our educational institutions such complex things that they can look and that they can consume these values that volunteerism in the world and in Croatia clearly implies. Is it necessary to further make an effort to simply follow the speed of development that today requires the modern world from preschool education and further implants enough into children what is important to instill, and all of this is talked about by the Law on Volunteerism and in reason and in its articles tells of the values that are common, which are recognized, which are simply the heritage of the whole world, which simply no one can have any opportunity to challenge them because these values are simply universal and rests on them all that can be referred to today as the modern world and civilization that will be at human level? Of course, when we talk about the very proposal for a law in Article 7, it is very specific that levels can be organised by volunteering, which is mentioned by legal persons through those who act by other standards of that body of the state administration of units of local and regional self-government, of course, is a virtually wide field of those who can organise a volunteering system within any legal person of any other participant. It is not clear to me until the end whether it is right or not, whether it is practical to say that volunteering is prohibited to replace the work carried out by workers in accordance with the Labour Act as well as volunteering which replaces the work carried out by the contractors on the basis of the work contract. It may sound like protection, but it may be, I'll try to practically translate it to try to pollemize with this paragraph 1. In fact, today we have a whole series of organizations that act preventively, I will point out in the area of cleaning our coast, our submarines, which through early ecological associations are organized to contribute to this humanitarian work of cleaning our shores, submarines and they simply have the same working quality to say the same as professional companies dealing with environmental cleaning. So, you can if you have money to clean up an aquarium in any area beautiful of ours take a professional company that will certainly clean up your aquarium well, it'll be neat but you have to pay for it, it's very expensive. You have ecological associations that simply work to clean up a single aquarium, to bring together volunteers from all over the world, from all over Croatia, and instead of paying huge funds, I will not bid you how much, you can also bring this aquarium into order by applying those provisions of this law that speak of what you have to pay. Of course, the local unit, the local self-government unit will pay for accommodation, provide food, all together will have one event and this action will not only have a character that has successfully done the job but it also has its own educational sound, it has one social dimension, it has one dimension of events. So, you shouldn't be biting these two positions if they're hairing, I'm not saying they're hairing, but how I read can I be cut because that job is done professionally. Now, does this mean if it's done professionally and if the person involved in this job wants to report to it, but the local self-government unit has no money to pay for it, rather than to organise certain volunteer associations or eco-social societies that deal with it, does this mean that it will make a mistake and will not act by law if it does. I think it is important in the law, I say we support the adoption of this law, but these dilemmas should simply be thrown out as a dilemma so as not to improve volunteerism in Croatia's legal solutions lead to some paralysis so as to say that instead of obtaining quality in the development of volunteerism in Croatia, it is necessary not to create dangers for the development of volunteerism in Croatia. Because it is unquestionable that this form of generally recognised work is unquestionably creating a new quality that is lacking for every society and thus also for Croatian society, and therefore should be particularly sensitive when it comes to standards that we are going to trade for future volunteerism in Croatia. And I absolutely agree with the fact that underage persons should also be allowed, including those who are partially deprived of their business ability to engage in this because it is a socialization of the common society, that is to create those values that we simply seek. As for those articles dealing with the authorities responsible for the implementation of this law from the National Committee on Volunteerism to the board members and the way they are organised, I would also say that it is good that as many people as possible change on that National Committee because there is really no need for us to have a specialist sitting there for ten, fifteen years and then we will say in ten years that without him it is simply impossible that the National Committee will act. I don't think there's any need to in any way not to allow one broad possibility for everyone to participate there, especially those clearly dealing with it. Politics should absolutely stay out of this part and this part belongs to those values that politics sometimes knows little and reverse. I therefore also suggest that it be considered that Article 22 should not be re-appointed. Let them be elected, let them perform their mandate, it is not a reward but an honor to which they should be entitled and those who should come after them. So, in this way, I think that with these three questions that I have asked, I think that this law could obtain that purpose and the task that needs to be done, and that we could really put ourselves in line with those companies that have regulated these activities by law, which, by the basis of the European Council's recommendation, have done so, in line with those countries that have presented volunteerism, and have already raised themselves to a level of one general value that has a very important basis in assessing what kind of society is, whether this society is social, whether it is fair, whether the laws that are passed in that society are worth it as just and correct, whether the public's influence is strong, because by strengthening these systems, the overall public power in one society, is strengthened, and the defence that policy does not allow it to go too far. Mostly this is a law that must bring exclusive advantages to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88014	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88015	Here's Mr. Vice President one little correction to the incorrect quote. Our colleague called this law volunteerism, and it's about the Voluntary Law. Although I fully agree with him that in our country, there is a lot of volunteering and little volunteering in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88016	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Jagoda Majjski Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I mean, I wanted to make the same assumption right, because in grammatical, Semantic and any other meaning volunteering is something completely different from volunteering. And if a colleague confused volunteerism with volunteerism, then he also used two different things. I'm not sure he even knew what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88018	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS, SBH, and NDS, distinguished representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the regional party club, we are engaged in a debate on this law for one very simple reason, which is that by supporting this law we want to actually give recognition to thousands and tens of thousands of people who are doing various voluntary, free, socially beneficial jobs for the benefit of individuals, for the benefit of those who need it, for the benefit of social groups who are threatened. And for this reason it is clear that Croatia needs to pass the Voluntary Law because the very fact that Germany has brought it back to 64 years ago, and it certainly belongs to the order of the most orderly countries of Europe, and that, based on the Council of Europe's recommendations, it is brought by the last years of countries that want to be classified into modern democratic and enlightened countries, it also says that Croatia should be classified in the order of the countries that have the law. The Red Cross, sports associations, patient associations, associations of various other characters, associations that work with different religious communities and help the needy, surely deserve that their work is better defined for the simple reason that in practice, the notion of volunteering is very often mustached and exists, that it is used for different purposes of which for some purposes it will not be used in the future. It is therefore good to define the concepts of volunteering, volunteering, organizer of volunteering and user of volunteering. We think that this is a law that certainly will not be in shape or in content to determine the needs of the entire volunteering sector, but of course, in the coming years, those who are volunteers based on this law will be included in that when seen in practice the benefits they will bring and what they have not solved, when they will certainly be complemented and changed. We therefore hold that, as a club, we absolutely support the adoption of this law for the reason that it did not seem that it was the opposite for these people, to confess to them and to give them a specific way of thanking them, and therefore the regional party club will support this law and in this form in that way, if the promoter accepts certain remarks made by some colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88020	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88021	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that what we are discussing today is in fact a legal framework for a single area that functionally exists in the Republic of Croatia, but from the position of regulating the legislative framework we are editing a new area. Of course, this area cannot be perceived as being just volunteering, focusing only on helping people, but it is in the broadest sense working for the common good regardless of whether it is about protecting animals, protecting nature, volunteering in sports meetings, or really a concern that is at the heart of the interest, and it is about caring about people. So this is one law that covers all aspects that I have now stated. Since I know and contact volunteering associations, the associations are asking for a legislative framework to be adopted as soon as possible. We are aware that in such an interesting area, in one area, a very wide area should not, like the Croatian Parliament, have the ambition to adopt a legislative framework for all time but should we accept this content as proposed. Of course, through the installation of certain observations which are already in place and which may be installed in some later period, but I think it is necessary to adopt this law and the club of the Croatian Party of pensioners will vote for this law, for the adoption of this final proposal of the Voluntary Act, because we believe that a part of the legitimate remarks will be installed and arranged through sublegal acts, and the system itself should be created in walking. Therefore, there will be a national body to monitor the implementation of this law, but also to make concrete proposals to improve the system. So in any case, we in Croatia think that a pensioner's party should create a volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia according to their needs. What I would like to share with you today is one happy circumstance if I had the opportunity to get a translation of the Italian Voluntary Law so it wouldn't be a bad idea to share these experiences and see how other countries treat this matter, or how it is, that it is important to it. For example, the Framework Law on Volunteering of the Italian Republic says: "The Italian Republic recognises the social value and function of volunteering as expressions of participation, solidarity and pluralism. It promotes its development through the preservation of its autonomy and promotes the original contribution of such activity to achieving the objectives of the social, civil and cultural character that the state regulates." And he defines this activity in the following way: "A volunteering activity has to be considered a personal, spontaneous and free activity through an organisation whose volunteer was without profit and indirect and exclusively for the purpose of solidarity." Volunteer activity cannot be charged in any way and cannot be paid even by the user. The volunteer can be returned, can only be reimbursed by the costs he has actually borne for carrying out his activities within the limits set by the organisations themselves in advance. What matters is the difference between this law and the Law on Volunteering in, in the Republic of Italy is next. This law provides for the achievement, the dominant achievement of funds for the work of volunteer organisations through the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. The Italian law accurately established the economic resources from which the Voluntary Law is financed. He states: "The volunteer organisations acquire economic resources for their functioning and carry out their own activities from the contributions of members, contributions from private persons, contributions from the state and public institutions whose sole aim is to support specific and documented activities and projects, contributions from international bodies, donations and willful legacy, the return of funds stemming from the Convention. Income resulting from the marginal, commercial and commercial activities of the associations. Voluntary organisations which are not legal persons and which are registered in the registers referred to in that article may purchase the movable assets necessary to carry out their own activity. Furthermore, in the event of the disbandment, termination or suspension of volunteer organisations, regardless of their legal form of assets remaining after the end of the liquidation, it shall be transferred to other volunteer organisations operating in the same or similar sector according to the terms contained in the statutes or contracts of members or in the absence of such organisations under the provisions of the Civil Law. The Italian law also prescribes registration in the register of associations, registration in the register of associations, and states that this is a necessary condition for accessing public contributions as well as for the conclusion of conventions and for the use of tax reliefs, tax reliefs which are also in place, in the function of economic resources to finance volunteering costs. Furthermore, while our work provisions and obligations of the state body are well-arranged, I would say in a satisfactory manner. I can only say how they do it, that we have something to compare to, to see how they do it. State body for the monitoring of volunteer activity. He says: The Council of Ministers Regulation establishes, on a proposal from the Minister for Social Activities, a State Body for the Monitoring of Volunteer Activity, chaired by the Minister for Social Activities or by its representative, which consists of 10 representatives of the Organisation and the Alliance for Volunteer Activity, which operates at least 6 regions of 2 experts and 3 representatives of trade union organisations that are in most representative organisations. The body for the monitoring of volunteering activities used by staff, resources and services made available to it by the Council of Ministers Presidency shall have the following tasks: to ensure the establishment of rules of volunteer organisations and to disseminate knowledge of the activities carried out by those organisations. Promotion, research and study, research and study abroad. Provide all useful elements for the promotion, stressing for promotion and development of volunteering. Approval, this is very important, I appreciate this, this is a very important, approval of experimental projects that have, in possible cooperation with local institutions, produced volunteer organisations registered in registers and which have been designed to deal with burning social problems and to encourage the application of extremely advanced intervention methods. Further, providing support and providing advice for information and banking projects, data in the sectors of competence of this law. The publication of a three-year report on the movement of a certain phenomenon and on the state of application of national and regional regulations. Supporting the potential cooperation of regions, education initiatives and the renewal of knowledge for the provision of services. The publication of an official press release for information and promotion of other initiatives aimed at circulating news related to volunteering. The organisation of a national volunteer activity conference every three years involving institutions, groups and stakeholders, employees. The Board of Ministers’ Committee of Social Activities also established a Volunteer Activities Fund with the aim of financially supporting the projects referred to in the preceding paragraphs. So much for the exchange of experiences. I will copy this and give the lady, gentlemen of the Ministry clean, clean as a single orientation but with this review of one of our proposals with this I think our proposal for, the bill or the Final Proposal of the Law on Volunteering deserved in any case a passing and very high, high grade. What I would like to share more with you is, there are objections to this law or suggestions to this law by one of the organizers of volunteering in the Retired Union in Pula, which says: Reading from the Law has imposed several remarks on us, the conclusion that we make below: 1. The involvement of citizens in volunteering is not a mass phenomenon. In animation of potential candidates for volunteers, or volunteers, we appealed to their personal preparation and education for their humanity, the willingness to sacrifice part of their free time for the well-needed. We talked about what volunteer work contributes to his moral profile, his humanity. We did it because we felt that there was still not enough developed spirit to help people in need. It also contributed to the past state that tried to cover all different needs of the population to its institutions. The church that plays a significant role in developing volunteering "Caritas" did not do so as it does today. Therefore, we, as a volunteer organizer, have shown the need to include certain means of stimulating volunteer activities or motivating volunteer activities and the willingness to involve our members in this. And when she started working, the first group of volunteers and we and the local community waited for it to volunteer and provided social support. We can call it public praise. But there were also concrete rewards. The pensioner's party paid a group of volunteers for a one-day trip to Istria during 2006. Such means of encouragement can also be counted by attending certain events, theatre performances, and the like. One volunteer was admitted to the City Headship on March 8th. On December 5th, she spoke of volunteer activities. So these are all the details that can motivate people. A public commendation can motivate people to engage in volunteering. Furthermore, we think or think that the social usefulness and personal engagement of volunteers should always and everywhere emphasize and that is not the task of this law alone, but in general our general social task. In the practical part of volunteers, volunteers taking users to various health tests and treatments, long waitings are tiring older people, and volunteers are making it impossible for them to carry out their other family obligations, as waiting eats their practical day. Volunteers should have a card that would give a certain advantage to the performance of the job on such occasions. Not only as a registered person, but also to give a certain advantage to the provision of such assistance. The issue of choice of volunteer aid users arises as a problem in concrete practice. There should be some indication in the law or in the sublaws. We in Pula, therefore used and used social, health, family and economic criteria. The dominant criterion is impotence, age and loneliness, or single households. As next, there was a question of a team that would decide to grant volunteer assistance, its width and duration. For the sake of practicality and efficiency, the team is made up of patronage sisters. If necessary, the personal physician of primary health care and the head of volunteering in the person of the social worker. It is certain that there is still a need to include welfare authorities that are now consulting from case to case. The local community, the Red Cross and local committees, in some other circumstances and with other volunteering users, should also be included. The team would be different and bigger. The purpose of this appeal is to warn you of that question. In practice, the social and health profiles of volunteers must also be taken into account. We have concluded that our volunteers or volunteers are trained only to work with mentally healthy users. That they understand the role of volunteering and be willing to cooperate rationally using the benefits of volunteering or volunteering. That wasn't always the case. Someone thinks he's got a housekeeper, someone tried to live up to what the volunteers thought was very negative. Finally, the choice of volunteers and volunteers is not a matter that happens on its own. It is necessary to comply with an easy to measure rule that a person has never been in conflict with the law, but surely that is not all that defines a volunteer person. Is someone honest, steady, balanced, tolerated, communicative we can't know in advance, and we don't have an easy way to determine that. However, these qualities of volunteers should be taken into account. So these are valuable suggestions, valuable experiences that I also wanted to share with you today to see how this is happening on the ground. I thank and declare that we support, once again we support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88022	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps here, just a few short observations, given that a lot has been said and in his own words as colleague Mato Arlovic spoke on behalf of the SDP club. The social value of volunteering is truly immeasurable. We need to have such a law that's going to encourage rather than stall. It's something I think must be the key to making the law. That is why there is still room for some of the things the colleague Arlovic spoke about very specifically, to be done in this direction. These are how some provisions are laid down and I believe in the best and the best and the suggestions of certain associations regardless of their particular interests. But this law must be so wide that it covers all these situations, that it does not prevent citizens and even from old age, before they are old enough to engage in just that one common good. A colleague Arlović also mentioned here, perhaps in those most difficult times of our Red Cross which is so, these are people, and then associations that perform so self-secretly, even when it seems that some times are so difficult to wonder where humanity is going. It is because of this small individual contribution that each of them are gathered together into certain associations or even to work far from the public, but every day with that little drop of goodness grabs such a waterfall that they really provide hope for something that is good, in one progress, to improve all of us. So here's what I'm appealing to the proposings to look at these provisions that, on certain committees, there have been detailed speeches about which they are very restrictive in the sense that they are in some way limiting engagement. So, even in this time where we don't have this situation normised yet, where these situations, if they were to be subsumed through the existing law, would simply be numbed or the amount and many of these people who are working in this way today. I know that society, and even the state, must protect itself from those individuals who, under the cloak of God's volunteering, could destroy into some institutions where they could be, their work would not be supervised and possibly caused any damage. So in order to do so, it is some kind of precautionary measure that is certainly necessary and welcome. But the law must be such, so designed to be encouraged precisely in terms of this public engagement. We see that many Western countries are precisely because of this and especially America which is not social, which is not socially sensitive, which does not have that social tradition as Europe, and on our own and our country, because many things that have been good in some kind of conceptions have been abolished, so where people as a matter of fact are not only selfish and selfish but above all being a community, there will be multitudes and societies, so where individuals find the meaning of their existence, the meaning of their lives precisely in altruism, in giving themselves, and at the heart of not only their free time but also at the expense and of their time that could otherwise be used in an income way. So, such work is not only important in this segment if we look closely at it through this law now, it is important for our entire spiritual recovery both for state and social other structures, that there is no progress without joint action and without solidarity between people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88024	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88025	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft Voluntary Law has been quality prepared and has included all relevant facts as well as the experience of countries where volunteering has been traditionally developed and volunteers are legally protected. The improvement of the position and role of volunteers in society and the evaluation and promotion of political and legislative solutions that will encourage volunteering has been incorporated into a series of Council of Europe documents. The 2002 UN Assembly Resolution also recommends that countries create encouraging legal and other frameworks for the work of volunteering organisations. In particular, in recent years, the issue of volunteering has been put on the European and global level, with emphasis on the transnational and educational role of youth volunteering. An important issue that regulates, regulated by this law, is the volunteering of persons under the age of 18. They are enabled to participate actively in social processes, personal contributions and humanitarian activities but are particularly protected from exploitation or provided with special additional protection. Additional protection is also prescribed for volunteers of partially deprived business abilities who can volunteer only with the written consent of the custodian and the competent social care centre. I am pleased that the law pays special attention to sensitive groups of volunteering users, children, disabled persons, persons with developmental difficulties, old and powerless persons, sick persons or persons who are completely or partially deprived of their business abilities. Volunteers working with these users must possess knowledge, experience and ability to work with these groups. The need for education as well as the need to elect volunteers is also highlighted. It has already been said many times that volunteering should be promoted because it is an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia that leads to the active involvement of persons in social events and the development of a more human and equal democratic society. I think that's exactly what the government recognized and what this bill shows. The first debate on this issue shall be incorporated into constructive remarks. The bill's proposed quality and will be a real incentive to involve more volunteers in social activities than so far according to research means 5 to 10%. The current non-regulating of this matter must have prevented some people from getting involved in volunteering and some from being volunteering. This is taught when a little more thinks about volunteering, about the essential assumptions for quality volunteer work, while preventing volunteer work from being used to abuse and acquire and increase profits by volunteers. The proposed law provides legal protection and prescribes the rights and obligations of all entities involved in volunteering and creates conditions for a favourable volunteering environment. For all these reasons, I propose that the Final Proposal of the Voluntary Law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88026	Replica, the esteemed representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague said a lot of things about this Volunteering Act. I'd still like to add something. At this truly time of globalisation when we are set up an imperative of profit at all costs, when workers receive salaries of 2 thousand or thousands and a half kuna or get them irregularly so that their owners can get rich, when we are forced to think that it is actually a material gain that it is only important then certainly one bright point is volunteering. I'm here in the County, and I'm looking at people in my area who are really without compensation with a lot of love and patience doing a lot of volunteer work. And I think that's really what needs to be encouraged and that this law will also do so and will give meaning to this important segment of civil society. I watched children who could also say they volunteered in the Red Cross in some way and I said other associations that help women and the troubles that are exposed to violence, which help different people with special needs and I always admired them for how they did it with sacrifice and love. And that is why we too need to do everything to encourage such species of volunteering and all other aspects of civil society alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88028	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88029	Dear colleague Lelic, I think it's a good thing you recognized in your midst volunteer work, which you recognize the value of volunteering. And I think it's also necessary and well that we all recognize the value of that work. I also have to say that there are a lot of volunteers in my Valpostina too, who spend their time and their efforts to help individuals, as well as society as a whole. I think that we should continue to encourage, create a positive climate to get as many people involved in volunteering as possible, so volunteering, and just by discussing today and by making this law we think that we are creating really one real legal framework and that these people get involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88030	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what's already been said today about this law, and especially in the first debate when we agreed that the law is necessary because it's an activity that's being carried out for the greater good. As we have already heard in countries where volunteering has been developed volunteers are protected by law, so also in various declarations and in what the countries of Western Europe have defined by a law which is precisely this issue and regulated. With us organized volunteering is carried out through the work of humanitarian, voluntary associations within the most often religious, political, humanitarian organisations. With the development of civil society, the establishment of associations, and today more than 30,000 have been registered with us, 124 of them are according to the register of foreign associations. There are also different volunteers from educational, social workers, health professionals who provide different forms of assistance. This is especially evident in associations dealing with the help of victims of violence, psychosocial assistance of children and young people, all forms of violence, the fight against addiction. We must mention thousands of volunteers who helped to house the exiles and refugees during the Homeland War. Without them, sometimes in areas, and from one such area, I come from the City of Sisak could not even live a normal life. So thousands of people we don't even know the names of at the time helped to keep civilian life normal. Unfortunately, in our case, volunteering is all here until this bill I would say it is declarative and to an insufficient extent, as recognised as a general good activity. Of course, this large number of associations that speak about people who work in them, who can contribute to the survival and survival of the organizations themselves involved in the work in as many as possible, and include an increasing number of volunteers. In the first reading, there was an objection to the provisions on who can volunteer, so the article 10 is specifically set out in this second reading in the proposal, who can be and do volunteer work. As I first read the law, I pointed out that sensitizing the public is still the most important thing for our society. Unfortunately, sometimes people respond poorly to volunteer work. The shift is visible in the establishment of these volunteer centres in Zagreb, the largest cities of Split, Rijeka and Osijek where they certainly do much to include as many young people as possible in volunteer work. The particularly important positive effect that in young people causes personalities and encourages them to make a personal contribution, and humanitarian action is precisely this form of volunteering. Such forms need to be started in primary school. I'd say through some games and workshops even in kindergarten. I also mentioned a positive example of our neighbouring country of Slovenia where a certain form of volunteering was introduced in primary and secondary schools as mandatory. Students in Slovenia must spend one day in the school year on volunteer work and most often on health, social protection, help the weak and powerless, children and adults with special needs. So this law is a good legislative basis. But I don't think that's the end of it. It should be because it also adopts implementing rules that will monitor the implementation of this law. But in the end, I have to go back to schools, associations and all institutions that not only have to involve as many people as possible, as many young people, students in this particular field of work, but also have to point out what good society brings. But we can't say that there's nothing going on with us. Here, on the occasion of the International Volunteer Day in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Third National Conference on Volunteering is also organized. The theme was volunteering and youth. I volunteer. I make a good choice. So the National Foundation for Civil Society Development followed and organised these activities. All primary schools have been invited to volunteer under the title of what we can do for our community – our heartprint in which students have shown how to help some target groups of society in their local community. 62 elementary schools were included, and at the end of this whole action, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports awarded awards and titles to the schools of community friends. So maybe for this situation one small, one small activity but welcome to primary schools right now. But we have to insist, and I'll end up with it. This law is a good basis but it should also be a reason for implementing regulations. So volunteering as a form can and must be included in both primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88032	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88033	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88034	Excuse me, excuse me! When did you see it? Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic. And I didn't see it. You are, I am, when the honourable representative is finished, and it is not difficult for you to lift it until I see it. He didn't even see... Maybe that second. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88035	Can we?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88036	Dear Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88037	Here, thank you. Namely, a respected colleague mentioned a large number of young volunteers, and I would like to point out here that there is a large group of young volunteers who have become volunteers by force of opportunity, and that is a large number of young people who avoid military service and thus approach civil service of the military deadline. And here it should be noted clearly that it is a shame because of the environment that is around us that is not quite so stable but there should be an example of Germany. In Germany, young people who serve the civilian deadline are almost exclusively in nursing homes, homes for disabled people and disabled children and the like, while young people can find these by municipalities, cities, porters, schools. So it's just everywhere except where it's supposed to be. Well, I think we should certainly pay a lot of attention here because the number is huge. It's already tens of thousands I think in a few years of these young people who can contribute far more to their volunteering, compulsory volunteering than they do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88038	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88039	Thank you. Well, here I agree with my colleague that actually civil service of the military deadline has kind of grown into volunteering, a form of volunteering, and I totally agree when it comes to this topic that young people who opt for civil service of the military should still now work in these health institutions, homes for the old and powerless. So where they can literally get involved, help people, special groups in our community. I agree it's unnecessary for young people to do some office work. But fellow Markovanovic, in one school, in one educational institution such a young boy who serves a military deadline and works at a porter, so at the entrance to school he is welcome, he is welcome, perhaps not an office or some... Jobs, but those where security control is the entrance or passage, but I agree that when it comes to deciding that young people serve a military term in civil service to do so exclusively in such institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88040	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's as my predecessors will also point out that I support this Final Proposal of the Voluntary Law. I'm especially happy to accept it. I'm glad you accepted the remarks from the last debate. I am sorry that you may not have accepted these remarks by colleagues Arlovic regarding education and introduction to volunteering school, however, as this proposal has come absolutely to welcome. Volunteerism offers, in fact, an alternative division of work and enables young people to work for the community at the same time by developing and learning new skills applicable to the market system. The participation of young people in volunteer projects encourages their later involvement in any similar projects. The inclusion of young people in local projects that contribute to the improvement of the community refreshes and refreshes their sense of responsibility for this community and the values of the civil sector at all. But not only do young people participate in volunteering, volunteering is part of more or less of every civilization and society. Definitely in its broadest sense, it is as a non-profit, non-payment and non-economic activity to which individuals contribute to the well-being of their neighbours, their communities and their entire society, which appear in various forms, from traditional customs, mutual self-help, to organised community action in times of crisis, as counterpart Roksandić pointed out. Volunteering is also... many NGOs, professional associations, trade unions, etc. whose action depends on the efforts of volunteers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The role of volunteers is important for many charities where they are partly responsible for the work of the organization by contributing to their expertise and ability, but also by saving money. However, we must not forget volunteers are not only present to represent cheap labour, but by their presence they contribute to the achievement of the existing opportunities of the organisation and the creation of new ones. One of the key features of volunteers is their belief that it is globally starting with the local, i.e. that economic and social progress does not grow from the top to the bottom, but from the local and widest layers up. Volunteers work for organizations and institutions for various reasons, out of altruism, to help people who need help, to be useful to the community as well as their own interest to want to meet new people, learn new skills, or in the extreme line of leisure. Regardless of the motives, it is important to stress that volunteering enables a wide variety of needs, and how important volunteering is today best said and the fact that in 2001, in the united nations, it was declared an international year of volunteers. It must be said that this bill, despite its very high quality, was very late and the law itself could have been passed much earlier. Let's just say that our close countries have long been arranged for us, and we know that our close countries have long been regulated by the laws of volunteering. Germany has already arranged the Law on Voluntary Social Employment, already passed in '64. In the year, Italy passed the first Voluntary Law in '91. And so far, there are several laws that regulate this area. 15 years later, the Republic of Croatia comes in through a large door of human altruism, which has always existed in the people, but only these days did the government recognise it as a socially important issue that needs to be regulated. However, it should be said that the Final Bill was made very correct. It should certainly highlight and commend the final and precise regulation of all the rights that a person as a volunteer has, such as a volunteer book, education, the right to compensation for the costs incurred by volunteering, but also protection when volunteering, i.e. meeting volunteers with all possible dangers that he may face when volunteering. This is extremely important, since so far many volunteers have been maximumly exploited, and for this they have not received any compensation. By entering into force of this Act, each volunteer will be recorded in a volunteer book, i.e. by issuing a volunteer certificate. As regards changes made for second reading, it is certainly necessary to commend the application of the amendment proposal for Article 10. Namely, groups such as children, persons with disabilities, old and powerless persons etc. They are very sensitive groups and must be protected. In this direction, I welcome a provision that prohibits working with such groups and those who have been treated for psychiatric treatment, treatment for addiction, or have committed a serious crime. This provision is of paramount importance, especially when we consider all the horrors that occurred in Beznovoj Caritas where, under cover of childcare with developmental difficulties, there were also sensitive groups over them who performed various acts. What is saddest is that these actions are most likely not to be all responsible as they should be. Due to such cases, it is important to disable the situation in the beginning and, in principle, to do so, I commend it. I also commend a provision that includes volunteering and its importance in educational and educational work with children in schools and other institutions. Volunteer work was recently reserved for us to call it suckers and utopians, better to lie down for free than to work for free was a common reaction to the mention of volunteering. According to a survey by the national foundation in Croatia, 5% of citizens volunteer, say Ivo Pilar Institute, said the data is 11%. The collected data indicate a low frequency of volunteer engagement several times a year which bounces off the world average. For example, in the United States, every average teenager volunteers for three and a half hours a week. With us, this figure for most young people is still unattainable for a simple reason why they do not understand the meaning of volunteering. If one of the little ones explained to them and told them about the benefits of volunteering how to make society and for them themselves and in the Republic of Croatia, the number of volunteers would be significantly higher. What they also do in other countries, especially in the United States, is volunteering for higher education institutions, especially when asking for scholarships. That went to the point where, for example, at Harvard in seeking a scholarship and even enrolling a much more important item volunteering for community well-being than an item involving an average rating. Unfortunately, in Croatia, such things are not yet worth enough to qualify as a benefit when entering colleges, but it is certainly something to keep in mind for the future dear proposings. What is all the praiseworthy achievements of the final draft of the Voluntary Law, according to which it is extremely well seen how this proposal was done in cooperation with NGOs involved in volunteering. This should be a lesson for future similar laws to be adopted in agreement with directly interested ones, because such proposals are more qualitative than those that the Government does on its own. However, no provisions have been included in the final proposal to address existing problems and to which I have warned in my first reading. Since volunteering is the phenomenon most often taking place at one local level, it is incomprehensible that the proposal failed to regulate the role of local and regional self-government bodies or to regulate their responsibilities relating to volunteering. I also believe that the creation of a database would be extremely helpful in volunteering and monitoring for people who volunteer and special databases for persons who want to volunteer and for companies and organisations who want to be involved in volunteer work. This would make the volunteering process much simpler and on the other hand, people who want to volunteer or legal persons who need volunteers in one place could find what they are looking for. Let us not forget how volunteering reduces the negative consequences of unemployment, enables an individual to actively engage in the community and build professional status, personally and professionally empowers the individual, ensures the expansion of business contacts with the unemployed and rarely leads directly to the workplace. We support this law, or I extend, as my club has supported the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88042	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Majdenic, Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in her presentation, a colleague touched and volunteered in schools, in primary and secondary schools and colleagues, Roksandić was the same before, so I find it particularly important, so she would add something. I actually don't think we can say that children can volunteer in kindergartens, but that we should certainly point to the needs of such work to help their peers if they are disabled children, to help their householders, grandparents if they are sick and powerless. This means from the smallest legs we develop this feeling of help and volunteering. At school it is certainly necessary to introduce the usual or mandatory volunteering in primary and secondary schools, just to encourage them to do the same in later life. And it would certainly once again highlight this need for volunteering and the need of all associations to actually be a civil society dealing with the assistance of any of the vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88044	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88045	I especially pointed out these details about how it would be important to do that education back in the school days, of course I don't mean kindergarten but in school time, for one reason volunteering is something that is actually a habit that comes a little bit or less. This information that today, three and a half hours each teen in America volunteers a week of course, didn't come from today to tomorrow. It was created as a result of a long-term experience and a tradition of volunteering. So, by educating in elementary school, and I am therefore sorry that my colleague Arlovic's remarks from the first reading have not been accepted. It shouldn't be teaching in terms of hours, but volunteering education I think it would be good to be in primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88046	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've pointed out, fellow Members, that the jurisdiction of local self-government is not defined in this law. However, there is one thing that delights me with this law and I hope it will be so. That finally these mayors and mayors who boast about volunteering will finally admit that they are not volunteering and that they will invent some new expression, because they do not volunteer if they receive any compensation for it. And I hope that story in the media about volunteering some, many mayors and mayors will finally stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88048	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88049	Thank you very much. Here, I'm glad my colleague Kapraljevic called you on the subject. Something of course she's not directly related to the law. But I'll only tell you one thing, that it might be. Of course, it's not about volunteering in places when you're elected to a representative body somewhere. It is certainly about the work for which you receive compensation, and this fee has nothing to do with the fee spoken of in the law, which must be less than a diary. So, there's no talking at all, it's not about volunteering at all. It's something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88050	Thank you. It's over. State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88051	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all the distinguished ladies and gentlemen for the discussion of this proposed law. I'm glad all the club representatives accepted this law in principle with certain small remarks. And I stress that all these remarks that I think more of the nature of the implementing rules will be settled in the implementing regulations that will be drawn up by the basis of this law. Let me just look at the civil service of the military and some other things. We need to distinguish between the things this law doesn't apply to. It does not apply to activities such as voluntary giving, volunteering, or voluntary giving of blood. Or, say, on duty and that's civilian military service. It's a duty that's regulated by another regulation. I also draw to the idea, I think it was said by the HNS Club that the Council of Europe had already suggested in 2001 that one such law be passed. Here, he's in front of us now, and I hope we get him now. As far as the State Prize is concerned, it was introduced after the first reading only because of the introduction of one of the highest recognitions that the Republic of Croatia grants for volunteering and for contributing to the promotion of volunteering and other volunteering activities to all those involved. Therefore, I think it is one extremely good thing that happened here in the second reading and that it is actually in some way supporting the promotion and sensitization of both the public and the entire Croatian regiment for this volunteering activity. I must also say that this law has been done in accordance with the International Centre for Non-profit Law which has developed a comparative analysis of European legal systems and practices regarding volunteering. And I'm going to read you an article here, only part of article 18, 19, which, I don't know, I don't think anyone has looked back on that which is now the first time in the Republic of Croatia, which has never been organised in some way to access this volunteering, this extraordinary humanitarian goal. It means that the body of the state, the body responsible for the implementation of this law, means the central body of the state administration in which intergenerational solidarity lies. Among other things, it says that it collects data on the number of volunteers, the number of volunteers in the Republic of Croatia and the number of citizens from the Republic of Croatia who volunteer abroad as well as other data on the basis of annual reports from the organisers of volunteering. That's not how it's been so far. If you asked someone how many of these people it was hard that we could get one exact information. In this way, it is structured and introduced, as in other countries, in a single order prescribed by law and by those implementing rules that follow. Normally there is also the National Committee for the Implementation of Volunteering, which is the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia whose work is public and which implements measures and activities with a view to promoting and further developing volunteering. So I'm thinking that I'm making a proposal here in the assembly that means this law that's here before you to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88052	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. The extension is at 15:00 with the 7th item of the agenda Final draft law on the approval of the Treaty on Change, Complementary and Accession of the Central-European Free Trade Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88053	So now we're going to the Final Proposal of the Voluntary Law, second reading. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, 15 abstentions were passed the proposed Voluntary Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88054	We're continuing the session. So we move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Final draft law on the confirmation of the treaty on change and complementarity and accession to the Central European Free Trade Treaty, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 676 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Tajana Kesic-Sapic, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88055	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Change and Complementary and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty CEFTA 2006 signed by representatives of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia, Romania, Serbia and Kosovo on 19 December 2006 in Bucharest. At first, I would like to point out that we consider this contract a major success of Croatian economic diplomacy. After a long debate on the future of CEFTA, a Croatian initiative has been adopted to just expand and modernise CEFTA as a framework for further liberalisation of trade in the region. Therefore, in Bucharest on 6 April 2006, a joint declaration by the prime minister was agreed to open negotiations on amending and supplementing and joining the Central European Free Trade Treaty by the end of May 2006. The main objective of this Treaty is to unify the existing level of liberalisation of trade achieved through a network of bilateral free trade contracts in a single contract. Furthermore, the objectives of this Treaty are: further increase in external trade, in particular exports among the countries of the region, removal of barriers to trade, improvement of conditions to promote investment, gradual opening of the public procurement market and conditions of competition, and the provision of adequate protection of intellectual property rights. Unlike the basic CEFTA Treaty of 1992 which was not fully in line with the provisions of the CEFTA 2006 Treaty, the contract includes modern provisions fully in line with the rules of the World Trade Organisation wishing to assist non-member countries of that organisation to adapt their trading systems to global trade rules as soon as possible. In addition to the usual provisions on free trade, the text of this Treaty covers some new areas of cooperation such as: strengthening cooperation in the field of trade in services and encouraging and protecting investments. An important CEFTA newspaper in 2006 is also a detailed procedure for resolving disputes including arbitration, and in order to ensure the best implementation of the contract as well as the establishment of the CEFTA Secretariat as a small administrative body which will be technical support for the work of the Joint Committee in charge of the supervision and implementation of this Treaty. This Treaty will enter into force on the 30th day following the submission of the fifth instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval by CEFTA depositaries, so to speak, of the Republic of Croatia. I note that the 2006 CEFTA contract has been ratified by Albania, Montenegro and... Kosovo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, by replacing thirty-one bilateral free trade agreement containing a series of exceptions and restrictions that represent barriers to free flow of goods, capital services with one multilateral contract will take a significant step towards strengthening economic ties and increasing trade between them, as well as encouraging investment in CEFTA member states. From the new CEFTA contract, the Republic of Croatia expects primarily a further increase in exports to contract signatories and a better position of Croatian businessmen in those markets. We are convinced that the Republic of Croatia, as the most economically developed country in the region, will achieve significant economic benefits under the new CEFTA. Increase exports and production, attract foreign investments and ultimately achieve greater economic growth both in Croatia and in the region as a whole. At the same time, we are convinced that this treaty will also fulfil its task of preparing the countries of the region for membership in the European Union in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this Act and by acting in force of the Treaty on Change and Supplement and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, we have created a framework for a stronger performance of Croatian companies and economic operators in the markets of the Southeast European countries, and now it is up to entrepreneurs to make the opportunity to increase exports in the best way possible by their knowledge and business experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88056	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. I ask Zdenko Babic-Petrichevic to listen carefully to Mr Caine now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88057	I don't want to talk about court like Mr. Cervar says we'll talk about it tomorrow. Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, the distinguished gentlemen of the House of Representatives, that's what I'd like to make a joke at first, what our destiny is. When Croatia cannot join the European Union, then it can go to small and large Yugoslavia. I'm clearly kidding. This is an economic agreement. This is a CEFTA deal. CEFTA includes the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Kosovo plus Moldova. Let's get this straight. He's not afraid of IDS of any economic agreement. In fact, we're for free trade. If they were opponents of the agreement, they would also be against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Why? The Republic of Croatia, like this, exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina a billion and $310 million. Import from Bosnia 600 million dollars. Plus it means on the Croatian side 710 million dollars. We're exporting $516 million to Serbia. We import $227.3m from Serbia plus on the Croatian side $289m. Unfortunately, I couldn't get the information for Albania. We're exporting two and a half million dollars to Moldova. We're importing $5.7 million. So minus $3.2 million. We are exporting $83 million to Macedonia. We're importing $179 million minus $96 million. However, when we look at it at last year's level, Croatia is making a surplus of $946 million on the market. Maybe more. Or what it looks like in the first three months of 2007? In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia made $333m. We imported 166 million dollars in that same period. So in Bosnia space we export 12.7% of our goods. We're only importing 3%. We exported $129 million to Serbia. We imported the first three months of $64.9 million. We exported $25.6 million to Montenegro. We only imported one and a half million dollars. We exported to Macedonia in the first three months 25.5 million dollars. We've imported 48.7 million dollars. In Moldova, we exported 0.3 million dollars, imported 1.6 and exported $5.6 million to Albania, and imported 0.8 million dollars. So in the first three months, we've achieved a $240 million surplus on that market. Here's exactly why a deal like this should be supported. Within Croatia, the greatest benefit from the agreement will be clearly those of Croatia's most exported counties. It's the City of Zagreb. It's the County of Istria. It is also interesting that the biggest investments of Croatian companies at this time are no less than in the Republic of Serbia and understandably removing money safely in Switzerland. So our tycoons invest most in Serbia and Switzerland. It is interesting that these Croatian investors in Serbia have said Croatian tycoons who have come to everything they have come to in the early 1990s. We also know why when they might have been hugging nationalists. But the money has its own logic and is drilling there they would say Serbs where even the burgion won't. The war is behind us. It's investment time. It's investment time. It's trade time, and sports events, here we see what happened down in Sinj, etc. What clearly pains a man is that people who have been smuggling in the 1990s don't know weapons, oil, drugs, food, etc. If we don't institutionalize the trade, what do we do? We encourage smuggling, encourage crime. Although clearly the mafia's national omen has never been a problem in the early 1990s or these years. Unfortunately, it is not a problem for them, nor for customs, nor for the police, nor for our courts, nor for their problems, nor for the State's Attorney's Office, nor for the SCOTT. They do everything in sixteen, and so they may be in both future and among other things to prevent such agreements. What about CEFTA? Like this. If we gave the representatives of Serbia 12 points at the Eurovision song, let me have no objection, then we have no reason to be against CERTA either. These agreements are in some way an opportunity for these spaces to be better understood, better economic, transport-related, better tourist values and finally that's what I know they might get to know better. And finally, these agreements I would dare say the best cures of this war frustration and war wounds. It is clear that no one in Croatia can forget or forget about Vukovar, must forget about 13000 murdered young men. But here's one France and Germany working truly today. The first departure of one called sarcosia outside the country was either in Berlin today, after 50 years. Okay. But it seems to me that this is what they've been working with honestly and economically since '45. Here we are and the Italians have fought bloody since '41. By '45. Well, with the Italians today, we've got the biggest trade, and we've left them 50% of the banking market. It's the same thing I'm guessing with the Russians and the Finns, the Americans, the Japanese, etc. The Japanese and the Americans. In the preamble to this document in Article 1, we see that Kosovo is not represented by the government in Belgrade but by the temporary administration of the United Nations in Kosovo as said here in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. I don't know how Belgrade sees it, but it seems that some of the processes are inexorable to what Condolis Rais is talking about and that stability in the Balkans will not be achieved for some time, unfortunately, whatever is going on down there. And that is why Croatia needs to join the European Union. Finally, all the countries that have entered the European Union have profited from this and I want to believe deeply that this will happen with the Republic of Croatia as well. I view the European Union as a league of football champions. We know we're not gonna win the Cup, but you also know it's better to play in that league than to be out of that league. We all know that either Dinamo or Hajduk won't win the Cup, but when a Barcelona comes to Split or Zagreb, Milan comes, Manchester comes, I don't know Bayern. It is immediately 4 or 5 million kunas in their register, and usually it is a good football game and then it is a real party. Now be against the European Union! And that's why I'm saying we have no reason to be either against this agreement. We have no reason to be against CEFTA. CEFTA won't bring us back to Yugoslavia, but free trade can personally want to help us in these markets. It would not be bad if we were to perform in these markets together with Slovenian companies and not be afraid of me saying the Slovenian referendum, especially if we explain to Slovenians what benefit they achieve on the Croatian market. Pragmatic as they are, they would never agree to it or vote for such a referendum. What are the objectives of CEFTA? Here it is said on page 12 and 13 to unite in one contract an existing level of liberalisation of trade achieved through a network of bilateral contracts. So all this stuff that we're talking about here today is kind of written down in some document. Further improve the conditions for encouraging investment including direct foreign investment, expand trade in goods and services, and strengthen investment in fair, clear, fixed, predictable rules, remove barriers, and trade disturbances and facilitate the movement of goods in transit, and the movement of goods, services between parties and not listing all these further objectives. Like the European Union, as we all know, a major capital project. We know it started there 50 and some with steel. The capital today is present in Croatia to a greater or smaller extent today, it is present in part and in Serbia, however, to a much smaller extent in Macedonia or Bosnia and he no longer wants to be held back. That's why he needs CEFTA, not to cross the border every 50 or less miles. I said through that logic we will have the interest of hiring people and paying these companies taxes, investing here, etc., and the greatest benefits will be given in Croatia once again, those who export the most, Zagreb, Istria. Fearing for agricultural products, I believe that there is no such thing as a problem. Croatia sees more exports of agricultural products to these countries than imports. Agrokor, for example, invests in Serbia as Croatia's leading corporation. It is not the case that a Serbian company should invest such a type in Croatia. Tomorrow, Lactalis, TDR wanted to do so, although exports today were just a list of data, $23.9m of cigarettes on the Serbian market, certainly 50th and more on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, etc. And that's how it goes, that's the other way around. The truth is, probably one Todorovic will bring goods into his business network from Serbia, etc., but we can actually help farmers in this country the most if we grant them land, if we give them loans to get equipment and machines, if we guarantee them the purchase of these agricultural products, build wholesalers, build that small processing industry with incentives, etc. And if we guarantee the export of those products, which we will, among other things, be one of these legal proposals on CEFTA. On page 15 of this material, Article 8 literally states the import duty suspension, the parties will abolish all import duties, all duties having equivalent effect of that import fiscal nature in trade between the parties on the date of entry into force of this contract on all products except those subject to bilateral benefits which are now indicated that I am not reading them, in Appendix 2. For the products clearly listed in Appendix 2, all import duties with equivalent effect, all import duties, of the fiscal nature in trade between the parties will gradually be reduced and suspended within the transitional period ending on 31 December 2008 and according to the schedule set out in that Annex. So all these products will also be released in 31.12.2008, but VAT will be paid, so one and investment activity to which other taxes will be paid can also be profited. For the end, whatever the government is, this type of agreement would ultimately have to be accepted. There simply isn't much room for this government or for any future government or government of any kind. The issue of war, the issue of succession for ex-Yugoslavia, will be dealt with in a different way. I appeal that the succession is being speeded up or finished as soon as possible, and since it will not be completed soon then it is clear that the time is working, that it is traded that I don't know horses, sings at Eurovision and that a good neighbourly policy is clearly being conducted towards all neighbours and that we try to develop tourism, etc. Not forgetting what happened from 91 to 95 by respecting our own clearly because that is how we use opportunities to earn something in other markets. So with these words, and given that last year we had a surplus of over $950 million on those markets, this year there will be a sure surplus on the Croatian side of over a billion dollars I think this accession contract as we call it a Central European Free Trade Treaty, so CEFTA should be accepted because it can benefit the country most in that area that is currently the most economically developed, socially most stable and this is today between God knows what kind of role model, namely the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88058	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Caine who said that Sinj was the host of some suspicious types who had acquired their wealth by selling drugs, smuggling, and other wicked acts. That's just not true. In Sinj was organized an international alpine race, an international alpine competition, horse racing and nothing else, and I do not allow my colleague Cain to throw himself at the city of Sinj, the proud town of Sinj and the Cetin region.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88060	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88061	Thank you very much. Mr. Cain said there was no concern for farmers and for agriculture. Unfortunately, that quote is not correct. There is concern for farmers and agriculture especially those who deal with primary agricultural production, because we need to know that in this part of today, as regards the price of only two products, which is corn and mandarin, and everyone else is far cheaper on these other markets, so this fear exists, I will have time to elaborate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88062	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88063	Mr. President. My colleague Cain is not correct, and it is not to be said in a joke that Croatia is returning to either large or small Yugoslavia. We can discuss cooperation and economic and social issues, and everyone has their opinions on this. But I will remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 141 paragraph 4 which reads, and yet the Constitution has not changed, and I hope we will not change it because we have defeated a coalition power that will no longer come into force in the Croatian Parliament. The decision on the association of the Republic of Croatia is taken in a referendum on most of the votes of the total number of voters in the Croatian state. Dot! ... So let not a Croat of Istria speak what he says. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88064	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88065	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a real pleasure to see such important economic topics cause special attention in the Croatian Parliament, it is indeed the best way to prove this half-empty hall. That's the first one. Secondly, I think it is very important to point out that CEFTA has nothing to do with restoring any Yugoslavia new or old. If we want to banish our old good practice, then we turn them into political trivialities that we've been discussing for too long, too, and the essence of the problem goes around. It happens to us as a result of such good or bad customs something that we really don't want to do. Today I think we have a serious agreement on the agenda and therefore allow for a few words about it. By signing a joint declaration on the new CEFTA, the current regional economic co-operation, which was based on a network of 30 bilateral contracts that were mutually different and incompatible, etc. on free trade is replaced by a single multilateral contract established with the aim of defining and functioning a single market, the markets of the new CEFTA. It's certainly an opportunity, but it's also a challenge. What's really gonna happen is we're just gonna see who wins, who loses. In any case we can say for this kind of game as very often in the economy and other fields of science says it is a game with zero sum, as much as one gets, the other will unfortunately have to lose. It is indisputable that this area of the integrated market Southeast Europe offers many numerous opportunities and we hope that this will just happen with the Republic of Croatia as statistics show the Republic of Croatia in this area indeed has a whole series of comparative advantages, advantages that today are reality, but advantages that do not have to be given forever. In any case, homogenising this economic space is the goal of those who have established this economic regional framework of cooperation and in which the Republic of Croatia and especially the Croatian government and especially the Croatian prime minister played an important role, I would say almost a key role. However, homogenising economic space in one such way I would say an unhomogeneous political space with different turbulences recent conflicts will not be easy or easy and we need to be aware of it and we need to take care of it. Of course, the game in this economic area is a challenge for regional players, for large Croatian companies that have proven their competitiveness and success not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the wider regional space "Agrokor", "Podravka", "Dalkovod" etc. have a real opportunity in this area to ensure their further economic growth, improve their balances, in the end all these should have positive effects on the growth of gross national income in the Republic of Croatia, but it will also be an opportunity and a challenge for those best, but it can also be a threat to those who are not good enough, who have not been restructured in time, who have not understood in time all of what one such new free trade space, such a turbulent political environment carries with them in the future. The simplest thing is to stress clearly the Republic of Croatia has the opportunity to confirm and affirm its leading economic strength and role in this region through stronger exports to this area and thus speed up its own economic growth and development in order to encourage and start Croatian companies and Croatian businessmen even more strongly in this regard. I said once here and on the current clock, it is not only a matter of Croatian businessmen and Croatian economies, but it is also an opportunity for many other institutions to support the whole process without appropriate systematic analysis, analysis, assessment, it is difficult to ensure a stable and reliable success in this market. The competitive advantages of the Croatian economy at this time are obvious, but the competitive advantages of the Croatian economy are not always given, and everyone in this area has the right to optimise their personal interests, their performances to achieve as much as possible. Winning for one, losing for another. Investment research on the privatisation of the economic perspective of the Republic of Croatia in Southeast Europe should be subject to the interest of a number of institutions, I will not say reputable ones, other scientific institutes that are related to this problem still need to be proven. It's an opportunity and a challenge. An opportunity and a challenge for the academic community. A chance and a challenge for all today who at the university don't know what to do, what to doctor and master, etc. These are real and real problems, these problems as real, as important should be recognised and the challenges should be addressed and dealt with, published, not written for themselves, almost for themselves, and no one else would use them, read. Given the long-term and strategic importance of this area for economic growth and the development of the Republic of Croatia, a comparative analysis of the benefits that the Croatian economy today has in this area can be of particular importance, but also foreordaining or predicting how these relations may look in the future, I would say a very interesting, important topic in terms of long-term planning and economic growth and the development of the Croatian economy and Croatian companies. As it is said, I will repeat, CEFTA should therefore harmonize the system of trade as such a multilateral contract is indicative and I would say necessary. The Croatian economy, we all often emphasise, is undoubtedly the most developed economy in this region of this new contract and such a multilateral framework would be logical to expect it to have short-term advantages, and it also has the most long-term benefit, but this is also a challenge to face. The exchange of goods has been said before, and is well known more or less to all the Republics of Croatia with the countries of the new CEFTA is such that we are achieving a surplus. This is certainly an important transitional process towards that requirement that will be far more difficult, challenging, on a more competitive and more difficult market for the future integrated European market on which the Republic of Croatia will be located. The new multilateral agreement should further liberalise trade and trade rules, it is said here about protecting investment, services etc. And that's the job standing in front of us. I repeat, and once again I will say that all these analyses of the comparative advantages of the Croatian economy and the ability to make better use of these comparative advantages in this far larger market can be a challenge for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Employers' Association, the National Competitiveness Council, etc. Appropriate sectoral analyses, weaknesses, benefits of opportunities, etc. are necessary and necessary. Success, certainly not disputed will belong to the best organized, best-informed, technologically superior, those who will be more creative and organized and more agile in that space. Is that what we're gonna show you're just gonna show time? The Treaty amending, supplementing and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement was due to enter into force on 1 May 2007. However, the condition is that the instruments of ratification and acceptance or approval are laid down by 31 March 2007. It is a pleasure to expect that we will adopt such an important contract in this Croatian Parliament on Friday. What do you say next at the end? Further stories of competitiveness heard from the mouth of people who probably don't know much about competitiveness will turn very nearly from the sphere of political academic debates into reality. A reality in which real results should be provided. It will be an opportunity for growth but, unfortunately, too, many others will face crises. Because the speed of restructuring of many Croatian companies is not enough at this time and such a market will force much greater adaptation dynamics so that this more challenging market, which is only the first step ahead of far more difficult and complex challenges of the single European market, stands. Such circumstances as I said are both for restructuring and for pressure and for the need to speed up this restructuring of the Croatian economy and for those stories of knowledge-based economy to really have a real basis. Scientific discussions, round tables and even many research projects in this area I think they can have their place and their interest and their perspective. So in the end, nothing unusual is done by all developed countries, planning, predicting, simulating, playing to make what happens predictable and in their interest. Competition is a challenge for ready and prepared, competition unfortunately in those who are unprepared causes fear, frustration, so it is no wonder that stories about a new Yugoslavia are also emerging, etc. And I'd say in the end, next. Due to the importance of this contract and its perspective and importance for the development of the Croatian economy in the long term, the HDZ Club proposes that during the ratification of this agreement, we undertake that once every six months in the next few years, we will have appropriate reports in the Croatian Parliament showing to what extent the Law on the interest of the Croatian economy and the Croatian state is implemented successfully and quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88066	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HSS club the esteemed representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88067	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I'm going to agree with my esteemed colleague, Cosic, who here initially mentioned that this is an extremely serious issue that, in my humble opinion, doesn't deserve this hall to be half empty. I think it should be a little more fulfilled because I think we should get a little more deep in the very part of this contract that we need to ratify. At first I want to make it clear, I think if we looked at this contract from above and didn't go into it in detail, maybe I would agree with some of the things that have been said here so far in that global part. But with this contract, however, HSS dealt with it a year ago, and in April 2006, when certain talks started on this topic, when a lot was said, I'm going to remind you maybe now this New CEFTA 2006, sounds a lot more likable. There were talk of the Western Balkans, there were some things that did not come across a good echo in the Croatian public, and I can tell you that they did not find a good echo with those experts who dealt with certain segments in this section. We tried our best, and then we built that segment that we want to talk about very clearly. And I can accept those arguments that are clearly made here. If we look at the overall economic exchange, if we look at the total balance, then it is positive for Croatia. Croatia is definitely being imposed as one leader of the space. And I don't think there's any controversy about those facts. What might be appreciated is I would say economist Mr. Primorac mentioned, and I think it would be good that maybe here, and I'll quote it over here. This was also mentioned last year when Bulgaria and Romania were in some way members of this CEFTA, said one I would say an important fact, that Croatia must not enjoy themselves in the position of the new CEFTA leader, because that position should bring us something that would be very bad, and that is that we would say one then ship and pull out and slow down our own ship because we have to withdraw some others. In particular, this should be seen in the context of those announcements that said that the new CEFTA would be some privileged association towards the European Union, and all this may lead to what I think is the ultimate goal for all of us and for what we all stand for, and this is the final entry into the European Union, certainly slowed down about Croatia. We were both provocative and provoked by the Croatian government, saying that it should not be thrown into the fog as to the issue, but should be analysed in detail. Analysing the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture and food industry towards the countries of the New CEFTA in 2006, unfortunately, we have come up with devastating data in this context. And that's what I want to clearly warn here, what I want to talk very clearly about here. I think our search was justified. If we have warned that certain problems have been created, that we have some problems in these relations and we have asked only to go out with something and I believe that we would need it and I have already talked about it here when we talk about the European Union one study of how much we get and how much we lose or how much we cost benefit studio so that we can deal with the numbers a little bit, let's see what it means for certain branches and what I'd say our discounts. It wasn't mentioned here today. The very clear provisions regarding the entry into CEFTA were until this new signing. They were that each country must satisfy to be a candidate for entry into the European Union. You all know how far we're in that path I'd tell all the governments, all those who participated in it know that it's not a very easy way, not a path that anyone would wish for, and how much work it also takes, work and certainly denial. Of course, bilateral agreements should be signed, not suspended, but signed. We know what problems we have with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, losses worth tens and tens of millions of dollars. Membership in the World Trade Organisation also came from the conditions which were to become a member of the CEFTA. Maybe some people don't know the details. Unfortunately, I have to say. Many things and many conditions that we had to accept to become a member of the World Trade Organisation have cost individual sectors in Croatia and that is definitely a fact. Now, that's all we say now shouldn't be now because we now have new conditions, there's a new CEFTA, in that new CEFTA there are other things. But I don't think it's a good idea to go over these things that we're talking about today. We did our best, so we did a survey of what the public thinks about it. It wasn't us. It was an agency. I'm not going to advertise here. And I have to tell you that out of a thousand citizens over them 41% expressed negatively about it. We didn't mention the Western Balkans because then I believe that percentage would be much more. We did mention an extended CEFTA or a new CEFTA. I think this data warns us of certain things. I think we've now come to a situation where this high-level parliament has been brought into a situation almost ratified by this treaty and I'm afraid we haven't dealt with it in that deeper analysis. Now allow me perhaps a little more words that are related to this sector of agriculture itself where I want to clearly warn what and unfortunately what negative consequences are possible in this part. I have to say, I don't mind. I have the knowledge that our negotiating team has certainly had its hands full, a lot of effort, certainly the part to which they were responsible and tied to that part. I would like to stress that the liberalisation of the domestic market through both the World Trade Organisation and the Treaty with the European Union has led to a major increase in the imports of agricultural and food products into Croatia. I'll remind you in 2005 that imports exceeded a record billion and 600 million US dollars, almost a billion US dollars last year. When we move away from these absolute amounts, we recalculate the number that tells us most clearly what situation we are in, then we come up with the fact that Croatia with $376 U.S. dollars per capita has been relatively observed by one of the largest food importers in Europe. I personally remember what criticism I personally suffered in that part when that rock said I would go up and I think that it was not stopped, it is necessary to do something in this part and to give that part a clear warning. Croatia records a huge exchange deficit in all primary agricultural products, and I have said that except for corn, mandarin and, of course, hooves. Imports of agricultural products continue to increase and exports are decreasing and I must say, and here I will now give you the data, the latest data that I believe will bring you all clearly into the picture we are now in. For the first three months of this year, when we observe the external trade in agricultural and food products, then imports increased by 17%, nearly 18% and exports fell by 4%. One trend I also warned about here after this pay phone when we talked about certain quotas, I'll remind you of the sugar beet quotas. Unfortunately, this also coincided with the non-export of tuna as one of the very significant export products at this time. And when we compare the deficit for the first three months in this part of the external trade exchange of agricultural and food products it amounts to 171 million US dollars and the 81% point is higher than in 2006. These are data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, definitely, so they are not data that anyone would be able to extract from anywhere. Maybe it's important at this point to say maybe what they're painting. When we look at only one segment in that section and, for example, livestock production, it may mean something to you in the first three months that 20 thousand 397 pieces of cattle of an average weight of 420 kilograms have been imported, and what is devastating especially when we know that an intervention buy is now in force, and when we know what happens to pig production in the first three months, 132 thousand 64 pieces of pigs have been imported in the first three months when it is calculated as an average weight of 100 kilograms. So I have to say that these warnings that go towards this section relating to primary agricultural production, when we compare them with concrete data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, I think we all need to imagine ourselves a little bit and say where we are now, what we need to do and whether only ratification of this agreement has done everything. I will tell you my very interesting meeting from a few days ago with the parliamentary delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina who came here clearly, said and told us we will not sign the agreement in the new CEFTA because our relationship with Croatia is bad in that part. But we will continue to hold on to the suspension of a free trade contract that was the only contract I know of, which was signed in a way that we went on a more favourable relationship with a particular state, gave it complete liberalisation, and kept certain I would say customs on the Bosnian side. Unfortunately, this warns us that we here in our Parliament should think and give some thought if I freely call it proposals, demands for the Croatian government and for this freely said sector to have more account. If trade with new CEFTA countries is fully liberalised in 2006, there will be a major disturbance in imports of almost all agricultural products, to a lesser extent if the food product. The biggest threat to domestic production threatens imports of the following products, which our study showed, wheat, wheat flour and farm barley from Serbia-Montenegro, beef from Serbia-Montenegro, poultry meat from Macedonia, lambs from Macedonia, milk and traditional milk processing from Serbia, eggs from Macedonia, honey from Macedonia and Serbia-Montenegro, almost all types of continental fruit from Serbia-Montenegro, table grapes, watermelons, peaches, agrum from Macedonia, almost all kinds of vegetables from Macedonia, peas, pods and peppers from Serbia-Montenegro, wine grapes and wine from Macedonia. I'll tell you just one example that shows the situation plastically. You can order a full boat of wine today, which means a contigence of wine arriving in Split, franco price 4 kuna. Ask any of our vineyards what he can do in this situation and what happens when such tanks come to a subordinate area and what is a negative, extremely negative effect in that part. I still have to mention here, since time is too short for me to be one important segment that we may not have said enough about. We need to know that in all these countries, conditions are not the same as those related to the outbreak of a larger number of infectious diseases. Unfortunately, many of these countries are not members of world organisations, and here I primarily think of the OER, the World Veterinary Organization, and not many others. You know what problems we have with swine fever, foot foot foot, Q fever, bluetongue. We are now opening up in one piece, and the possibility that will be unfortunately is inconceivable. We have in a certain way raised our institutions. I will just say an example of a neutral milk laboratory that we can be proud of, and neither Slovenia nor any other country that are members of the European Union, and we know the situation with such institutions is related to other countries. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, they don't even think about a lab for DSET, i.e. for testing cow madness, etc. I think the conditions are unequal. If we're going to have to wait for them, then this is a bad move and the HSS can't support such ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88068	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS, Honorable Representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Regional Party Representatives Club, we are involved in the debate on this multilateral agreement and we want to say that from our point of view for Croatia there is no other way than to attend and enter the Central European Treaty or to enter into this new CEFTA for the simple reason that we believe and hold that this is one of the stages on the way to the European Union. If Croatia wants to join the European Union, then regardless of all the problems for us, there is no alternative for some parts of our internal economy to integrate either in the Central European area, either tomorrow in the European Union. We simply keep it simple that we must, we must work, we must trade, and if we want to trade successfully, we must do better than we are doing in certain parts of our work and in our internal economy, so that we can go and watch a game that is not on the market or a little light, but it is simply the way it is. We believe that it is quite clear that the only market on which we have a surplus and on which we can have a surplus tomorrow is this particular Central European market. We're not gonna make a surplus by doing business in Scandinavia or Benelux. Or we'll have to wait years and decades to do that. But this where we now have a surplus that is expressed by these figures that is said to grow for the simple reason that we have an advantage in the organization of an economy like, weak and sloppy, compared to those with which we are converting through these bilateral agreements into multilateral, we are actually sanctioning a state that already exists. These political illusions that are mentioned about this, we'd like to say a few simple words about it. I think we live where we live, in Southeast Europe, in the Balkans, we didn't choose our neighbours, but neither did our neighbours choose us, and that's kind of a common feature. And whatever good and bad ties us from the past is definitely that full membership and civil rights in Europe can be achieved through these forms of economic integration and there is no alternative. Perhaps this debate should say that one of the people’s offices is applicable in this case as well. It wasn't the bad guys who said that sometimes it's good to be the first one in the country, but the last one in town. And that's why we'd like to say, without the intention of giving a lecture to someone, it's not bad in a certain space to be an economic leader, and with that maybe create a battery where this economy can continue to consolidate plants rather than stay out of it and be in some imaginary city the last. That is why we think that the inevitable is this ratification, as is the inevitable, liberalisation of total business among the countries that exist today in Southeast Europe. Of course, we believe that our real and final goal is to enter the European Union between 2009 and 2011 and to make this a stage or stage. But precisely the gravity of the debate on what we are talking about today is how difficult it is actually what we must do until we enter the European Union. The adjustments made to the European Union will not be a bit easy for us to adapt to the European Union and therefore the period of 2 to 4 years that follows us is certainly very difficult for us. We think that this is an economic, business and trade agreement, not a political agreement, and we think that the reality is that, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia must ratify it by stressing all the obligations that we now face with this treaty if we do not think that we have a chance to adapt within two to four years and to change in everything we need to become a real part of the European people's community between 2009 and 2011. And that's why we support this, and we don't have any dilemmas about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88070	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88071	Mr. Vice President, ma'am, who you're not on the list of people who need to defend this document, and then you wouldn't be able to sit where you're sitting, so I don't know what your name is, either your colleagues or your colleagues. So this document is something which is the continuity of a policy that began relatively long ago and in that sense, of course, that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this law, or this contract. But it is not bad to mention that, by any chance, a slightly different schedule of political groups in power and opposition would be here to talk about the Western Balkans. The introduction of the Republic of Croatia into some of the old surviving associations and so on. And like that, as we're witnessing, there's no such thing as luck. Because it's a more or less empty story. There is no speech about it, and of course there is much more important content, which means this document, which means that contract than the political disqualifications that we fear and fear the nation when we are in opposition, and when we are in power, we accept them. First of all, this isn't CEFTA. It is an agreement on a common market for countries of more or less Southeast Europe or what Europe calls the Western Balkans whatever we think of it. The only country that is one part of its Central European country is Croatia. This could still be said for Serbia in view of its northern parts, but it cannot be said either for Bosnia and Herzegovina or Kosovo which is not yet a state or for Albania, and especially for Moldova and Macedonia that they are Central European countries, and yet this contract is called CEFTA or the Central European Free Trade Agreement. But I say it's much more important the content of this document than it is, than it is the symbolism that then, as we had the opportunity to see it, can be politically used when someone needs it, and when it doesn't need that symbolism to be forgotten. So this is a contract that connects eight members. That is not, therefore, the former, former Western Balkans, which includes 6 plus 1 minus 1. This contract includes another plus 2. Two member states. Or one is a potential country of Kosovo, so... This hour and second is Moldova, which especially does not belong to Central European, Central European countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's definitely about that, one continuity of politics because we're actually, in fact, one part of it just confirming the situation we've already found. The Republic of Croatia has signed bilateral free trade agreements with these countries. Therefore, this joint agreement is merely an extension of these contractual relations on free trade which were signed before with a slightly more radical pace of reducing various types of trade benefits. In addition, this contract is based on the International Trade Organisation, the World Trade Organisation, which is a member of the Republic of Croatia. Which the Republic of Croatia wanted to be a member, it was one of our important policies in the 1990s. And of course on... as his, as the instrument of the World Trade Organisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's nothing really new about it either. However, it is important to note that this is not an important contract, regardless of the continuity of so far the governments of the Republic of Croatia, that according to this contract by 31.12.2008, they will be reduced, and then that date and abolish all customs duties on industrial products. This fact will certainly affect one part of our industry, or industry, of those countries. Another fact is the reduction and elimination of import duties and for agricultural products. Although not with this dynamic until 31.12.2008 but relatively quickly, with the prohibition of lifting special monopoly and protective positions or mechanisms that exist now. These are therefore things that are not exactly harmless and the Republic of Croatia must therefore think of this aspect and try to naturally protect our national interests. This contract is to be used and not to fear it as we did just before by a colleague of the HSS, I hope in good faith we had the opportunity to hear what might be a threat to our position. You should see, of course, what are the advantages of the Republic of Croatia, because here, besides the abolition of all export subsidies for agricultural production and for the Republic of Croatia and for all these remaining 7 countries, it is also a matter of abolishing technical barriers to trade, which is an even higher level of integration and free trade than is a customs policy. And what are now the advantages of the Republic of Croatia that this situation could use to take a leading position in trade here in the region and thus, of course, strengthen but also strengthen its position towards the European Union. With that, of course, we must say that we must not focus on these markets alone. It is easier for us today in these markets than it is in our European Union markets. It will be easier to stay and expand our strength and presence in these markets. But it should not be forgotten that our ultimate ambition is to find our place on the European Union market, not on the market, only in the market of these countries that are concerned here, regardless of what they, I don't know, are also going to be members of the European Union for 5 or 10 years. In that sense, we have a stable and not a small advantage that benefits should take advantage of. It's certainly more developed production in a series of segments that are mentioned here. A higher level of legal regulation, a level found due to a higher level of adaptation of our laws to the laws of the European Union, and this contract is only one step along the path of these countries towards the European Union and contains many elements of what contains, for example, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, Croatia is ahead and, of course, built institutions that allow free trade which, of course, other countries to the extent that the Republic of Croatia does not have. Therefore, in this respect, the country could also be a model, but also a country which also has its current advantages, the situation that at a higher level of development, the building of the system should be used to strengthen its position in relation to these countries, and also to help those countries reach this level that the Republic of Croatia, or the level of which they are declared to be more pronounced, which is the level of free trade that is now existing in the European Union as soon as possible. But there are also difficulties, there are also disadvantages that the Republic of Croatia, which will be faced with this agreement. These countries have a lower standard, have lower wages and therefore have a lower price for products which will therefore be competition for Croatian products and should be thought of. Of course, that's what my colleague Pankretic was talking about before me. But of course you shouldn't think about that negative or just the unfavourable fact of this agreement, but also of these positive things that I was talking about. And the other negative aspect I have in mind is the danger of various irregularities that can appear in commercial contacts with these countries. These countries have not developed mechanisms for avoidance of monopolys, against legal or against contractual subsidies. There is a possibility of playing contractual provisions all of course on the commercial, commercial damage of the Republic of Croatia because these mechanisms are not designed or controlled in these countries as in the Republic of Croatia. That's what to pay attention to. And that is why the Joint Committee, which is foreseen by this Treaty, will follow its implementation, should take it seriously. There should be people on that committee who will monitor that there is no breach of the contractual provisions that could be harmful to the Republic of Croatia. So it's the nature of this job. I'm not talking about any intentional or unintentional attempts. But if you don't respect it, you don't have monopoly protection mechanisms, subsidy control, etc. Then it is possible that some agricultural products are especially in a regime that will make the Republic of Croatia more incompetent in trade with these countries and should be paid attention to that. And so that's what the taste of this contract is. So he is only on track for the entire economic and trade integration policy of the Republic of Croatia in the last ten years. I'm glad that there's a completely unnecessary political actually burdensome context here, even though of course we'd be talking about it and I'm afraid that's not why we didn't get out of that time, but it's just a coincidence of who's in power today, who's in opposition. And most importantly, this contract should be used by the Republic of Croatia to be a leader, a regional leader in the economic segment and thus strengthen its economic position, to enable its neighbours to reach their level before they reach their level because it is not our interest for them to be undeveloped, but for us to be more developed than they are and ultimately to strengthen their position in their relationship with the European Union. If we look at it in such a way and know how to take advantage of these advantages that stand here, which are made possible, and of course to block the disadvantages resulting from this Treaty, then the contract will bring additional damage to the overall economic and foreign-political interests of the Republic of Croatia and that is why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88072	Let me explain and introduce you. I presented to one Mrs Tatjana Kesic-Sabic as State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship. It has the full right to sit here by the Rules of Procedure, answer your questions, and, for technical reasons, it is not registered as the legal representative of the motionor. I said that at the beginning of this point, so let me tell you again. So, Tatjana Kesic-Sabiæ, State Secretary. The HSP club is a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88073	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor. The debates that are being heard today during the debate on this CEF Treaty reminds me of everything we heard three, four years ago when some other trade agreements were being discussed here, and they remind me even more of the discussions we heard in 2000 and 2001 when it joined the WTO and when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was ratified. Why am I saying that? For two reasons. First, even then, it was claimed that the consequences would not be dramatic even if no one contributed to any simulation of what was actually going to happen. However, we know how things go after Croatia's entry into the WTO and how things go after Croatia's entry into the trade regime that defines the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is that our year after year our food imports are growing, or that we are year after year in an increasingly unfavourable external trade balance. On the other hand, these discussions reminded us that if we ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and enter the WTO system, we will be at the door of the European Union very soon, practically within a few months. Of course, there is no speech about it, but Croatia will enter the Union at a pace that the Union itself thinks should enter. I want to say this all together because while the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was about an agreement of a well-organised trade and economic community of the European Union with a country that wants to be a member of that same association and that agrees with all possible standards of conduct, while we had an agreement between Croatia that seeks European standards of behaviour and the European Union where they already live, we have here a free trade agreement between Croatia which is now a step away from joining the Union and countries that can only dream of it. And at least another decade. Moreover, none of these mechanisms that have become normal in us have yet to come back to life in theory, neither have they been applied in the legislation nor have they been implemented. And that's where our fears grow in this whole story, that is, our warnings where this can almost end. So that the creation of this new CEFTA, which includes the countries of the former SFRY minus Slovenia plus Albania and Moldova, that it went the way that Croatia signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that is, gentlemen first all in the WTO, all agree to the same level of legislation that regulates these issues covered by this Free Trade Agreement, all of them bring their regulatory frameworks to the same level and then create such an agreement, perhaps our fears would not be so. However, it is obvious that things are not happening in this way, that one criteria are valid for Croatia, of course, because we are in the process of negotiations with the European Union, and other criteria will apply to those who have been introduced here, such as Albania, Serbia or Moldova. So it's about what these countries, of course, and the conditions and the way they behave in foreign trade, are not likely to respect. My predecessors were also talking about the possibility that various hidden subsidies were actually held by de facto monopolies in those countries. What I have to warn you here is the question of adequate product control. Who guarantees us that these products will indeed be at the level of what Croatia requires of its producers, and here we believe in the word. I repeat in countries where standards are not at the level that are in Croatia before entering the European Union. The second thing, of course, is the inevitable political framework. I'm sorry, but I have to mention him. This Agreement replaces a number of bilateral trade agreements with one framework agreement, with one package that treats this whole area. And of course that leads to an economic association that has its own rules, which engulfs it all together in one package. This package approach is obviously popular for people in the European Union and, of course, this package approach by the bureaucrats is trying to impose on the Croatian government. But it is not clear why it all fits together and all under the auspices that it will speed up our entry into the European Union. You will forgive the entry into the European Union depends on the link and quality of the negotiations and on the implementation of what has been negotiated in our legislation. Not the conclusion of an agreement such as the one that has nothing to do with Acquis Communtaire, it is simply about agreeing to certain models of resolving economic and political issues in this part of Europe. Of course, there are and they say well, in this case Croatia can be imposed as a leader in this market and we can take advantage of the benefits provided here. However, let's be realistic, with all the free trade agreements so far, Croatia has generally achieved only a negative external trade balance. So the more free trade agreements we have, the more negative the external trade balance has always been. God forbid, if we were to do so in a way that we could control those markets and dominate them. But that's almost impossible. Because these markets are dominated by countries that are economically far stronger than we are. So the only economic advantage, the only reason for entering this regime, is that Croatia is imposed on these markets with its production, but that reason, however noble, unfortunately, is completely unrealistic and impossible to achieve. And all the other reasons stand, which is that we are entering an association where it will be almost impossible to control the quality of the product and respect European standards in the foreign trade which Croatia has long agreed to by entering the WTO and signing the Agreement and Stabilisation and Association. For all these reasons, I express our club's deepest concern about this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88074	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88075	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state, who is here with us and who listens very carefully to us even though the great technical error is not written, we look forward to having her here. So, I have to, and, I must admit, here we are, unfortunately, we are neither Norway, nor Switzerland, nor Iceland that we can live alone, that we can live without the European Union even though their representatives and their delegations when they were here have also said that it would be very interesting to enter the European Union, but simply the referendum does not pass. Because some have, Iceland has fish, Switzerland has banks, Norway has oil and so on. We are therefore forced to keep in touch with neighboring countries. ... That's right, we have Croatia, Zdenko says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Normally, on the other hand, CEFTA was more attractive when it was really countries that are closer to Central Europe than it is now, these are a little further south. But no doubt that's what they're going to go into. Namely the contract is, just a little bit, the contract is already already I think in all my details agreed. Then only a few countries still need to ratify the contract. Among them is Croatia. But as counterpart Pankretic also said to Bosnia and Herzegovina whose board we have had this much, I could also say unpleasant talks with the threat that they will not ratify the contract, that they will unilaterally terminate all contracts and that the Free Trade Treaty if we do not agree to a customs rate for their products 0, and for our products entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, customs duties will rise as much as they do. Therefore, I think there will be more problems with accepting, but I think CEFTA is generally agreed in this form. It may be interesting for us to enter Ukraine as a large market, but the question is, to what extent can we adapt to this current market. If we ask our entrepreneurs, I know from this area, so from my city, a whole series of them have long opened representations in Sarajevo, Belgrade for their own, exporting their products, doing jobs. Investments went on without this contract. But this contract was still meant to define some things. If we look at the goals that are written here in the contract proposal, they're very interesting and I think they cover everything that should be and the thing is clearly the negotiator was how much we're going to be represented here. The parties will therefore establish and maintain stable, favourable and transparent conditions for investors from other parties who invest and want to invest in their territory. I suppose we will allow investment to this extent, but here we are in advantage, because actually we are now going to invest in their area and surely those investments have proved very good, useful for now. Then, normally, this Treaty also states that, in accordance with its laws and regulations, the necessary administrative authorisation should be provided for in respect of such investments. So for investors in the area, in other areas, and also here, we need to take advantage of the opportunity when we invest in other countries, to ensure us and not to block investments. It is clear that it is also about the exchange of information, etc. This CEFTA should actually really, as colleagues pointed out, homogenise economic space, regulate the conditions of mutual trade, clear customs rates, state support, regulate different payments, transparency of laws and contracts and the area of public procurement. How much of this we use clearly depends on ourselves. It needs to be protected as much as possible by increased production and increased investment at last and support will be phased out, but while they still need to be maximised here, our farmers will, above all, be ready to accept cheaper goods, let's say cheap wine, I don't know from Macedonia, Moldova and so on. Thank you. I can see that my colleagues are already eager to stop this debate, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88076	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Walter Poropat. Excuse me, replica. Excuse me. Replica, the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88077	Just one thought not so much, dear colleague Markovanovic spoke of a certain regulation. What concerns me in this part of it I would say are one-sided moves that we have now felt most directly, for example, from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. From Serbia to the total ban on oil products to damages that, according to some estimates, are $50 million, to the introduction of excise duties, to the export of cigarettes that are our biggest export products, to their clear speech we have a commitment to our investors and to multinational companies and we have to protect our market because it must be a monopoly until a certain time. On the other hand, the situation with Bosnia and Herzegovina is suspended, where what it tells them in a certain way is that it is causing them a problem, where they have no standards but I would say a simple decision. I don't think in that part of Croatia can just accept it. We have suffered some damage for two years. The damage will soon reach cca 100 million dollars, I think they estimate. Maybe if we don't respond in some way. I'm not personally blackmailed, but I'm also a clear warning. What we, unfortunately here and colleague Markovanovic mentioned, listened to on the board where it was said we will break everything, we are not interested in saying it wasn't on parliamentarians to say it, but it comes from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it's good for us. We find it interesting considering what we have in the surplus. It is clear that we must be sensitive to some relations, but we must not suffer any damage and I think that the Croatian Government must take certain measures there, it must draw attention that it cannot behave in international relations in this way. Accept what you like, good for you, and what you don't like ok. We're not going to spend it, it's not going through. It's not serious for us and those countries if they think it's gonna be like that, then we don't need any CEFTAs or any agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88078	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88079	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary. I personally support this bill, and whatever the Government is in this Treaty in its amendment and complementarity and accession to the Central European Free Trade Treaty should, in my opinion, be accepted. Why am I saying that? So if we look around us rightly, we can ask ourselves what our destiny is. Croatia can't go to the European Union yet, but that's why it can go to CEFTA, and let's remember, all of our neighbours who are members of the European Union today were the first steps towards the European Union. After ratification of the contract, the CEFTA will be made by the Republic of Croatia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Kosovo, Macedonia and Moldova. The signing of this agreement is in fact a liberalisation of the market with which the Republic of Croatia will profit because the Republic of Croatia is realistically viewed as a leader in these areas and this position should be used. Yes, customs will disappear, but the flow of goods will rise very much and thus the inflow into the budget will rise. Interestingly, the biggest investments of Croatian companies are currently in Serbia. The moment that came when Serbian Parliament Speakers voted last week, of course, was a shock for all investors in Serbia, but you see, and Serbs have found ways to solve the problem. So I must say that investing in Serbia would have been even greater if Serbia had allowed it. I will only mention an example of a TDR that is not simply given to enter the tobacco market in the Republic of Serbia. By confirming this contract, I am sure that the smuggling will be reduced, and the prices of the product will be stabilised. The implementation of this contract is an opportunity for these spaces to finally be better understood, better economic and traffic connections, better tourist values, better knowledge and finally these agreements best treat wounds and frustrations. It is true what Damir Cain said, the European Union can also be seen as a champion's league champion. You know you won't win the KUP for a while, but you also know it's better to play in that league than to be out of it. When we talk about the objectives of this Treaty, and they are united in one contract, an existing level of trade liberalisation achieved through a network of bilateral free trade contracts already concluded between the parties, further improve the conditions for encouraging investment including direct foreign investment, expand trade in goods and services, and strengthen investment in fair, clear and justified rules, remove barriers and trade disturbances and facilitate the movement of goods on transit and the movement of goods and services between the parties, etc. Then anyway this law should be supported and I'll do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88080	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the Treaty on Change and Completion and Accession of the Central-European Free Trade Treaty. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 101 votes for, 3 abstentions and 7 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88083	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the third time I have filed a report in this assembly of the Croatian Parliament, a convocation that has chosen me on duty. The report is prepared by standard methodology and consists of several parts that are only conditionally and relatively separate. In the first part at the beginning we gave a presentation of statistics on the number and structure of complaints of citizens as well as the most important data on the work of the office. Some trends and trends can be observed from comparisons with 2005 data as with earlier years. In the second most important part, the report shows work on complaints from citizens in certain administrative areas, and that part, apart from descriptions and assessments of the most common problems that citizens face before the administrative authorities in these areas, also contains a rather wide-ranging display of characteristic cases that allow the best insight into the problems and difficulties that citizens face in communication with administrative bodies. The report also includes an overview of the international cooperation activities of the Ombudsman, then work on the ground on the occasion of a visit to the county, but also the working conditions of the office and the problem with this. At the end of the report as well as each year in accordance with the provisions of Articles 5 and 9. I would like to draw attention to the issue of the appearances and areas that deserve special attention from the Croatian Parliament, but in this year's report I am opening some important issues for the future of the Ombudsman institution as well as for the development of the defence function in the Republic of Croatia in general. The report is largely, and it is also important to note from a total of 180 pages more than 170 refer to the state, regional and local administration, and only 5 pages to the judiciary and complaints of citizens about it. I especially note this because of the fact that this part of the report usually captures all media attention even though the problems of citizens... Just as much attention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The structure of the complaint can see a gradual reduction in the number of complaints related to the effects of the war and the collapse of the former state, although their number is still relatively large. Thus, a reduction in the number of complaints about pension-inhabitation, ownership rights of construction, rights of defenders and denationalisation is visible, while the number of complaints about the reconstruction proceedings is approximately the same, about 200 cases a year. Trend increases are visible in the residential area, mainly due to the programme and the right to housing, then to persons deprived of freedom, there is a relatively large growth, but this is because in the last two years we have begun to systematically tour prisons, penitentiary facilities and educational... , but it is also a larger number because of the police's behaviour, it is about excessive use of force and treatment towards citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The specific part of the report also shows that citizens are not addressing the Ombudsman only for the protection of their rights against classical administrative authorities, i.e. in standard administrative procedures. More and more citizens complain about other entities such as telephone operators, business banks, school and higher education institutions, health and social institutions and others. All this requires changes and adjustments in the organisation of working methods in the Office of the General Prosecutor. Attention also deserves our assessment of... complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The reason for the high percentage of complaints made in relation to the countries of old democracy is that all complaints concerning the length of the proceedings, i.e. inadequate longevity and unreasonable deadlines, such objections, should mainly be considered as established. Without that, complaints concerning the legality of work, regularity, etc. They'd move far down the line. This year too, the report warns particularly about the long-term administrative resolution in the same areas as in previous years. It's a property-legal reconstruction, a retirement-involved part of construction. Administrative settlement in the number of cases in those areas takes years to take place and to include proceedings before the Administrative Court. Unfortunately for the violations of human rights due to the long-term administrative resolution, the European Court of Human Rights also warned in several judgments in 2006 and this year. By deciding on requests for infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time in cases before the Administrative Court, the European Court of Justice has taken a view that contrary to the current practice of our Constitutional and Supreme Court, the duration of the proceedings before the administrative bodies should be included in the assessment of the length of the reasonable period of time in the administrative dispute. The Court found that there is no effective remedy in the Republic of Croatia against the length of the administrative procedure, and that the procedure for the silence of the administration is not effective among other things and due to the length of the proceedings before the Administrative Court. In addition, those judgments found that there are no procedural guarantees in the domestic legal system against repeated and repeated return to re-trial. The result of these judgments is that the Constitutional, or Supreme Court, will have to introduce soon, and perhaps a new practice has already been done these days, according to which citizens will have to count the duration of the previous administrative procedure for overcoming a reasonable period of time in the course of the dispute before the Administrative Court. Until then, the European Court of Justice will allow, as was the case with these judgments, direct address to that court. The damage to the Republic of Croatia is multiple. The European Court's assessment that human rights are violated in the Republic of Croatia not only because of the length of the court but also because of the administrative procedure is not a good recommendation at this time. On the other hand, an increased number of complaints by citizens with easily predictable financial consequences should be expected, as well as the consequences of the urgency of the work of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. All of these could and should have been predicted and to a certain extent avoided. Not without dissatisfaction, I must remind myself of the measures and recommendations I have made to this House in the 2004 and 2005 reports, which are fully current and now following the European Court's rulings. The proposed measures were equally focused on addressing accumulated backlogs in certain areas, as well as on changing practices that allow the long-term duration of the proceedings either because of the ineffectiveness of the administration's silence procedure, or because of the possibility of repeated return to the re-trial. Or because of the length of the proceedings before the Administrative Court. At that time, there was no judgment or obligation imposed by the European Court of Justice and it was obvious and clear that the rights of citizens in certain administrative areas are seriously and permanently violated because of the long-term nature of the proceedings. And the task and obligation of the Ombudsman is not only to help citizens in individual procedures, but also to warn the Parliament and the public about the occurrences of violations of rights in order to improve the work of administrations and administrative officials. The fact that the recommendations of the Ombudsman in the Assembly are generally supported and accepted as well as that these recommendations and proposals have never been challenged by the administrative bodies to which they apply, but in practice they are very rarely carried out is a worrying and raises the question in a certain way and the purposes of the institution itself, but also the mechanisms through which the Croatian Parliament exercises its powers in relation to the executive authority and administration. The issue of the long-term sustainability of these administrative procedures is one of the important elements in relation to citizens-government, the relationship that will change significantly until the accession of the European Union. In the European Union, there is a right to a good administration which, apart from the unquestionable legality and efficiency, includes both the friendly administration and the administration, which is, in its most large part, a public service at the service of citizens. The reform of the administration, i.e. The way to a good and efficient administration, friendly and at the service of citizens cannot be achieved only or mainly by harmonising domestic legislation and by following regulations with European Union regulations. Especially if this harmonisation means taking over other people's models and solutions and without the necessary adjustments in terms of domestic needs, the total domestic legal system and legal culture. With the harmonisation of the rules, standards and principles need to be adopted on which modern, professional, with respect to citizens, a significantly depolitised administration rests. When it comes to resolving the rights and legal interests of citizens and ministers and other heads of central government bodies must regularly account for the Government and the Parliament, as well as citizens for all issues as a whole. It must not take years for the Government or the Parliament to propose measures or proposals for changing the situation. Now just a few words about the judiciary or not about the judiciary as much as about complaints from citizens on the work of courts and judges, whose number is constantly high, with the attorney general and does not decrease. Of course, it is only those complaints concerning the length of court proceedings and other issues of the judicial administration. According to our assessment, there is still a lack of systematic and direct supervision, especially in the case of complaints, of citizens, and not all the causes of impunity have been removed from the courts with the most lags. The measures and activities taken recently by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice have been good and have yielded initial results, more in criminal than in the civil court. But they are not enough because there is no right to support and assistance that should be manifested in ensuring the necessary number of judges and judicial advisers in the most critical courts. These are in Zagreb, Split, then the Administrative Court, but also in the necessary strengthening of the judicial administration and the introduction of a modern court procedure in order to ensure continued monitoring and control and evaluation of the work of judges. I have also stated in the report that it is paradoxical to make it much easier for new authorities and agencies to find funds for new staff, while in courts that really need it it is a very difficult and painful process. In these but also other issues that citizens are constantly warning about and seeking solutions and answers, it is difficult not to see what the report calls a deficit of the Ministry of Justice's reform capacity. The deficit is also visible in the delay of the need to streamline the courts, then the issue of solutions to the concept and problems of the Administrative Court, the failure to resolve the system of free legal aid, the legal tariffs, so in matters which depend significantly on citizens' rights to access the court and the trial within a reasonable period. I, of course, also advocate in this report to further create possibilities for outside the judicial protection of the rights of citizens in relation to the judicial administration through the institution of the attorney general. Such a proposal has also been endorsed in the European Commission's report on the state of justice and their latest changes in the work of the European Court of Human Rights in which the mechanism provides for a more significant role of the European Heroes in the field of justice. Finally, it is only necessary to repeat the assessment that all measures will not be sufficient if there is no improvement in the quality of the judicial staff, primarily by measures and activities, which is most important within the judicial system itself and not outside it. If the system of control and evaluation which means the responsibility of judges does not fully function and if the system itself does not eliminate by any of the criteria of incompetent and unquality judges will strengthen the requirements for radical measures and intervention of other branches of government which would not be good at all. In this respect, these latest requests by the Court of Justice to restrict the right because the public commentation and assessment of judges and their judgments in the public do not go in the right direction, and the reputation of the profession does not contribute either to the procedure of appointment or promotion of judges if it is not fully transparent and according to all known objective criteria. At the end of this presentation, I will briefly explain the proposal for the Croatian Assembly to open a discussion on the concept of future development of defence function in the Republic of Croatia before the adoption of the Law on the establishment of new defences. First of all, for avoiding any misunderstandings, I would like to stress that I have never and not now disputed the existence and role of a lawyer for children and gender equality. What I want is to protect the constitutional role of the Ombudsman and the constitutional institution whose work and tasks are set out in the Constitution. Any so-called ordinary law cannot be abolished or exempt from the scope of the vacancy of the Ombudsman, what is prescribed by the Constitution as his task. This does not, of course, mean that the law cannot set up defences that provide special protection outside or above which it is authorised to provide a vacancy counsel but should not prescribe the same competitive jurisdiction as the ombudsman for certain categories or groups of people. In addition to this constitutional objection which is very important, I also point to the economic side and the rationality of such solutions, as well as the fact that a possible increase in number and even inflation of the number of lawyers can significantly weaken the authority and otherwise highly personalised institutions. All of these are reasons that require serious debate as much as harmonisation of the rules and harmonisation of institutional solutions within the Council of Europe, and the European Union also assumes strong in the powers, staff and resources of the national institution of the parliamentary ombutsman. The institution of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia should be strengthened rather than weakened. The Croatian Parliament has already adopted a two-year programme to strengthen the occupier. The second part of the programme should be implemented through the 2008 budget at the end of which 30 people would be employed in the office. Also in 2008, especially if changes to the Constitution were to take place, it would be appropriate to nominate the 1992 Law on the Ombudsman, who, in addition to everything, had become obsolete and brought the powers of the Ombudsman to the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I would say those outside Zagreb, so areas, regions and also the need to comply with the European environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88084	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88085	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General with deputies, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 79th session held on 17 April 2007 discussed the report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia on 3 April 2007. The Committee discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee maintains that, in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of Cyprus, the Ombudsman assessed the degree of respect for constitutional and legal rights and submitted proposals for a possible resolution of the occurrences that limit those rights. The Committee found that the report shows that there have been positive developments in human rights but that there are still many objections to the long-term resolution in the judicial and administrative proceedings. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006 is accepted. A year.".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88086	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? They both left the board. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] President of the Committee, Honored Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88087	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman on 25 April 2007. The Committee considered that report as a parent working body. In the debate, members of the Committee unanimously supported the standard, quality and comprehensive Report of the Ombudsman in particular by praising the methodology of its production, covering all aspects of the work of the Ombudsman's Office from a general picture of the situation through the presentation of statistics through analysis of the work in legal areas, with the presentation of work on the ground and international activities, up to the completion of assessments and proposals. In particular, the members of the committee pointed out the extremely good co-operation of the board with the occupier of the staff, which is carried out through permanent contacts and the active participation of the ombudsman at committee meetings. The opinion is that the Croatian Parliament should carefully consider and accept the recommendations and proposals of the Ombudsman and insist on their implementation, which this committee will also contribute to and support. This concerns, above all, the implementation of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, which support plans to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, notably the financial and staff strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman, although the 2007 budget provides for an increase of around 24% more than for 2006 which will enable the employment of part of the required staff members of the Committee to support further increases of 20% in the budget in order to further staffing the office in line with the proposed and supported plans. The Committee also proposes to the Croatian Parliament to find a solution to the work space issue in order to ensure normal work of the office. In the debate, members of the committee specifically referred to the importance of expanding the view of the Ombudsman institute in the Republic of Croatia. It has been pointed out that the institution of the Ombudsman is established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. It is precisely this role of the attorney general that it is necessary to strengthen the exercise of his power, in line with the views and recommendations of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, which, under Protocol 14 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, takes an active role in the work of the European Court of Human Rights through the establishment of a network of national ombutsmans in order to address those issues which could lead to a large number of disputes before the European Court of Justice. The laws establishing the new Ombudsmans cannot be changed and constitutional competences of the Advocate General cannot be taken over and the functionality and rationality of such an approach is questionable. This must be taken into account when setting up new defences, given that the parliamentary procedure already contains two draft laws, on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and Advocates for Retired Persons and Elderly Persons and in the public lobbying for the introduction of the Ombudsman for other vulnerable social groups. As the debate also supports the establishment of small and mobile specialised ombudsmans, members of the board are of the opinion that a special debate should be held on this issue, of course at the plenary session of the Assembly as well. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that defences do not necessarily have to be parliamentary powers and that the necessary resources for their work can be found from the pre-accession funds of the European Union. As citizens and the public, as well as international institutions, the Ombudsman's institution is seen as a national and independent human rights institution in the broadest, with the broadest mandate in the field of protection of human rights, the board members are of the opinion that in this respect it should implement amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Attorney's Office, but Article 92. The Constitution. They also supported the evaluation of the narrator in order to be useful for certain forms of control to be entrusted by citizens to the occupier as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, which is independent and independent in its work, which would provide additional protection against the length of proceedings and irregularities in the affairs of the judicial administration. In fact, individual committee members stressed that this is confirmed by the Ombudsman in their report that one, excuse me, is also confirmed by the Ombudsman in his report that one of the biggest problems of the Croatian judiciary is the length of the court proceedings, i.e. the excess of a reasonable period of time. They pointed out that reacting by the Ministry of Justice to the presented performances is not satisfactory or appropriate. In the course of the investigation, the Ministry was satisfied with the reply of the President of the Court or even of the court in question, while direct insight into the court case file is a rare exception. As a rule, the judicial inspection is not supervised by complaints and representations of citizens, and in 2006 only one case has been supervised on the basis of the citizens' representation and none of the strict proceedings against judges in 2006 was initiated on the basis of the facts set out in the examination procedure. Since the Ombudsman has devoted most of the report to the work of the administrative bodies, since the largest number of complaints in 2006 also referred to the long-term sustainability of administrative procedures and procedures, i.e. the failure of the administrative authorities to pay particular attention to the proposals to address this problem. For the long-term and non-determination of a solution within a legal period of 6 days or at least a reasonable and reasonable period, complaints in pension and pension, property and housing are still the most frequent complaints, both in the first instance and in the appeal procedure. In addition to failure to comply with the deadlines by the administrative authorities, the Advocate General has warned against non-compliance with the legal obligation set out in Article 296. The law on general administrative procedure under which administrative authorities are always obliged to notify the party in writing when they are unable to comply with the legal deadlines and specify which actions they will take to resolve their cases. In his view, in the absence of any number of administrative proceedings, the delay is due to the fact that neither the first-degree nor the second-degree or the appeal bodies apply the rights and possibilities but not the obligations laid down in Articles 235 to 237, i.e. 242 and 243 respectively. The law on administrative proceedings that can solve the administrative matter on their own in connection with the appeal. He stressed that such a practice leads to the multiple annulment of the solution and the return to the retrial process, which extends the procedure and violates citizens' rights. The consequences of such practice and the work of the governing body are also that the administrative, administrative, European Court of Human Rights, in two judgments in mid-2006, found an infringement of Article 6(1). Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He also warned that the legal views of these rulings could lead to new rulings against the Republic of Croatia with financial consequences, but also with the assessment that Replica Croatia cannot provide European standards in administrative matters. The members of the board supported the recommendation of the Ombudsman, and after the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. 1. A report on the work of the Advocate General for 2006 shall be adopted. 2. Opinions, objections and proposals shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of competent authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88088	Thank you. The Justice Committee. Committee on Immigration, Chairman of the Committee, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88089	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 33rd session held on 16 May this year, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Polish Ombudsman for 2006 which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Croatian Act of 3 April 2007. The Committee discussed this report as an interested working body. Introductoryly, the proposer's representative addressed the Committee's members to a report on which he had nothing to add. He pointed out that the report gives a clear picture of the work of the Ombudsman. The number of objects did not increase significantly. In a large majority of cases, citizens express their dissatisfaction with the work of the courts due to the length of the proceedings. The Ombudsman shall provide information on legal issues to the citizens and shall refer them to the competent authorities. The occupier is considering only the performances and complaints of individuals, according to a representative of the occupier. This explains its passivity to the presentation of Croatian citizens asking for the help of the Ombudsman's staff because Republika Srpska is not paying their pensions according to the solutions. In the following debate, the Committee members asked for more information on issues relating to the status rights of citizens, acquisition of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and problems with the interpretation of the Personal Name Act. The fact has been established that some Croatian citizens are allowed to enter names and last names consisting of two or more words in passports and IDs while others are being crossed and asked to decide which part of the last name will be used in their passport or ID card. Apparently, the parents are calling for a guideline from the Central State Administration Office. A representative of the Central State Administration Office, however, pointed out that the data presented in the debate, as well as copies of the article in the "Evening List" could conclude that the Central State Administration Office did not issue a guidance on the registration of a personal name of more than one word. In accordance with the Law on the State Administration System, the guidance may be issued if the law authorises the Head of the Central Authority to provide guidance on how to work with the purpose of making the guidance must be published in the "National Journal". The article published in the "Evening List" shows that it is not an indication within the meaning of the law but probably an individual case that was given in the Mother's Office in Rijeka. Members of the Committee hold that civil servants are too often bureaucratic, do not differ from instructions. There are still a number of complaints about the slow resolution of requests for entry into Croatian citizenship by the Ministry of the Interior explain part of the lack of awareness of diplomatic staff, the passiveness of parties, the different understanding of the membership of the Croatian people of the Ministry of Interior and the Committee on Immigration. The Committee president recalled that the second and third generation emigration did not possess documents that included nationality or that did not include citizenship until now. Cases have been repeated for a part of the family to receive Croatian citizenship. The second part was rejected even though they are from the same parents and are being approached with a request for a solution to the reception of the Croatian citizenship of the brother or sister. The interior ministry's representative hopes that within a year, the Ministry of the Interior could shorten the process of resolving applications for citizenship to 4 months. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006 is being taken into account first. Secondly, the Committee will request from the Central State Administration Office an indication of the interpretation and application of the Personal Name Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88090	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening... I'm opening a debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88091	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Attorney General, deputies. At the beginning, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I would like to warn and reiterate and strongly support the warning given by the Ombudsman in the opening statement in which we are, and I hope the Croatian public warns that the demands of judges or part of the judicial circle on the ban on public commenting of the judgments do not go well, which shows a large part of this report for the past year. I also want to believe that this message and the finding of the Ombudsman himself will not be in the interest of the public and ours only today when we are discussing this report but also when possible pressures for such a change of legislation could become the subject of an official debate in Parliament. What's a mere lawyer? Our legal authority has given him the frameworks to assist, monitor and assist the citizens of this country in the protection of their rights, but to warn us, advise and suggest what we, as a Parliament, must make the violation of rights as little as possible. Where and how to eliminate shortcomings, failures, misunderstandings that they have encountered in their work? And over and over again in every annual report, they're trying very hard to do this very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, In my debate, I would only stay in two areas of this report without feeling that they were less important. But pension insurance every year is the area where there are the largest number of cases that the attorney general deals with. Last year, of 1655 cases 343 referred to the area of pension insurance. It is slightly less than a year earlier, but again it is the single largest area or area with the largest number of complaints from citizens. Why is it so I do not understand it, and I cannot understand that for several years now, neither the Administrative Board of the Pension Insurance Office nor the directors who are changing head of this Office are taking or reporting to us on measures taken to reduce the number of these objections and complaints of citizens. And it's a population that's also in such an age that is both objectively difficult or harder to know and familiar with its rights and harder to come by. The first case, described by the Ombudsman in the area by a citizen if I am not mistaken from Zagreb for the area of pension insurance, which he filed in 1999 with the Constitutional Court for Pension Reform in 1998 from the field of disability. The occupier further states that it has come to the realization that the Croatian Parliament has reached some conclusion regarding disabled workers and has asked the government to provide him with an analysis of the situation of disabled workers, which the government should have concluded. And the occupier finds that the government's analysis has not been obtained. You couldn't even get it because, despite Parliament's conclusion of 19 November 2004, which, on a proposal from the ruling majority of the Parliament, concluded that it obliges the Government to draw up a full analysis of the material situation of disabled workers as soon as possible and to deliver such an analysis at the debate to the Croatian Parliament until today. She just didn't make it up. ... Thank you, colleague Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This point and debate in Parliament regarding the situation of disabled workers were offered by our Club of Representatives and in a vote on this proposal for conclusions our proposals for conclusions were then not accepted but the one he was now quoting to you. According to data provided by the Ministry of Peace in December 2006, a pension with the title of disability is received by 236 thousand users, and in that most difficult group with a coefficient or a factor of 0333 is two thousand 646 citizens of this country. After a year and a few days. In fact, on 1 December 2005, I asked the prime minister where and when will the analysis be done and where and when will we discuss it? So the conclusion was also made in November 2004. The question was December 1st, 2005. I got an answer in January 2006. That's usually the most comprehensive answer to one representative question I've asked so far from which I'll only quote two sentences. I recall, on January 24, 2006, the reply reads: “The mentioned working group, which has been amended in the meantime, continues to work on an analysis of the overall material situation of disabled people and finding a solution to unify the basic amounts of giving. ” Finally, a full analysis of new incentive measures for employment and self-employment of disabled persons through the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund will be possible only after full implementation of the law and decision. In the meantime, not one full, but two full decisions, a year of law enforcement and that decision has passed. But there's still no analysis. In point two or two of the case, the Ombudsman informs us that on 8 December 2006, he submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality in that area and that the addition of this report was not decided by the Constitutional Court. On the second of February 2001, the Croatian Federation of Persons with Disabilities of Labour also applied to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for an assessment of the constitutionality of the same law or of the same provisions of the law and the Constitutional Court did not make any decision on this basis either. It is the same Constitutional Court, which has caused nothing and has made no demands to make a decision to return zero five years of salary allowance to past work and to ourselves, and we should not have waited eight years, nine. He's made nothing and made a decision, and it's very soon about extending the working age for women workers in this country. But for these 55,000 disabled workers covered by the pension reform with temporary care, transferred to a permanent disability pension with halved material rights of the Constitutional Court's verdict, and neither is it known when it will be. Now, if the Constitutional Court isn't a place that would quickly and effectively restore a certain right and give words to whom the attorney general can speak more. Case three chosen at random. An appeal by citizens awaiting the first 59-month case for the Pension Insurance Service to issue a pension solution. 59 months and only after the intervention of the Advocate General, the applicant has been given a decision to have the right to retire in accordance with his request. Case number two. D.D. from S. probably Split or something like that submitted a request for recognition of the right to retire from 9 June '98. The case has been resolved on this outcome since 12 May 2006 or exactly 95 months after the application. And he's been granted a pension since that day since man asked. Case number four. The application for recognition of the right to pension has been resolved by this little better precisely 86 months from the application. Again after repeated in this case of repeated intervention of the arraignment attorney. If anyone, I don't know who's responsible for this, but I'm really interested in whether the Director of the Peace Department has handed someone over to a disciplinary court or what it's called in the public administration. Is someone being replaced for this? Is this an honor for Croatia to get a worker, waiting for a decision to retire 95 months and nothing to anyone. Nothing to anyone! Only three examples I have cited, and each year such examples are listed in the Ombudsman’s report. If this is the conclusion that we accept a report from the occupier, and if only for the sake of such a conclusion, this booklet should come to us, I propose to the occupier to submit the report on two sheets of paper next year. We do our job, no one listens to us. You won't change anything in Parliament and that's my report, our report. You know what kind of savings that would be? The second part of which I would like to look at the evaluation and proposals where the Ombudsman once again warns us that both in 2004 and the fifth and sixth there were no more serious developments in the organisation of the work of the state administration, the public administration and the introduction mentioned the longevity of the administrative procedure, the frequency of repealing the solution and the return to first-degree resolution is something that we have to resolve as Parliament because otherwise there is no possibility of protecting the right, and that from the recommendations in 2006, the Office of State Administration began to address one of the six recommendations made. And his report ends with five points of the proposal again. It's not six, this time it's five. We are a club of representatives to you, colleagues and colleagues, offering a brief conclusion that the Assembly would oblige the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Law to discuss within three months together or separately anyway these five proposals by the Advocate General and come before Parliament with proposals that we need to amend, in which part, in order to finally enable the Ombudsman to carry out what he sees as the biggest part of the problem. I believe the three-month term for these three committees is not too short. I would like to believe that the Ombudsman will be happy to participate in the work of these three committees and to help and to suggest which regulations are created by such a legal system in Croatia which we find not good, that we know how to fix it, that it will not require greater or almost no financial resources especially in some solutions. I hope that we will finally accept the fact that without the right of the attorney general in the judicial district, we will have no more significant shifts in the state of justice, especially because of this profession, that profession is then part of the government, if I may say so, trying to shut it in myself, not allowing anyone to comment on their work and not on the public defender. It's not acceptable for us. And finally, given that that analysis of the state of the disabled work has never been made, but in this response, the government has listed some 176 measures and actions that the government has done, perhaps this committee will help the attorney general, so I will gladly hand it over to him and let him see at least that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88092	Thank you. SDSS Club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88093	Dear President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, I will start from the end of the report by the Ombudsman, from the part in which he asks some questions and expects the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, and, after that, I suppose, the plenary session of this House answers these questions. The question whether or not to continue to establish special defences or to strengthen the constitutional institution of the Ombudsman. An unusually important question, because we already have a lawyer for gender equality and counsel for children, and there are already proposals and lawyers for disabled persons, for elderly persons and pensioners, and if we continue to do so, we can expect that there will be more of these initiatives. On the one hand, the number of lawyers for specific areas is increasing, and on the other hand, the Ombudsman still does not have adequate working conditions. There's no adequate space, there's not enough staff, there's no money to work on the ground, but that work covers from donations. And this statistics at the beginning shows that the largest number of complaints from the City of Zagreb are much lower from other cities. Well, the City of Zagreb is the city with the highest population which is logical on the one hand, but it can refer this statistics to not enough coverage in the rest of Croatia, i.e. that the citizens outside of Zagreb where the seat of the Ombudsman is located do not have enough easy access to his office because they can address him in writing it is quite safe, but it is probably a direct contact when they can explain their situation far better quality. So in the government's testimony to these proposals by the attorney general, there's nothing to be said. The government doesn't show up on them. I don't know why, I can be two reasons. Either the reports haven't been read to the end because it's at the very end of the report or they think it's completely irrelevant what the Ombudsman is proposing, so they have absolutely no need to talk about it, but not a single word. We take this initiative, we don't accept, we think she's smart, we think she's stupid, nothing. Another important thing that the attorney general warns at the end of the report is the constitutional indemnity of the attorney general in the control of the work of the courts. The situation in the judiciary is catastrophic. The dispute of the trial calls into question the rule of law in this country. So many objects go into oblivion. You know, when an object goes into obsolescence, then it's an injustice, we don't really know if there's going to be any release judgment or any other legal outcome, we don't know anything about it. But if some kind of dispute has been initiated, especially in criminal cases, then the non-declaration of the sentence due to the falling of the case into obsolescence is actually a deep... Such cases, unfortunately, are very many, and no one is actually responsible for it. [[You don't understand.]] The State Judicial Council shall not take any action in this respect, in the majority drawn up by the judges. But everyone is sore when anyone dares to say anything about the work of the courts. Because at the same time, this is declared by interference in the independence of the judiciary or by forcing a judicial official. It goes so far that, say, the Association of Judges asked the State's Attorney to initiate criminal proceedings against a journalist who had dared to write that one judge had several convictions liberating for the notorious known members of the underworld. There's a prosecution to be sought for a journalist. These are normally released, because these do not pose a social harm and social danger, but the journalist who dared write about the judge is a social danger, so he needs to be prosecuted. That's the position of the Association of Judges. These are the people who give a picture of justice and justice in this country. Well, she said one columnist the other day that the judge would probably be relieved of his duties only if he got naked on a tree and shot at the citizens from there, and five more would have to kill them. I guess that's the only condition he has to meet so he can be relieved of his duties. In such conditions, it is necessary to consider an initiative to amend the Constitution and extend the responsibilities of the ombudsman. All right, now, from the end of the report, we are going to go into its midst, for example, to show the way this public defender works, his sensitivity to human rights violations. The example comes from the field of education. In some process of competition for foreign language students, three pupils were disqualified from a further competition, which takes place first at school level, at school level, then at the county level and then finally at the state level. So already at this first, at the first school level they were disqualified. The students did not commit any of the actions that would indicate the founding of their disqualification, the father of one was the complainant and the civil defender took urgent measures. There wasn't much time, three weeks to the next level of competition, and he e-mailed the Secretary of State. His intervention was successful. It was seen that there was really nothing to blame there, that it was unfairly disqualified, that it was the blame of those who evaluated her work at that first degree, one banal error of course that could happen and probably in school is happening to hundreds of examples. I liked this example, and I point it out because it illustrates the sensitivity of the attorney general to human rights violations. Its correct conclusion that intervention will lead to the strengthening of the confidence of students, to strengthen their motivation for further work and long-term instilling in them a sense of belonging to a society that appreciates human rights and which is indeed democratic. The students went to the county competition, which led to the intervention of the occupier's lawyer taking second place in the county competition and moved on to the state level. We're not lucky that the government reacts as sensitive to human rights violations as a public defender does. That's what this report testifies to. The violation of the human rights of civilian people with disabilities and disability has already been discussed by his colleague, Lesar, described the example, so I won't repeat it. I'm interested in something else here. I'm reading a report on the government's opinions on the police attorney's report. It is said that the Government has tasked the competent authorities with taking appropriate measures in the course of their work to remove the irregularities mentioned in the report. And what does the Attorney General say about the government? That it did not provide it with a report and analysis, as well as information or drawn up in accordance with the Parliament’s preliminary conclusion, this analysis of the situation of disabled workers. The government warns itself that it respects the demands of a mere lawyer that she does not respect. He doesn't even let him know so he can tell him, but dear sir, we can't send you this report because we didn't make it, we didn't make it, so we don't have anything to send you, but the government went deaf at the request of an attorney general who cares. But that's why he says he owes himself to act in accordance with the demands of the attorney general. What the government's relationship with disabled workers was said by some colleague Lesar. The government has a strange relationship with the disabled. She shares the disabled according to origin, the cause of disability. So, let's say the blind people were there the other day in the Parliament, visiting the Parliament, a blind person who had blindness due to the death in the Homeland War or as a disabled, the civilian disabled World War II has this disability of three thousand kunas, and disabled labor, for example. It has 400 or 250 kuna. He doesn't see one, he doesn't see the other. The stick needs both. That's how the government treats disabled workers. Here we will probably discuss tomorrow or in a few days the proposal to declare the National Work Protection Day. Handsome, convenient, but what is the attitude towards disabled workers, this is described in this example. Croatian Pension Insurance Office. I'm not going to read the cases, but here's an example. Case 170/06 has been found to be a violation of the law... In view of the long-term nature of the procedure and the non-compliance with the provision of Article 296. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The General Administrative Procedure Act. Case 420/02 found grave violation of the law... For reasons of undue long duration of the procedure and non-compliance with the provision of Article 296. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The General Administrative Procedure Act. Case 459/04 same thing. There's no end. One ministry, the Ministry of Interior, Minister Kirina, stands out here in particular. Minister Kirin seems to have banned me from public appearances, which is a great shame. This is the whole public, especially the visitors to the portal have been cut off for an unsanitary source of joy, but I think that despite this ban, Minister Kirin would have to be made manifest about what is written here by a public defender because police officers are systematically scrambling in the ministry. They're being relocated. It's being described here from a lower position without an explanation. When they complain about it, no one responds, let them go to the Administrative Court. How long will this Administrative Court take? It may take 10 years, until then Minister Kirin will no longer be a minister, but such a relationship with a police officer, to a state deputy, forgive me, is inadmissible. Move him without any valid explanation he has the right to break, deliberately breaking the laws, and then cynically refer him to him and let him be tried in the Administrative Court that is inadmissible for a minister. That's not supposed to happen. Minister Calmeta, he doesn't even count on what the Attorney General is asking him to do. And there's human rights violations right to rebuild. I'm sorry, it stops being a case there. That's where the obvious intention is. She's a systematic sycamore as described by the attorney general. However, there seems to be no responsibility for the minister’s behavior that shows that there is no one from the government here today. No one. And that's what this is about. About how the ministers worked. It's none of their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88094	Thank you. Voice from...... Wakey voice, voice of awakeness. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88095	Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, Deputy Attorney-General of the Police, colleagues and colleagues! The HDZ Club doesn't see everything as negative and black as my colleagues used to say. First of all, I want to evaluate this work report, the methodology as it is done, and I have to admit that we are already used to the public defender actually delivering one very whole, summed up and very correct report where we have a series of data, we have numerical indicators, we have graphs, we have depictions and descriptions of specific items, we have an assessment of the situation by various segments and, of course, a very correct proposal of measures. Therefore, Mr. Attorney-General very positive reviews for this report that you have actually already used to present us in this way, and in fact your previous Mr. Klaric also had such a methodology. What is the basic feature of this report, and what can be concluded after reading the report? One word, it's the length of the proceedings, the slowness of the procedures of the administration and the judiciary. However, I do want a little bit of a stat here, and yet I want to do a little polishing, because if we take it that in the last year we received a thousand 655 complaints, if I'm correct, there were 266 complaints concerning the work of the courts, based on these complaints, I don't think we can make a general and general assessment of the situation either in the judiciary or in the administration. And that's primarily for one single reason because we don't have total management data as much as we do in administrative cases, how many of these administrative cases are solved within, how many out of time, how many over a long period? We don't have that information primarily. We don't actually have the data or how many administrative objects do we have in the work or how much was received last year? It's certainly hundreds of thousands, I'd dare say more than a million. If we're compatriate, if there's a million of these objects here and more, quite certainly more because in fact our whole life you've known is covered with various objects. You're going to get a building permit, you're going to report the fact of birth, you're going to report the fact of death, you're going to take out your passport, you're going to change your identity card, it's all administrative procedures. It's all management. Now, if, in relation to that whole number, of all these cases, we get to the data that we have a thousand and 200, a thousand and 300 and some complaints, then it's not such a large number of complaints, or I wouldn't agree that under these complaints we can assess the situation. You know, I agree that a lot of things in management are wrong and there's a lot of room for management to improve. It's primarily necessary I'd say informative. But here it is now, published some day data that in this very year, the Government will invest 1.23 billion kuna in the project. The record amount was invested in 2004 in 500 million kuna. Well, now we have e.Croatia, e.J., e.G., e.E. Education, e.Health, therefore, in the information of the administration, which is a prerequisite for the efficiency and resolution of this issue of longevity and is very much investing. What do we need? Of course, we'll need the personnel. People who don't run away from the administration because their wages are nothing, because their wages are low. And then when any company shows up, of course it goes for 500 kuna or a thousand kunas, a thousand 500 kuna goes to work somewhere. Well, now we've made certain you know steps, and if we compose these salaries of our civil servants and tenants in 2003, 2002, now at 2007, it's not that important, but the wages are higher. That's definitely it. I have a friend in the IRS who's had an offer to go to some company, but he's certainly stayed in the IRS because his salary I don't know in the last few years with five grand went to seven and something. That's kind of polite. Although there should be more. But it's a matter of budget. Of course, we also have to provide materially with all those tools that she needs to have. These people in the administration must also have laptops, they must have vehicles, they must mean when they come to the field they absolutely have everything they need. I completely agree, and that's what I'm repeating here, and this is the fourth time I've had this mandate to speak on behalf of our club about a report by a police attorney. This is a very good remark and I repeat it every year. There's one measure that doesn't cost, which is absolutely free, and that's if the solution that he's brought to some administrative reference, the officer filed a complaint then smart, correct reference won't let that complaint go to the second degree, that the case goes to the second degree if he finds it justified. He can change his own solution in that appeal. So is the one who solves in the second degree if he takes administrative action, it's so-called. the casator's authority which the administrative procedure knows unlike the litigator's because it has to be a little faster, a little more dynamic, a little more elastic. So it's definitely a affected measure and it's really a matter that ministers within their ministries have to work very hard on. There is something about the administration in your report that seems to me to be a little bit of a question mark, because you said at the end of the last two annual reports that you are expressing your conviction that the decentralisation and transfer of administrative tasks to local units should be accelerated in order to improve the functioning of the administration in the Republic of Croatia and that the salaries of officials in the state administration should be harmonised with those in the local administration, and the salaries of the most professional and necessary category of civil servants should be increased. I definitely agree, wages should be increased because there is a huge disproportionate between wages in local self-government and the state administration. In the state administration, it should indeed be precisely in the systematisation to see what are the key places, and those places should indeed be paid, and officials and such officials should be kept. But here with regard to the transfer of administrative jobs to local units, we need to pull back a little bit, which would say manually, because we remember in the 1990s, we had those municipalities that de facto maltene had a feature of the state, which also carried out administrative procedures, which were also units of local self-government. We had that in '93. the year and the county where you had the county which was at the same time also a unit of local and regional self-government regional but was within the county as a whole state administration. It is precisely by respecting this European Convention on Local Self-Government that we have removed this State Administration and put out, so that, when transferring these administrative powers to the county or to cities, there should be no duality in power. What we are also discussing is what we have all mentioned and, of course, you are always commenting in your report because even though you do not have that authority under the Constitution, but every year you receive at least a third of the almost complaints about the work of the judiciary. I agree with all those who say that the situation in the judiciary is not good and, of course, everyone who says it is not a very special mind because it is so notable and so visible that everyone who comes simply sees it and these are also the warnings of both the European Union and all the negotiators who come here. However, I would like to say that many good things have been done here. And if we compete with both 2000 and 2003 and today in 2007 we can only say the following. In 2003, we had a million and a half or even more than a million and a half unsolved items. Today, by taking all those measures that we have finally established in this House through legal projects, we have come today that it is about a million or even a little less than a million, so that these 266 complaints relating to the slowness of the courts should also be seen in this context that something is moving, that something is happening in that part too. I fully agree with these statements that this one item should not be closed, and it should not be, because the court proceedings are ultimately according to principles and procedural laws, these are public proceedings, however, and there should be a measure so that in all these comments and all these inscriptions are not done and one pressure that is actually created in such a way. On constitutional powers, we also discussed the powers of the attorney general for justice last year, and in principle I think that we have all said that since the Ombudsman is our attorney-in-chief of the Parliament, that that would be good. However, as you know, we cannot do so simply by amending the law. The Constitution should be amended. I regret my colleagues that this has not been changed and that such a provision in the Constitution did not enter when the Constitution changed in 2002 it seems to me twice. It was just that the provisions on the occupier had been changed that such a provision had not entered. In any case such an initiative was adopted, however, the Constitution would only change because it would not be too serious and it would be necessary to wait for a small number of initiatives to go into the amendments to the Constitution because if we changed too often we would not give the impression of a very serious country. As for your proposal to discuss on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and to open one debate, here I can say from this place that I have no objection to organising one round table, something similar has already been but not on this subject but on one other, to open a debate on how and in what direction to develop the institutes of the other civil defenders. In a certain way, it has already been mentioned here that we are coming to a small inflation of these institutions, but on the other hand, I must say that both Mrs. Mila Jelavic and Mrs. Lukač-Koritnik have already been profiled on this social scene and have already become recognizable in the segment in which they operate. Perhaps it would be good to do within your institution to be attorneys means for these special segments by making them recognizable that they have their identity exactly for a particular area and that some professional service and that you also have some co-ordinated and general powers in relation to that. It's a purely principled proposal, but I agree that we should open a debate about it. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this report. It simply finds certain facts, it is one collection of complaints that took place on the ground. But I have to say, either way, we can't assess whether it's like this or not. We'll be able to assess the situation when it's applied to the end of this recommendation that's being respected, which means that now it's actually keeping records of these administrative cases by the ministries. When we have that, then we'll know how many objects we have in the work, how many things are solved within the time limit, how many things are not solved. So we accept this report, and it's really very good as it is these previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88096	Thank you. PGS club, SBH, MDS respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88097	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Police Attorney and Associates, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, on behalf of the club of regional PGS parties, SBHS, the IMF therefore refer to the report of the Ombudsman. Our club supports, so it strongly supports this report. It also strongly supports the work of the attorney general and the civil defender in the Republic of Croatia, but we also share the dissatisfaction and concern and the Ombudsman himself because of some things we think are not good at. In its report, the Ombudsman also points out that in 2006, unfortunately, as the report also states, it unfortunately began... only one of the six recommendations made by the vacancy attorneys referred to in the previous reports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also said that the situation concerning the number of cases which they have handled is almost equal to those warned by the Ombudsman about the 2004 and 2005 reports. So despite everything that's been stated to have changed, the situation almost hasn't changed in the judiciary. So that's one indicator of the situation in the judiciary. What is pointed out is that in 2006, the largest number of complaints made by citizens to the Ombudsman concerned the long-term sustainability of administrative procedures and procedures and the non-treatment of administrative authorities in this respect, and less part of the illegalities or irregularities of their decisions and acts. I would quote here a passage that speaks of legal certainty that I think is very important and that I think we should all pay attention to. I don't think anyone pointed it out today. So in this department, legal certainty, paragraph 2, is pointed out, I quote: "In reality, the longevity of the procedure most affects the weak and the poor. On the one hand, the most common solution to the subject in the process is a vital issue that requires a quick resolution, and on the other hand, those who have power and money, and most often both of them usually realize the resolution of their cases within shorter deadlines." I think that this is one serious warning from a public defender based on arguments, so time to imagine and take some steps, concrete steps to change that. And that's where I primarily think about introducing a free legal aid institute. However, as for those who are potential users of free legal aid, so those poor people in the Republic of Croatia are unfortunately very, very much today. Here we read in today's newspaper that 18% of the poor are in Croatia. That's it. that out of the thirty European countries for which Eurostat has collected data in front of Croatia, there are 21 countries and there are fewer poor people with them than with us. And what is important is that in Croatia, according to Eurostat data, the poorest citizens of 65 years of age are the poorest. So our pensioners who therefore have small pensions and, as such, with these small pensions cannot ask for quality legal assistance. It also warns that the Ministry of Justice is not monitoring enough efforts and efforts within the judicial system. In other issues of judicial reform, it is difficult not to spot a deficit in the ministry's reform capacity. This is also witnessed by the absence of even initial measures and activities for the necessary rationalisation of courts. I am, in particular, stressing the multi-annual failure to resolve the system of free legal aid or to amend the Law on Attorneyship in respect of the tariff and its adoption. The absence of any proposals for solutions to the issues of the Administrative Court. So we see this connection in non-resolvement of the legal problems, i.e. in the long term of proceedings which in direct correlation with social status. Also, the government does not come out with its proposal that would in some way mitigate this. the legal introduction of a system of free legal assistance. At the end of last year, it seems to me that on 6 November 2006, he sent a letter to the government in which he pointed out, so he pointed out that an urgent adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance has been being prepared for a long time and urged the Ministry of Justice to refer the draft law to the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible and to report to the public about any obstacles. Malcic, in a letter, quotes the newspaper article sent to Minister Ani Lovrin, states that the existing restrictive and deficit legal arrangement of free legal aid does not guarantee all citizens the right to access to justice regardless of their economic or social status. The immediate adoption of the law is also required by the Advocate General to secure the necessary money in the 2007 budget. Malcic also asks for amendments to the Law on Attorneyship because the existing model of pricing of legal services does not know any European system. He proposed introducing and prescribing fixed or recommended tariffs to legal or sublaw regulations, so as to make legal services more affordable for prices. On the basis of this article, I prepared i.e. and addressed the parliamentary issue on 30 November to the Minister of Justice, Ms. Ani Lovrin, with the question of what will the Ministry of Justice do to improve the system of free legal assistance, i.e. when will they propose a law on free legal aid? The answer arrived relatively quickly on December 5, 2006. I also quote: The Ministry of Justice is working to prepare the draft Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. Clearances of the competent central authorities of the state administration whose objections are being examined by the Ministry’s professional services have been collected. After taking all steps in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the draft law will be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for consideration. So that was December 2006. It's mid-2007. No sign of that law. And the bill's work proposal was already ready in the government on 21 June 2005. In 2005, the final law is therefore waiting in the government. I think it's irresponsible, irresponsible behavior of the Ministry and the Government and we think it should be changed as soon as possible. Here's our PGS club, the NDS next week, will refer the law, the government law, to the parliamentary procedure precisely to force the government to declare it. Why the Institute of Free Legal Assistance? So far, certain citizens of natural persons have been able to use the institute in Croatia, but through certain associations, through certain NGOs and through certain political parties. Here's an example of the coastal-goran alliance that introduced that institute. We could say free legal aid at a small door in several municipalities. They hired a lawyer who receives people and therefore tries to give them free advice or directs them how to cope with our legal system. It is as far as I know a unique case of certain political parties in the Republic of Croatia. I said before that some associations or NGOs are currently doing this in Croatia to protect human rights. So, which provides free legal assistance. But they are faced with a problem of legality and activity because of the provisions of the Law on Attorneyship. Under this law, legal aid as an interest should only be dealt with by lawyers, so the Penal Code incriminates unauthorized enforcement by providing legal assistance as a criminal offence to the superior offices. Due to not quite precise legal provisions, it is doubtful that, in addition to the unauthorised provision of legal aid, it would also be considered to be a free legal aid provided by NGOs. These ambiguities produce problems of registration for the performance of that activity, and their lawyers are exposed to the dangers of prosecution. Here is today's current situation in the Republic of Croatia. Giving free legal assistance is certainly not the discovery of the NGO sector in Croatia. It has been extremely developed in countries of Western democracy as an activity that falls within the broader context of humanitarian work with appropriate legal support. Their experience could be used to regulate the position and activity in Croatia as well. Here, I also have an example here of an ad from the United States where this free legal aid was developed. The advertisement is in Croatian, unfortunately not translated. This ad is presented in such a way both in America, the United States of America in newspapers or on the Croatian-language web. So we see how it is out there in the United States because this institute is developed so those who are immigrants are aware that they can use this institute of free legal aid. So, this organization provides free legal assistance for people with lower incomes living in the state of Mein, housing, tax problems, housing, access to health care, school problems, divorces, parental rights, and some, including some government programmes. They're ordering you to call us or go to the nearest office. If you do not speak English immediately look for an interpreter we will find it for free. Here we think, therefore, that this institute of free legal aid is very important for the Republic of Croatia. We said because of the one party that the social situation in the Republic of Croatia is still such that many people who need this help, and because of the level of legal tariffs, because of the length of the procedure, cannot simply fight financially, so follow the length of the procedure and often do not even enter the dispute or give up the dispute, and we think that this law would have to enter the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. So, introduce that institute, and then we're thinking that just a report from the attorney general would be different. And so the message is that we support the work of the attorney general so that we insist that it be done as soon as possible. Introduce those measures that have not been introduced so far, which are also insisted on by the Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88098	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88099	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Attorney General. A colleague has just incorrectly stated a few things. I will, for the sake of a true explanation and correction to the public, tell. Under the Law on Attorneyship and Legal Assistance, there is a basis for this law to provide free legal assistance in Croatia. It's very useful, it's very developed, and the only lawyers on the basis of the law provide free legal assistance. The bar tariff was also adopted in accordance with the law and regulations and less than in all other countries surrounding us. These are the exact things and many lawyers have become lawyers because they could not get a second job and regularly, daily, hard work deserves a reward because it is a tariff in prizes and expenses is not a price list.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88100	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88101	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. It seems to me that the legal tariffs in Croatia are up to ten times bigger than in Germany. They're not? That's not true. Okay, but the receipts are ten times bigger than Germany. But let's drop these tariffs now, but that should also be the subject of the work of the attorney general. It's good that the number of complaints received is dropping and not growing. It is not good, however, that the authorities ignore the instructions of the attorney general, and that the same Ombudsman is waiting longer than this legal deadline. More specifically, it has to beg the answers, but to whom it applies. This applies primarily to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Then, at the Ministry of the Sea, tourism doesn't surprise me. But what surprises us is that this group belongs to the Ministry of Justice. More specifically, the Civil Law Administration, which will be highly spotless in another situation where justice should be shared. But anyway, the truth is next. It's hardly anyone's attorney can help. That's an ugly thing to say, but it's literally like that. And it's a good thing he's trying and what he's trying to do isn't too small. As a rule, he is clearly addressed by poor people who are no longer there for whom or for what they catch, and those who have something will take good care of themselves anyway. That's what happened. So it will be and the people can be deceived, and it is good that this debate goes on in the afternoon. But the people have that poor woman, saying that she is “an orphan and a heavy God. ” Yeah, that's a big handicap, but let's let it go now. If that's how you see it, gentlemen, the words confirm it, this table on page 9. Most complaints refer to pension rights, then refurbishment rights, judicial authority. There were then persons deprived of liberty, 120 of them, 152 of them complained to the occupier, then construction, denationalisation, etc. Why are pension requirements in the first place? First, it's an existence. Often that pension looks like that last grease. When you enter that pension system, it may not apply to us, it is difficult for someone else to do something else. It's becoming a burden. Who? Clear than your own. Because how else do we interpret the assessment that there are 62,000 people in this country who are receiving a pension? From 500 to 1,000 kuna receive the pension of 116 thousand people. From a thousand to a thousand 500 kuna of them 156 thousand 293. From a thousand 500 to 2,000 kuna 295 thousand and 16. A total of 629,000,770 citizens of this country are receiving a pension below 2 thousand kuna. In this country, we can say that somewhere 600,000 people have become social cases. And it's done a good part of working life, well, it's not exactly because 80 or 90% of these people have some property, an apartment, a house, a lot of cottages. On average, Croatian citizens are owners of more apartments than in Germany, Austria or neighbouring Italy and that is the same, or England, and that is, in Italy may not, but in England yes, and that is also interesting. But soon if these old ones don't equalize -- new ones, I think that 630 thousand will increase significantly, etc. Because from year to year, the number of new pensioners is increasing by cca. $30,000, and due to death, the number of old pensioners is down by cca. Thirty grand. And now I'm not talking about statistics as many new ones – the old 2004, 2005, 2006. But that's about 30,000 a year, or minus. Secondly, in Croatia, 1.39 workers come clearly to the pensioners. In the European Union, this ratio is 1:3 and this problem can only be solved by the creation of new jobs. But what are we gonna do? Unemployment is 16%. In some parts like Istria, I don't know, 6.7%, in Zagreb 8, 9. But I am also convinced that if Croatia wants to preserve existing economic growth, it will be in a situation that it will have to import labour. What can the Ombudsman do now when the average pension in 2001 was 43.6% of the average salary, 2005. 41.32%, 2006. 39.7%, and by tomorrow, women will have to retire at 65 years of age. Because now women live on average as much as seven, eight years longer than men. But that the Constitutional Court went too far. And so, through some positive discrimination on women who have given birth should give a bonus, I don't know, from one and a half to two years, just like we who were in the military, not in the Homeland War, but in the military, that period of, say, a year, a year or a half or two would have to be included in the job. If nothing else 0.5% now makes a man happy, clearly, welcome, dear God. But let's let it go now. We're going to talk about these pensions more clearly soon. But let me just say that this problem is solved by new jobs, by economies, not by promises. Why do I mention these pensions, or pension insurance? Because on the side, the Ombudsman literally says that because of the length of the proceedings, the parties are most often addressed to him. This procedure shall not take longer than 60 days if it clearly does not contain those international elements. It can happen because, I don't know, some irrational reason when someone from another country, other nationalities simply becomes almost impossible to solve their own existential problem. And retirement certainly can't be turned into that. These actions, in my deep conviction, should not last for more than 60 days in the domicile population. Because that's how we somehow make almost people have to go into that interface, and some people can wait for a pension for a year or so, so they have to dig through garbage cans if they don't have one of their loved ones. If that pension cannot provide a pensioner with a dignified age, then at least the administration of this country must not put that pensioner out. I repeat once again, 60 days is enough for the overbooked service that issues these solutions to be organised anyway and to solve the case. True, in 2004, I see there were 280 thousand and 16 new pensioners, 2005. 319 thousand 936. So in that year, he retired plus 39,000 920 people, and in 2006, there were new pensioners 352 thousand 169, which will say that he retired that year 32,000 233 new pensioners. So we need to process 32 to 40,000 requests annually. But I said, because of the dignity of the people who retire, it has to be done as soon as possible. Because by waiting for this country, it doesn't save, it just spends extra money. Foreign bodies are clearly seeing the story for themselves. But I'm just going to touch on these disability pensions that the attorney general is talking about on page 17. He literally says, if such disabled work is unemployed, that is, outside pension insurance, the amount of the new pension is determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 174, etc. using a specific pension factor of 0.66667 possible full disability pensions. Since 18 December 2002. The amendments to the Pension Insurance Act increased that factor to 0.8, only partially correcting the injustice. However, if the invalidity of work is employed or benefits the former right to work with reduced working hours, 4 hours, in accordance with Article 174. The IMO or the IMO after the application of the IMO, 1 January '99, established a professional inability to work and established a working relationship or started to engage in any other activity in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, shall be recalculated by the application of a second pension factor which is only 0.333 of its disability pension, which is only 1/3 of the disability pensions." It's a done quote. I mean, the disabled can't be cut off. If they've been deprived of their disability since 1.1.99, as I understand this argument, then, like pensioners, the debt has to be paid back these eight years. What it cost to cost, it's our moral obligation. In these cases, it would be concluded that the occupier is in some way a retirement counselor, but I repeat, there is a damned problem when someone has to address the vacancy attorney or when they have to seek free legal aid on the other hand. Otherwise, Croatia has the inflation of these defenders, so we have the gender equality thing, for defenders, students, pensioners, for children, what I know about disabled people, pensioners now, and I would suggest this is what happens to some courts and the fact that Istrian can't go to agricultural land to form one defendership for the Istrians. But I don't want to talk about it now, even if we let go. Otherwise, these attorneys should all be reduced to one hat, so with seven or eight referendums, because what we have today, by my deep conviction, I've always said that, it just doesn't make sense. Otherwise, it would also be interesting to see where the most complaints go to the occupier, more specifically in which town, in which county, etc. It's an interesting chapter about, say, penitentiary. The completeness of Varazdin 185, Sisak 130, Požega 150, means 50% more than under the quotes "capacities". The integrity of these persons should also be protected. I don't think that these people should be protected as in the case of one Oreshkovic who was fired for allegedly hemorrhoids, but I repeat the integrity of these people should be protected, I don't know about food, hygiene, outdoor stay, air, the capacity of the penitentiary. But it will be that the new council will need a parliament, reach deeper into the budget and open funds for new penitentiary facilities, but let's let it go now. But that's not why I'm answering. I'm more of a caller when we're talking about these penitentiary rooms and when we talk about that pretense, I'm talking about something else. What are the relationships there, let's play this fight where it was in Leprechaun or Gradiška. I'm reading today, Cvik, this drug dealer from Korčula prison had a cell phone, drugs coming in as much as he wants, probably dealing around the building, and a little bit more money, a clear man is looking forward to it, etc. In our prisons this is a problem, it can be done by drugs as well as children's playgrounds, with schools and it talks enough about the entire structure, the judicial police, the Ministry of Interior or the judiciary, etc. How can you get drugs in one pulsar, barbaric, and IV prison? If you can get drugs in prison, then you can ask yourself what's just going on in the middle of the school, next to the playgrounds, next to the halls, etc. All in all, I think it is very good to read this report because it is a kind of social and humanitarian map of the Republic of Croatia. The situation in the country is clear because of these social moments is not pink, depending on everything you look at the corner, I said in Croatia more citizens own property, i.e. apartments, cottages etc. but what is the case with the number of inhabitants in one Germany or England, but far away from them, we can compare ourselves with them. Or, for example, for a full-time pension in Croatia, 63% is the same as in Germany, but it also cheats because in Croatia the average pension for full-time I don't know Mr. Hrelja can correct me, cca 400, I don't trust 500 euros, and in Germany four or five times more. Or the price of oil in Italy is 10% higher than in Croatia, but their receipts are two or three times higher than in Croatia. All in all, we all agree that this country can and deserves better. We had a war, we had a transition of conversion, etc. But I am deeply convinced that opportunities will go well, and now to whom this honor will belong to take the country in another direction, this will show the next election. All in all this report has no choice but to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88102	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88103	Mr. Vice President, I believe that in the heat of battle, that is, Mr. Cain's speech made two laps, but it's worth correcting. He says that tomorrow, women will retire at 65. Women can retire today at 65 and later, it is not a problem, and the Constitutional Court's decision will be binding when it turns into amendments and amendments to pension laws. It is only for now a decision that gives one reference, or one recommendation. And second, Mr. Cain, there's no counsel for the retired and the elderly. In the proposal, there is a draft law in the parliamentary procedure on the Ombudsman for pensioners and older people. I hope he'll be one day too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88104	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88105	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Malcic and the gentlemen of the deputy attorney general, colleagues and colleagues. Of course we will have this comprehensive report by the attorney general as much as it bothers anyone that it is comprehensive and as much as my colleague Lesar said it could have been on three pages, I think this report is very useful, that it shows a certain state in Croatian society and that it is worth the attention and that it should be accepted as such. Of course this is the subject of our analysis, that it is the subject of our conclusion in the Croatian Parliament, and that we will accept it. That this is the place and time to make concrete comments and suggestions about this report, and also to contribute to further reflection on the Croatian Assembly's privileges in the future, on their role and on what domain of responsibility and rights Croatian society will give them through the Croatian Parliament in the future. At first I will say it is our legitimate right of the Croatian Party of Retired to propose the Simeon for the pensioners and the elderly. We don't do it out of whim but out of necessity, and the other thing is, we'll make a deal. I am not reluctant to think about what Mr. Cain said here to be a defence attorney who has his own resources, but the fact is that we are going to push this idea further not only because we want to have a person who specializes in this, but because we believe that the public defender, that is, should have greater powers and greater influence on the overall legislative system of the Republic of Croatia and a greater impact on the functionality of the institutions of Croatian society. When we look at this table, of course, that the stagnation of the number of items is joyous, of course we should be satisfied, especially from the Croatian Party of Retirement, because unlike in 2005, when one quarter of the cases were from the pension system this time, it is only one-fifth of the year. However, you know me always these figures and my statistics always have a double meaning. I wonder if we have improved the functioning of our institutions so much or if citizens have lost confidence and yet another last institution, so they address it less than the objective needs of Croatian citizens. So we can always analyze these numbers with these two aspects. And otherwise my proposal is this friendly, it's collegiate that if it is and when it's the defender for the Istrians, I will personally make sure that from this pay phone I suggest that my colleague Caine be a lawyer, in which case it is known in advance that she can count on the job, and I ask you to free yourself of a room for such a job. What I find very useful for us in Croatia is the party of pensioners, but for you too, colleagues and colleagues is page 14 and 15 which speaks of the pension problem and which will be very useful for us in a few weeks when we are or months when we have a debate on the functioning of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Here are exactly the problems mentioned here in this, in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, one of the major problems is the payment of back-up pensions, but it is not the payment in the context of the speech of my predecessor to my colleague Caine, I think this is about the payment of pensions when the pension is re-activated by the citizens who have left Croatia and where they belong to the backlogs for the last three years and is an objective problem because we also have people who have been waiting for a year and a half to get their money that belongs to them by law. However, without ambition to say that our citizens are too to compare that guilt, that I am equating what the victim and the aggressor would say, I must say that even when the money comes to our citizens from neighbouring countries, so from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro is no better than it is even worse. This is where cases are recorded when our citizens are under international agreements between the institutions of Serbia-Montenegro, BiH are delivering late, with late documents and eventually money and they are very difficult to exercise their rights. It is not a better situation, although it is even worse with our citizens, so to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, from, excuse me, just to correct myself. This was sought by citizens who should receive from the Croatian pension. I say I make myself clear, and our citizens who are receiving pensions from BiH, from Serbia, Montenegro are not in a better situation. Of course, they write on solutions something that is unbearable for any legal system. It says that their pension is as high as in pension systems, for example. Republika Srpska's Brcko or the Federation of BiH or Vojvodina's expensive funds. This is something that for every legal system and state declared as a social state should be unacceptable and reason for intervention. It is not my only criticism, we from the Croatian Party of Retirement to this Croatian Parliament have referred the Pensions Act to pensioners, pensioners who receive pensions from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. I would like to remind you that this body, that this House, that in July 2006, the Croatian Parliament, in an extremely spontaneous, difficult time, has reached one conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the proposer of the Law, has found a solution for Croatian citizens of extremely unstable social situations for very endangered citizens, socially endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And under two of these Houses is committed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the central service of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to examine the actual situation and to deliver it to us. Unfortunately, I must conclude that with the haste and Prime Minister Sanader, there is no movement on the part of the President of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, after that conclusion. I think he's binding and there's just something to be done about it. Look, this isn't just about people who have been avoided and exiled. This is about Croatian citizens who have never lived outside the current borders of the Republic of Croatia. This is about those people who have always lived in Slavonski Brod, but have had an accident that they worked in the Bosnian Ship and today, so if in the Republic of Serbia they share pensions with bonuses on the 10th they are happy if they get pensions by the last month, every month less and without any monetary, or natural incomes they receive only across the border. So we're glad that this, that the Public Attorney here has dealt with this complexity of this whole situation in one direction or another, because the same thing that it says here in one direction applies in another direction. It was also observed, so this is what I really quote: "This is the kind of treatment or failure of the prescribed or properly completed forms by the foreign insurance carrier, i.e. A specific liaison body shall lead to infringement of the rights of the parties by delaying proceedings or by not making a solution within the prescribed time limit." Therefore, in such situations and similar situations, it is necessary to contact and hurry with foreign insurance carriers. In the case of multiple rushes after which the requested data are not supplied for processing, the Central Office of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office or other authorised service of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office should inform the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, I would also say to the Ministry of Pension Insurance, as this is not, these are not insignificant cases, these are very serious cases of violations or delay to be more precise or non-fulfilling of social contracts between the two countries. This ministry is further responsible for the implementation of international social insurance contracts and the basis of the administrative agreements concluded, and therefore certain actions should be taken to improve the application of these contracts in the context of the notifications provided. In the light of the problem of too many cases in work, the overload of officials, the complexity of collecting the necessary documentation to determine the right which is one of the objective causes of delays in the conduct of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the Ombudsman has repeatedly warned the central service of a number of pending cases in which he hastened the proceedings earlier, warning the same service of the need to amend Article 295. Law on administrative procedure i.e. the obligation to inform the party of the reasons for exceeding the deadline for making a solution or conclusion in an administrative procedure outside the law of a given time limit and of the actions to be taken. This is the most important thing. Therefore, if the Central Service of the Pensions Office cannot address the problem within the specified time limit under the Administrative Procedure Act, it is required to inform the party in a procedure outside the law of a certain period of reason and of the actions to be taken to ensure that the party's right is realised until the end of the position. So that's what we have to stick to. This is what we must suggest tomorrow or commit to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. And I really don't know if the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute had any in the adoption of the annual report on work, report and find of the Ombudsman or whether they were available to her, whether this report was available to the Governing Council, given that it in some way binds them and points to their failures? If it wasn't, and I'll check it out, but in any case I want to open a discussion with the report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because it is our duty to ensure that the system is connected and the consistency of the work of the overall system. What I will certainly do, and that is to send an example of Mr. Piljan from Pula to the gentleman's occupier, or I will direct him to the occupier, the gentleman worked at the same workplace as his colleague, worked as a civilian in the military, then the Yugoslav army, one has a thousand, in the same workplace, the same category, one has a thousand kuna now more pension than this one before. So, we had one situation in pension systems when happiness was at which one of the officials ran into and what documents he had taken into account. The gentleman had 50 steaks of his salary to prove himself to. And the decision of the Administrative Court was to build on the available data to perform the art. The administrative court's decision is not respected, the gentleman continues to suffer a thousand kunas behind his colleague. And I'll ask you here publicly from the pay phone that when it comes to you to pay particular attention to that case. So, in conclusion, with a desire for the better and better work of the Ombudsman in this year, with a desire for us to all agree on more powers together and to finally decide whether we will have one attorney-general with the resolutions or the specialized Ombudsman, we will accept it by saying that in front of the Croatian party of pensioners we accept this Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88106	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88107	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to show my support for the work of the attorney general, and therefore this report that is here today in front of us on the benches. And in fact, in some ways, to show gratitude for being persistent, stubborn in some way, so here, for a few years in a row I would say, points to almost the same irregularities in the work of the state administration body, i.e. pointing to problems and trying to solve the problems that citizens have when trying to solve some of their subjects and the bodies of the state administration or bodies with public authority. And if you're actually going to look at the 2005 report, or the 2004 report, especially the last one where the lawyer is always giving a final one review with certain reviews and suggestions, you could almost rewrite it. And then maybe you could even agree with someone who said here that you're actually losing your time and your own time, money, etc., when you're writing such wide reports, and you might actually be able to get on a few sheets. However, I will start with what it says on page 6, where actually when you talk about the number of completed cases in 2006 you point to one fact indisputable and that is that 80% of all complaints that have arrived to you are classified in that category of legitimate complaints. So in addition to that, you compare in fact that unlike other countries, that figure is far, far greater. So in other countries it's justifiable to complain that they're going towards the ombudsmans, somewhere at 10%. It is true that in these countries, as you say yourself, it is not a dissatisfaction with the length of procedures as it is with us in Croatia, but rather a dissatisfaction with the outcome of the procedure, while unfortunately, as far as Croatian citizens are concerned, it is the longevity of all procedures. I would first also like to look back on this part in this final part of your section where you speak in this paragraph of legal certainty someone in the name of a club is one part of it here and I would just point out these first two passports that are actually talking about what they are leading to and what dangers behind them hide the longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings. So, they question the fulfillment of constitutional principles of legal certainty and equality of citizens before the law, because instead of the order of certainty on deadlines, it favours arbitration and self-will, but it continues but allows corruption. And as you say yourself, there is no need to say that all this has an important impact on the creation of a perception of the spread of corruption in the administration and the judiciary. Please, I really think that, especially for the last year or so, we've all been talking about the presence of corruption, we're talking more and more about corruption, we're talking more and more about the presence of corruption and justice, and I don't think we can be satisfied with the repeated repetition by the Justice Minister anymore. Well, yes, citizens have their perception of the amount of corruption in our society, but you know she's not that big. It's just not clear to me as a parliamentary representative in what way she's assessing it at all. And the second thing that I also want to point out is that this long-term problem of procedures is most affected by the weak and the poor. I think everyone in this country would agree if they read this sentence of yours that on the one hand is for the very poor most common solving of the case which is a vital issue in the process of life. Here, colleagues have previously highlighted the problem of how much someone needs to get, say, a pension right solution, and on the other hand, those who own power and money with their hands, which usually binds with each other in the rule of solving their cases within shorter deadlines. And it's a public secret when they say it depends on how hard you are to say it in that power and money, according to which your object will end up at the top or at the bottom of someone's drawer. What seems particularly worrying to me also, I don't know if anyone in the government will actually be able to read this report carefully in the eyes that you as a public defender is your function, but you warn and point out to our ministers who are actually their primary tasks and that actually ministers should pay far more attention to the important administrative function of resolving the rights and legal interests of citizens. You warn them that it is the minister's obligation to regularly monitor and analyse data in the resolution of administrative matters and to exercise citizens' rights, to take measures or to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the necessary measures. You continue to say it cannot be a good minister who has had the administrative procedure for years or only the ministry's appeal procedure for two to four years. When it comes to the longevity of the administrative procedure, someone said on behalf of the club, I think it was a colleague of Bosnjakovic, that a smart, correct reference in some administration, in some ministry can actually very quickly resolve a complaint or change a solution because in the end, Articles 235 to 237, i.e. Articles 242 and 243 also enable him to do so. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which actually speaks of the rights and possibilities by which they can solve the administrative matter themselves, otherwise or possibly, in the case of an appeal, must resolve the administrative matter themselves. And that might, of course, be feasible for us if we really had smart, correct references. However, as you yourself warn, it seems that in Croatia the reform of the state administration really comes down to, we propose, changing a number of legal regulations and at the same time when it comes to people, so the personnel that work for us in our state administration are still very questionable to me, and that this country and this government are actually least investing in the education of these personnel. It's not enough to raise someone's salary for 200, 300 or 500 kuna and it's not enough just to hire new people. I don't know if we'll be able to figure out how many new people have been brought in in just the last few years if we don't get them to work differently at the same time. And finally, I'd just like to say two or three sentences to this last one of your questions and dilemmas actually asked. In particular, I would like to refer to this question whether to continue to set up special defences by law or to strengthen the constitutional institution of the attorney general. I think it's a false dilemma and I don't think it really rules out one another. I am strong for an open debate both in this House and on the different round tables that we need from the defense attorneys. On the subject. But I don't think it's good, because it seems to me that somehow lately we all think that we're going to solve things, solve issues and problems if we're not going to start a new one right now, or we're going to end one of these now, and we're going to put everything under the auspices of the regiment. No, we'll settle the matter at the time when the attorney general as the authority of this House is truly recognized and accepted by the government's competent authorities. And that will be at the moment when this Parliament finally gets or returns to it the function that he really has in relation to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88108	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General, this report, first of all, to say that I'm going to support it, no, it's not really about that at all. The report was made in such a way that it can be read as statistics of something that happened last year in the Republic of Croatia and can also be read as a collection of tragedies. Some, some of these tragedies are actually ancient or Shakespearean. The depths of the infirmities of the people who found themselves in front of the system. The system insulted them, hurt them. Kidnapped their rights. He wronged them, and they don't know where else to go. They spoke to Mr. Malcic. For example, a person who has been waiting for a pension solution for 8 years. That man lived for eight years. Someone fed him for eight years. He was humiliated for eight years, and for a century or a good part of the century he did and thought that he had earned a peaceful and full age. What's the function of the attorney general? The function is to protect the citizens from injustice. And who does wrong? Of course, the government. Who else? E cases in this report are talking about exactly that. They talk about how, when, in what way and where, in a dry language, which can also be read in a poetic way, they speak of these injustices. But as with the election for the missus, the girls they choose are not the most beautiful. It's the most beautiful of those who signed up for the election. Thus neither these are all tragedies nor injustice nor are they the greatest tragedies and injustices. The biggest ones are the ones that didn't even get to Mr. Malcic. Because a man doesn't know most likely that there's an attorney general. Nor did anyone refer him to him. But there was an injustice that struck him and he, he remained with that injustice to live on. The greatest injustice is too late for justice. If justice is 5, 10, 15 years late and there are such cases in this report, and we know them from reports on the functioning of the Croatian judiciary that after so many years it is no longer justice. It could be some kind of satisfaction, some kind of revenge against the system, but justice definitely isn't. The injustices that occur due to misaction, inaction, corruption in the justice system Mr. Malcic does not even mention it because there is no authority over the judicial system. The Attorney General can say nothing about these cases according to constitutional provisions. And we're aware that the biggest number of problems are right there, and there are the most difficult problems. Maybe it's time to change that. Perhaps it is time to think about how to amend the legislation so that these cases can also become the authority of the attorney general. In that case, probably less, less complaints would be found at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or wherever they are. Another problem, and I'm only talking about those back pages of the report where Mr. Malcic makes suggestions on what should be done, what could possibly be done? Another problem is the strategy of continuing the work of the attorney general. It's just that things have turned in a certain direction. We're acting by instinct, so first we set up a lawyer for gender equality and a lawyer for children. Now we're going to set up a D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, a D.A.'s Attorney for Older Persons. My colleague Cain is looking for a lawyer for the Istrians. Maybe that's a good way to do it. If that's a good way, then it's at least correct of this House to come up with a legal framework in which this way will fit in and let's legalize it. So the ombusman general represents those cases that are not in either of these 10, 12, 13, 15, or how many specializing vehiculars we're going to have. Or on the other hand, we need to determine what needs to be regulated by some regulation. There's an attorney general who has assistants for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 areas. In any case, it's not good to let the power go, that the momentum of things goes on and on, so what kind of person comes to mind. And if the one who came up with it has enough political influence and his attorney-in-law will be founded. We don't want the other one because the proposal came from a strange side. These are all the questions that Mr. Public Attorney pointed out in his proposals. In this regard, the Club of the Croatian People's Party has proposed conclusions that would actually reflect Mr Malcic's demands and the three committees key to this issue of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Legislatives have committed to finding answers to these questions. Perhaps the answers in both cases are negative for everything Mr. Malcic suggests. So maybe the answer should be no, you really don't have the right to get involved in justice. The judiciary is working on its track, and that kind of government is none of your business. Maybe the answer should be, so we'll start, we'll set up defenders for all areas we find appropriate. But in any case, it should be institutionally determined and not let things go as scytheically as it has been so far. In light of this, I appeal to my fellow MPs that you accept these conclusions that you have received on the benches. On the one hand, let us try to clarify the situation in which the Ombudsman is located and the further development and work of the institution, and, on the other hand, try as many of these injustices that Croatian citizens suffer to help them. That someone could appear in their name before the authorities and in the name of all these humiliated people. In fact, raise your voice and try to correct the injustice as much as possible and whenever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88110	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88111	Mr. President, here's a colleague asking a little rhetorical question. Does he say who's doing the wrong? He says power. To what extent that's true. I think it's incorrect because it's made up of certain clerks but not by the government. Unless I'm saying a colleague thinks about the government. But if he thinks of this government this government really corrects all inherited injustices. Let's say, according to high school professors, cops, and the same thing that the previous government did wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88112	Replicated representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88113	So I would like to take another chance, therefore, and in relation to the presentation of my colleague Vuljanić, only Vuljanić was involved in the defence, about their number, about how it went so far, whether it was a verse or not. I think we've got the Attorney General's Office by now. We have a lawyer for gender equality and counsel for children. The Ombudsman for children was the first to be appointed to this Assembly after the Ombudsman, and in 2003 the Law on Gender Equality and the Advocate General for Gender Equality. I'd like us to really and again what I said to open up an argumentable debate that we need from the D.A.'s office? Why are they needed, or why have we founded these particular defense attorneys? The other thing is that we did it on the basis of what we did, and the other thing is that now you'd be the attorney general's proposal for this immigration. Now there's a second reading of the D.A.'s, going for people with disabilities. Now it's proposed for older people if I'm not mistaken. The Ombudsman's proposal for national minority issues, etc. was also mentioned. And that's where I agree with you. So let's finally do this one debate here somewhere, what's actually going on, and what we're actually thinking about doing, or what the government thinks or doesn't think about it, and that's where it agrees that we need it. And with regard to your conclusions, I support them. But since you, in your debate, have extended your conclusions to the things that you have given to this House, then I ask that if there is a debate in there and a defence hearing to include the Committee on Gender Equality as a parent body when it comes to one of the attorneys, and that is the prosecutor's office for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88114	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88115	Thank you. It's a fact that new tendencies are emerging, and that's what I've been invited to this discussion. Look at the agenda and see what's going on, and no argument is why it's just that, and why not something else. A man could find some other arguments for some other specialized defenders. Obviously, it's a verse, and that's what I wanted to talk about, and I wanted to stop this symmetry and that the authorities of this House, of course I agree that it is also the Committee on Gender Equality to determine the topics we're going to discuss and then discuss these topics. And Mr. Malcic, in his report on the subject, worked out nicely on those points. No, I'm not prejudicing any conclusions. The conclusions will be what parliament will bring, but we need to talk about it because this is how things go where they go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88116	Thank you. I'm closing today's session. Continuation is tomorrow at 9.30. It's up to the Honorable Representative, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88117	We continue with a session and debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88118	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Attorney General. Let's get back to yesterday's debate, that is, a report by the attorney general on the protection of human rights and on the work of the attorney general in the past year. In fact, I find the situation very interesting and absurd. The Croatian Parliament according to the Constitution is the only authority of the occupier, i.e. the occupier is the Commissioner of the Human Rights Council. So the occupier is the institution of the citizens. And we have in Parliament a finding on which the Ombudsman calls literally the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is solely responsible for the state of the state of government, exclusively responsible for the state of the state of administration where the Ombudsman determines the longevity of administrative procedures, so the state administration is one of the most difficult forms of human rights violations in the Republic of Croatia. And we're going to draw a conclusion. A report from the Attorney General last year. Or listen to this quote, I don't know if you've noticed it but I will help you, when it comes to legal certainty, think citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia should be warned of inadmissible leniency, read irresponsible relationship, state bodies in relation to respect and application of laws and regulations at all. The Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government are easy to deal with the fact that some law, certain provisions are simply not generally implemented, a quote has been completed. It seems to me that this is a qualification that says that this assessment stands and that this is a serious obstacle to the development of the Croatian state, Croatian society and that it directly affects the standard of living and human rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we will again reach a conclusion is accepted by the Ombudsman's report. My colleagues and colleagues don't call this a public defender, but this is a denial of the rule of law. This finding is a negation of the rule of law. Of course, the public defender shows on many examples the trends in human rights violations in the Republic of Croatia, which is, of course, his job. But I'm asking the attorney general to work for the public to tell which one he has the tools to implement or to change the state he sees. He has only a warning and submits a report to the Croatian Parliament, which has the right to control the Croatian government and the ministries, so to the state administration. And we'll come to the conclusion again, the Attorney General's report is accepted. Then what is the purpose of this report? What's the point? If a minister can be ordered in Croatia to withdraw the tax ruling and it is done by the prime minister, then it is again a denial of the rule of law, because the state administration is not acting under the Tax Act, under the Law of Administrative Procedure, but on the will of the individual. If a decision can be made in Croatia by the government that the tax will not be charged, it is a political decision, not a legal one. If it can be brought to the government in Croatia in which the buildings will be destroyed, it means that the rule of law has not worked because it has allowed the buildings to be built under the laws and obligations of inspection and state administration. So if we are behind the steps we can take then the information and reports that tells us about the situation and trends in the Croatian legal system on the application of the law and how the state administration treats citizens is in our area, in our jurisdiction. Let's not break now that there's nothing we can do about justice, so that's not what we're looking for. Come on, let's do what we can. Come on, let's do what we can. So, as the Croatian Parliament sees the institution of the attorney general, it is evidence that it is in continuance to conclude that the Ombudsman has no position either in the material or in the financial sense that he deserves because he is the Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament. The institution of the Ombudsman is a constitutional category, and we are now considering whether it is better to set up the Ombudsmans or defenders for various parts of the Croatian society or to strengthen the institution that is provided for by the Constitution, so that it can, for example, have offices in other areas of the Republic of Croatia and make the institution more accessible to citizens. Well, it is our job to enable those living in Dubrovnik or Osijek to have an office of an attorney general or his deputy in those cities. That is why I think it is necessary for the Assembly to conclude that the Government has not studied the 2006 Ombudsman's report because it is illogical that the Government accepts the evaluations that the Ombudsman is giving. So the government is asked to propose to the Croatian Assembly measures to remove all laws or provisions from being implemented in Croatia. And from the attorney general to specify at least some of these laws and some of the provisions. I think the situation is really such that this is a waste of time. As far as I know, I hope he will say, there are only measures available to warn, no tools or forced sanctions or measures. He informs us in the Croatian Parliament as the only competent body for the occupier and citizens and human rights violations, and we will only conclude what you say. Then there's no movement. Let us return the report to the Croatian Government to show which trends are and how to prevent the laws of all or individual provisions from being applied in Croatia and that trends are as they are in violation of human rights. Of course, it should be said that this is not a human rights report. He's really looking at the side when human rights are being violated. He can't speak to a public defender for cases he doesn't know, who didn't come to him, or about positive shifts except by observing trends that he's following. The protection of human rights cannot be successfully managed if it is carried out only by the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88119	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Peero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88120	Your Honor, Mr. President, he is right to be a distinguished colleague when he says that the occupier is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. But we're talking about the same thing again, we're discussing the same subject the fourth time and no movement has been made. The same situation was that the government and the competent ministries did not comply with the request, did not respond to the demands of the occupier. They are the same measures that the Ombudsman can take, which are advice, warnings and recommendations. I mean, those are strong measures when you only see them by name. That's why I last suggested there's still some kind of desperate cry, and that's how I understand this report. The conclusions were that the legislative part would be changed. The conclusions were that the financial part would improve. In the end, nothing was done. Again, we have what we had for the fourth time in this fifth meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and it will happen again that the same conclusion will be made again, and again it will be the same that nothing will be done in this period and this report has exactly as the summer paper of Pope Dukanin, they are neatly finding in time and space what was happening, who was talking to them and finally we see that there is no power because they can't do anything systematically because of the fact that we didn't do ourselves if the Government doesn't agree that we start legal changes to keep our budget accounts and everything else. Because it will happen again in the next session of the Parliament that all these other colleagues will say what we are saying today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88121	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88122	Well, the answer is to point out something else that gave me the chance of a colleague, Kovacevic. The Advocate General is very good at relying on the Croatian judiciary reform strategy and he explicitly cites the situation in the courts in Split and Zagreb. We have no suggestion that the situation is changing in these courts, and the Croatian Parliament is discussing let me say, about the makeup of panels and the reorganization of courts. We have now had two laws that do not bring any change to the judiciary, and in the strategy of judicial reform and already twice established, the Public Advocate mentions the court in Split and Zagreb, there is no word about the main problems in these courts, of course the proposal of the government law. So I don't know who's in the board, who's in the wedge, but the Croatian people are paying for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88123	The next replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88124	Well, you have also well noticed what is apostrophe of fellow Kovacevic to you in order to draw attention to what has always been done year by year here by the Ombudsman, that there are no instruments for an active, proactive human rights policy, but ultimately to ensure the protection of the constitutional position and constitutional obligations of the Ombudsman referred to in Article 92(4), which is said by the Ombudsman's institution to ensure the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. In that sense, we were determined last year that it was really necessary to consider the amendment and the law that would taxively list and give these instruments to the vengeful Ombudsman so that he would not only be a voice, shouting in the desert and shoulder to cry, but that he could therefore not only determine these injuries but also act. In that sense, nothing has happened again or seems to change that at all. Here last year, and this year, the attorney general warns of an alarming situation in our prisons, the prison system is about to collapse. There every day, almost every little bit we have different perilous situations, riots, fights, overdoses, because the situation in prisons is unsustainable. And it is the result of the tax criminal policy and the inability of that system to absorb everything that the courts refer to in prisons. So there's no movement here. Last year it was observed, and these too are being apostrophe that the situation in human prisons is below human dignity, that by now it is such that from a security point of view it is very dangerous, but no answer is being made, but there is no reaction to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88125	Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88126	You have absolutely the right to colleague Leko when you claim that only accepting the report will not lead to any improvement. Last year's report by the Ombudsman was much more concrete and the remarks were made with much more difficult words and that was why, therefore, we experienced this as a cry of loneliness and that was why we proposed conclusions that the government would commit to taking what the Ombudsman said. However, these conclusions are certainly rejected by the parliamentary majority's will. As the attorney general said, the state administration is inextricable because the employment criteria are not professional but political similarities and personal loyalty. That's scary. This time, the attorney general is slightly lighter, which doesn't mean the situation has been corrected. I quote a mere lawyer who says: No significant implementation problems can be expected, significant problems can be expected in the application of new rules on civil servants. That often laws and regulations are harmonised only because this is required in the EU accession process, shows the simultaneous adoption of rules on the depoliticalisation of high administrative functions and the public manifestation of party membership of their holders and their accession to the party. Isn't that a scary quote. So, it is evident if this report is accepted as we accepted last year's report, without further conclusions and if we are witnessing that in practice the Government does not implement or act according to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, we are actually participants in confirming and extending the situation as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88127	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I will refer briefly to the report on the work of the Advocate General for 2006. And in fact, this is the result of inefficient red tape and irresponsibility of individuals and bypassing the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and I do not single out either the work itself or the responsibility of the attorney general. We are constantly quoting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Before the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, we are all equal before the law. According to this report, I'm going to look back at something where the work of a civil defender himself doesn't treat people that we're all equal in front of the law. On the Committee on Immigration and Croatians outside the country, we have pointed out that part of the problem that concerns Croatia outside the country or the settlers in the Republic of Croatia, so I will take a brief look at the requirements for entry into Croatian citizenship where he was a representative of the Ministry of the Interior. We've also pointed out that we're not all equal before the law. If we are now counting the third generation of Croats outside Europe and already exists in Europe for the third generation, they are asked to receive an entry into Croatian citizenship, they are asked to have one document, which they unfortunately do not have, that they are members of the Croatian people. In the request, they collect all the documentation of their parents and their brothers and sisters, which shows that they too are family members. And after all that, they get a negative solution. We have been promised several times from the Ministry of the Interior that it is as I have already said irresponsibility or ineffective red tape which I cannot understand by applicants. In the hope that this situation will change and that people will be treated equally, I hope that now the requirements for admission to Croatian citizenship will not last for four or five years or a year and a half, we are promised a reasonable time of four months. Secondly, I repeat, that before the law everyone is equal and is working under the Constitution and responsibility towards the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then in the Report of the Ombudsman, there would be no problem between exiles and returnees on the one hand who have the right, and on the other hand those who have been expelled from their hearths are ignored. These are Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Vojvodina, immigrants to the Republic of Croatia, have not been rid of the most basic and still home over their heads. Many are still in alternative accommodations. And while on the other hand, my God points to exiles and refugees who did not have to move out of the Republic of Croatia and could remain like all other people. It's about exiles, refugees at the time of the Homeland War. My colleagues, if you have anything to say, please report to me in replica. I repeat, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Vojvodina are still in alternative accommodations, pensions that my colleague said yesterday have not been resolved, and are Croatian citizens. Well, I think if it were more of an international cooperation, gentlemen, Mr. Attorney General, you and your associates could get in touch with your colleagues in Banja Luka and point out a violation of the human rights and that institution itself. Last year there was more about co-operation, the international co-operation of the Croatian Ombudsman with the civil defenders in neighbouring countries and beyond. Then it wouldn't have left out at least on your part what I expected in this report. Both last year and this time a big debate is being held on the terms of your work. The absolute conditions of your work also apply to the results. But please not to that extent that this would actually be one major part of the debate on the 2006 Ombudsman's Report, especially since individuals as you said themselves do not consider the terms of your work. You are responsible for your work and Croatian, I do not dispute that this is not the Croatian Parliament's responsibility. Third thing I'm gonna say. Since yesterday, there has been a constant mention of the founding of new edifices. We've got you, we've got the vacancy attorney for the kids, we've got the attorney general for gender equality. Other civil defenders, for example, were also proposed. for emigration. A colleague of Cain's yesterday submitted an attorney general for the Istrians. I don't know what part of the Croatian public is. Comrade Cain, that's right. However, I won't, so all of you who are proposing new civil defenders must explain, and at the very least say what they would do, how effective it would be for all of us in the Republic of Croatia to establish justice or injustice or justice or injustice. That's why I'm saying that all of us who are actually responsible for the consequences of the report on the work of the attorney general and I'm sure I'm giving you another objection. We must be effective, we must be more responsible, we must promote the laws of the Republic of Croatia and we must point to the irresponsibility of people. Anyone can be replaced, every man is replaceable. He's not replaceable with his parents and his children. In the hope that the 2007 Report will be another character, I will be abstentioned in voting on the 2006 Ombudsman's Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88129	Replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88130	Well, we really should agree with counterpart Petricevic when he says many should not have left Croatia. And I agree with that finding of yours. It's just irrefutable, and it's true that those houses were not supposed to crash anyway, because now we're all paying dearly for the rebuilding of those houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88131	Replication response, Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88132	Mr. President, fellow Anticevic! All that is in the Croatian press, it is proven that many accept it, and so do those who are irresponsible at the time of the creation of the Republic of Croatia and its defense, including you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88133	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88134	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also look back at her and answer her in one piece to her presentation, and I would refer to the Ombudsman's report. Regarding the exiled Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the countries of the former Yugoslavia, there is unfortunately no mention of it in this report. So I think that question deserves a particular chapter, but it is absolutely not even actually touched. We need here and on the trail of what you colleagues were saying to know that according to the official documents of the Republika Srpska during the war and after that at official meetings of the government so-called. Republika Srpska at the time made a decision that non-Serbs should be in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is under the occupation of their consciousness at 3 to 5%. It was therefore a systematic way to banish, banish and literally ethnically clean people. When it happened and they moved to where they are, thank God that part of them still stayed in Croatia and a great deal of unfortunately left these premises many of them have absolutely not solved any status here. On the other hand, the pensions of your colleagues have not been settled, but they have not been resolved, because these are all issues that need to be resolved between other bilateral agreements with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in one part, it is the Republic of Croatia. You will encounter certain assurances on the other hand that this problem has been solved in terms of the return of property of all those exiled from space so-called. Republika Srpska. However, the truth has been returned to them but they are not guaranteed an absolute return, they are not provided with any security there and not to talk about the care in terms of building family homes or solving I neither know employment nor anything we would call a sustainable return. So this is a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88137	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88138	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. My debate here is consistent with this report that we have received will first of all be in the direction of finding something that is already known in the public and the public defender did not include with his report and probably for the reason that he did not receive complaints from employed people or inspection supervision that was ahead of our administrative inspection of the Office of State Administration. I think the report is very correct, detailed, based on the laws and powers of the Ombudsman and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on which they delivered this report. I will remind only what is said in this law and it has been said that the Ombudsman is given the opportunity to help, advise, eliminate the shortcomings and ambiguities that are in the functioning of the legal system. I therefore also advocate and propose what the Ombudsman here has said to deal with the amendments and additions to the law as many colleagues here have said about clearer ways and opportunities and mechanisms of work of the Ombudsman in removing exactly those points, critical points of non-pulsibility of the positive legal rules. I also welcome your decision as well as the way you work to remind all districts and units of local self-government about the applications of people, citizens, officials and others in terms of breaking certain laws and regulations. I would be pleased to see that in your report you have shown the state of the rights of employees and appointments of Požega-Slavon County and have visited this Požega-Slavon County. I believe that it would be within this very good way of writing the report, above all, in the description of the case of a violation of the law that we have been hearing unfortunately in the media and the media is judging and making legal decisions beyond what has not been established by law and the individual has neither been court nor concluded. Then they would surely conclude that one invention that went to Požega-Slavon County and it is called the rehabilitation programme was only the goal and the intention to fire a number of employees by seeking an argument of irrationality in the county administration. We believed all through the media and the public that the real damage in Požega-Slavon County was done by the predecessor or the previous government, starting at 50 million, 150 million, 352 million kuna. In the end, it passed a billion because the external debt of the Republic of Croatia was also burdened as damage to the county and the thieving committed by the former government. Unfortunately, on this basis, a proposal for rationalisation was made in the county offices, out of which seventeen people were practically out of work. In the second paragraph where you write down the measures taken that there have been visits to Požega-Slavon County I believe it would have been established that administrative supervision has been made, that irregularities have been found primarily in the adoption of this Sanjay programme and the unargumented way it was presented until the decision was taken on the establishment of administrative bodies or administrative offices in the County of Požega-Slavonia on which the rules on the systemisation of jobs were subsequently adopted on the basis of which people were unscheduled. And in the end, in that last provision that you here very nicely highlight in the outcome of the case, seventeen people were found on the street. By what criteria? In accordance with the criteria of the Sanitary Programme and the illegal decision-making and systematisation of jobs, respectively. If you had visited Požega-Slavon County, you would probably have visited the House of Retired in Požega where there is an eclectic way of violating the rights of employees in that institution, from its director to the employees of the home. Let me just give you an example of how, how to write a solution to the employees. He says in that explanation, the mayor visited the retirement home. Noticed that the sheet on one of the beds was crumpled and resolved through the director of this House highlights the measure, and the measure is a fine of 500 kuna or a warning of the cancellation of the working relationship to that same employee. This isn't just one example. A few examples of violations of employee rights. If you were in Požega, you would probably have found out, and I would have said one legally incompatible way of authority or subjugation of certain laws that we have. An example of the pharmacy Požega. Pharmacy, a health care institution in a network of health institutions that, because of its unconscious business or rather unconscious business, is in bankruptcy. Thus, the Law on bankruptcy proceedings was applied, and where the creditors are pharmacy according to litigation law, regardless of their ability to comply with Article 204. The law on budget implementation is being settled, settled from the county budget. What is the law here is "legal specialis" or which law is governed by a certain law I believe that a public defender would find it. Also, if you were in Požega, you would likely find that in the areas of the war, every man has the right to rebuild. In particular, economic operators have the right to rebuild. And also institutions whose county is the founder of having the right to rebuild. And they would probably see a particular case such as the ZRC Lipik, a health-recreation centre in which, in which hospital and recreational part are in which nothing has been done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in terms of restoration, and the right of every man is that what has been broken down in the war, and in this law we have given the right to be and restored and that content of the necessary health standard he has, should also be restored in that hospital. Unfortunately, nothing has been done. In addition to the date of the guarantee of the Croatian State and the paid loan of almost 150 million kuna, it is neither per façade nor any other basis in that institution. I would also like to join our chairman of the Committee on Immigration in establishing this state and requesting a public defender, because I think that you, at the level of the Ombudsmans, can launch an initiative. I'm not saying you can make these pensioners' rights in line. People who worked in neighbouring countries or neighbouring countries, especially those who worked in public enterprises, then public enterprises such as the Croatian Railways. Your initiative or your conversation with the civil defender of neighbouring countries can be a good basis and a basis for contact between the two governments or three governments to truly achieve this solution. An example is that a pensioner who worked on the Yugoslav railways is our citizen, worked in a neighbouring country has a double pension because there the pension is determined by agreement. As much as they have the resources to place people in their pensions, the law has established, and yours, your finding in violation of the rights and the law can go in favour of this situation being resolved. And in the end, I agree with some of the debates that went here in the sense that the attorney general does not have enough tools and mechanisms to resolve or put things in order but has this very constitutional category of opportunity to warn and point to the government, and the government should, and I hope, in certain cases, have responded accordingly to its authority as it does. In that sense, I accept a full report on the work of the arraignment attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88139	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88140	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So you see the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman has been appointed as the authority of this House to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens against the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority and has no authority to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in court cases and I add, unfortunately, there is no such authority because we know what our situation is in the judiciary. It is still said that the attorney general's authority is considering individual cases of endangerment of the rights of citizens who have committed to them by the authorities of the state administration and public authorities in the exercise of their duties under their jurisdiction. And you see in line with that, the constitutional provision we in this Assembly seem to have unanimously chosen the current Advocate General's responsibility because of his I would say professional and moral verticals. And now one of the Offices of the Public Attorneys, where Mr. Malcic is headed at the moment in front of this Croatian Parliament with one of these reports that is not objecting to. Quality, concisely, specifically, suggests and makes suggestions and that no one wonders that it is already, I don't know, here's the third one that I've seen for years that we're discussing the reports of the attorney general and that the executive authority is not taking what is obvious and clear to each of our citizens and what should be taken by the executive authority. I also agree with my colleague Babić-Petricevic about her position that she has brought here to other defenders who are proposing who already exist or are planning to establish them. She says, she asked how effective would that be? And I'm also asking how effective would that be? But not as effective as it would be on the part of these institutions, because I think the current Ombudsman is also very effective at me, but it is an inefficient executive authority because it does not take the measures clearly indicated here and does not eliminate the negativity that the Ombudsman here has made very clear in his report. I agree with you yesterday, and we discussed it the same way last night, so Hrelja's colleague in his debate said: "Is there no more complaints from the citizens of the Office of the Public Prosecutors that they eventually did not get the impression? And what, he complained or did not complain, Mr. Malcic and his Office of Defence made recommendations, in a way suggesting solutions but the executive authority is doing nothing. To me, what remains is nothing more than what my colleague Stazic told me on behalf of the SDP Club to support this report. What else can I do? But I also understood very well yesterday's opening letter from Mr Malcic and among the words I gained the impression of a dissatisfaction in that office because of the ineffectiveness of the executive authority and because of its inaction in the resolution of those shortcomings that are listed in the report, which are directly within the jurisdiction of the executive authority. It's enough last night and it's already been said this morning, and I've taken the right to state my position in relation to the effectiveness of the executive authority not according to my assessment, but from this report, taking a few points clearly referred to it, so I'm going to say about why I am in my debate accepting this report, in fact, referring to the executive authority that should be acting. First, for example, the conclusion of last year. The Croatian Parliament has reached a majority vote of 89 for, 2 abstentions, which adopts the report and says it is directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures to make it more effective for the competent state authorities with public authority. What did the executive government do by that? Nothing. Second. In a report by the Advocate General, the Ombudsman warns that only one of the six recommendations of the 2006 Ombudsman has begun, and that the executive authority has not acted according to recommendations except one, as taxed in this report. Second. The Ombudsman finds in his report that our laws that we bring are only a mere adaptation to the European Union without adapting to the Croatian situation and legal culture. And who's the responsibility? I'm in charge of the executive. Once again, it is concluded that the executive power did not take what it needed. Keep going. The Ombudsman warns us of the fact that progress in the state of human rights of the Republic of Croatia is too slow, yet there is no action by the executive authority. Furthermore, due to the fact that the Ombudsman is warning the fact that the legislative solution in the Republic of Croatia is good, but the laws are not implemented, and the executive authority is not taking appropriate measures and this is our tragedy. We often have good laws, but you need the law. Whom the law bound and how it was about to be set up. Keep going. In view of the fact that the Ombudsman states that the situation in the field of administrative dispute is critical and because of the fact that the European Court found in three recent judgments that there is no effectiveness in the administrative dispute system in Croatia, and the executive authority does not take or take inadequate and insufficient measures to correct the situation. It's a devastating finding and a fact for me. Next. In view of the fact that the report also states that the Ombudsman at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution, that the proceedings before the domestic administrative courts are constantly returning to the beginning and that they are not seen at the end, that the length of the proceedings is most affected by the weak and poor, and that the executive authority is not taking measures. Furthermore, due to the fact that the number of complaints was not reduced by the Ombudsman over the long duration of the court proceedings or in 2006, and that the length of the proceedings remains the biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary. And according to the evidence that the Office of the Attorney General receives from the D.A., it is apparent that only approximately the President of the Court or even the judge in question is answered while the review of the court file is a rare exception. So again, there is a lack of efficiency of the executive authority. And if I didn't bother, I could still count for it by accepting this quality report, I took this opportunity to point out in the parliamentary debate the ineffectiveness of the executive authority and to really imagine ourselves and as the Croatian Parliament we call for efficiency in removing these obvious shortcomings and obligations that this report has also put before the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88141	Thank you. Replications. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88142	Thank you. In fact, in last year's report, my colleague, Peru, gave six recommendations in order to try to eliminate this problem of the long-term sustainability of administrative procedures, and of these six recommendations, the executive authority began not to implement but only to implement one single recommendation. On the basis of these recommendations, the Ombudsman also pointed out the European Court of Human Rights. However, nothing is happening. The executive authority refuses to implement the recommendations of the attorney general and of course we are coming to the question and who is the attorney general? The executive power ignores the attorney general, and the attorney general is our attorney-in-chief. So he speaks by our authority. Now we're wondering who's ignoring executive power? He's ignoring this Parliament. It's the same Parliament the executive authority is responding to. However, we did not ask the question, we did not send a request to the executive authority to answer because it did not implement recommendations from the occupier who not only took note of this Assembly. We accepted the report. And if we accepted the report, then we accepted these recommendations and through the Ombudsman, we addressed the recommendation to the executive authority, which clearly behaves in a way that it is considered above the Parliament, not the Parliament above the executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88143	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88144	Well, I agree with you, absolutely, colleague Lalic. After a report like this that is under discussion today in this House of Highs, someone would have to ask themselves. I am convinced that in many countries of the European Union, once such a report has arrived on the parliamentary benches, which is devastating, defeating the ineffectiveness of the executive power, that executive power has to be asked, would have to be asked, finally, by the President of this House and by us as parliamentary representatives, and I am absolutely in agreement with you. And this, yours, your statement in the replica suggests to me in a way, suggests in a way that this House would have to go with such a conclusion and according to the executive authority by accepting this report on the work of the Ombudsman, because I don't have it in front of me right now, but it seems to me that the government has considered or taken note of this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88145	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88146	Dear colleague of Perusko, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. Look, and this report already shows a number of times a fact that we can't ignore. In fact, it's not enough in the legislative sense that the attorney general, I don't know, monitor, report, suggest, encourage, etc. I think the time has come to prepare the Amendments and Supplements proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, and that, in addition to their questions, it is certainly necessary to open up the possibility of the Ombudsman to also represent citizens when it comes to the violation of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. Because it's clear that all these recommendations to the executive government actually, and their non-execution, show a few things. They show the fact that Parliament is unable to exercise control over the executive power or to raise a question of responsibility, as it is also unfortunately in Parliament that it cannot adequately protect its authority and at the same time ensure that they can carry out their part of the work. The occupier is the authority of the Assembly, and if his recommendations and findings are not executed then well, and we accept his reports and his work, then it is no longer a question of whether he is actually in a position of such or such a public defender, but rather a question of relations between the executive and the legislative authority, that is, the question of parliamentaryism and the question of what to do next. It would therefore be valid, among other things, to strengthen parliamentaryism, to enable our notifiers to use legal instruments to a greater extent when it comes to the work of the executive authority in relation to the violation or protection of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88147	Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88148	Well, colleague Arlovic, I absolutely agree with you. And it could be one of the initiatives in terms of movement in the process of amending the law. Because otherwise we're going to get into a situation, don't mind me using that term, but this report is as good as it is, no matter how high it is, as suggestive as it is, as much as it suggests problems to accept it or help or help not to use a rougher expression. And this is the worst situation, a situation in which we really cannot, as a society, and we cannot bring ourselves into this, because then we will still remain this little trust that our citizens have in politics completely undermined.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88149	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88150	My colleague, Peru, you rightly emphasise this aspect of which is largely covered by the Ombudsman's report on ineffectiveness, i.e. the largest number of complaints against the public against the authorities in relation to the authorities of the judicial authority. Remember, I would like to remind you, and also all of us, a year ago, that is, two years ago, with a big pomp, inspectors were announced in court as some deus es machina who will solve all the problems and dissatisfactions of the citizens. That was the cover of almost all the newspapers. That was so much said, so by the government and the rest of the ministry, the inspectors, the inspectors, the inspectors. The letters were at least 10 centimeters thick. Every little bit more closely to the reader of that proposal later... He saw that nothing was really going to change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we pointed to. But propaganda and a play for naives continued. This is until finally revealed in this report by the attorney general who says these inspections have completely failed. And they couldn't do anything but make an appointment because nothing new than the current situation has changed, just given a new name. Something like you remember when a Centre for Court Education was introduced during the coalition government. It was such an initiation that this large institution, i.e. the institution, should be rounded up. What's going on all these years? If only he'd changed his name to "academia." Also a major problem for the Zagreb court, we were able to secure the entire complex of Selska, which was to be per programme and per project in 4th year 2004 and when many problems, as well as in Split, would have secured a building where it has been lamentable for 3.4 years to be done here and how it will be sold, whether this project or that. But the name came up, "Justice Square."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88151	Thank you. Replica reply, Honored Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88152	Well, colleagues, Ingrid, look at the Attorney General's report on one case, and now I don't know which, when, for which no court case has been filed for more than two years, when the attorney general asked when the answer would be run is about one day, and maybe not then. That's the job of those inspectors. On these inspectors, I have listened to the constitution of this authority and the introduction of the Financial Police, which will contribute more revenue to the state budget to inspection services, etc. And inspection services have been established by the executive authority. I was myself an inspector in a particular body, a certain body, and I claim that our people have the abilities and skills equally European. However, the issue is the subordination in which these services are treated. So it's a story of an inspection, and I don't believe it, and it's proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88153	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Public Attorney with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to highlight a few cases from this report that have not been solved even after many years. From the area of justice, the case of an unannounced first hearing and after more than two and a half years. The Advocate General requested an indication of the president of the municipal court in question and sent a warning to the Minister of Justice and requested a report on the measures taken but did not receive any evidence of any of the above institutions. From the area of pension and disability insurance, the case of difficult material status and the unequal situation of disabled workers due to changes to the rules. The lawyer intervened after many unsuccessful attempts by the party to appeal to a number of state bodies and institutions. On the basis of the knowledge of the November 2004 Council's conclusion, which obliges the Government to develop an analysis of the material situation of disabled workers and the report on the implementation of the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, the Government requested that analysis and report but did not respond or provide any information as to whether those documents were made at all. Apparently not, because otherwise there wouldn't be any reason for them to be delivered to him. This is just another example of the government's haughtiness and ignoring in the implementation of the Croatian Parliament's decisions. Another case in this area is the recognition of the right to the pension of the Republic of Croatia citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina. During two years, the Ombudsman asked the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute on several occasions to report on the reasons for the delay, but the final explanation was not received and there is no knowledge of the end of the case. From the area of status issues of citizens, a case of admission to Croatian citizenship at the request of 2002, which has not been resolved so far. During six months, the occupier asked three times for a statement from the interior minister's assistant but never received an answer. Over the course of another six months, a direct review of the file was attempted, but only information was received that the solution was waiting for the minister's signature, which he personally and confirmed in the phone conversation as if the solution would be delivered to the party as he said these days, which was told by the prosecutor. From then on, six more months have passed during which the Ombudsman again intervened on what he received some papers that had nothing to do with the case, and the case was not resolved after five years. From the area of local self-government, the case of irregularities in determining the costs of state cadastrian measurement on the burden of citizens. The Central State Administration Office has been asked to oversee the decision of the municipal headship on powers and to determine the amount of costs, and the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked the same office for an indication of the undertaking, but has received only a notification of the change of jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority which, on the other hand, has not been given an assessment of the authority of the municipal headship for what they have stated, not knowing the normative regulation of this matter. Therefore, the Ombudsman requested the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction to carry out the supervision of the work of this body and repeatedly during 2006 rushed the delivery of the report on the undertaking, but has not received the requested report so far. From the area of housing, the length of the procedure for rebuilding the house, the request submitted in 1995 and the solution adopted in 2002, a complaint has been filed which has not been resolved so far. In December 2002, the Ombudsman requested an indication of the reasons for the difficulties in the reconstruction of the Office of State Administration in Zadar County, which he never received an answer. Therefore, in May 2006, the Ministry of the Sea Rehabilitation Administration received a reply that the complaint was not signed and that a large number of cases and that a solution would be adopted. It's been 12 years now, the solution hasn't been made, and when it doesn't know. From the area of temporarily seized property, the return of the temporarily taken home at sea and the damages caused by the inability to use. The application was made in 2000, despite a multiple request from the Regional Office for Expatriates to implement it, and every time an identical incredible explanation that it is dangerous persons and that owners should contact the National Attorney's Office and the Board of Exorcisors in Zagreb. The administration in Zagreb appeared incompetent and directed the parties back to the regional office. After five months, the Ombudsman asked the Ministry of Expatriate Administration for a statement and received an answer that temporary users have a house in Zagreb, use the house in the summer and use the apartment illegally in Benkovec and recommends the owners to open court proceedings for emigration. Here, the Ombudsman warned precisely about the incomprehensible assignment of the house at sea to the temporary use of persons who have a house in Zagreb, that the case for emigration was to be filed by the competent state attorney's office on the basis of the request of the Ministry of the Sea and not by the owner, as well as the failure to pay the damages due to the inability to use the house from the state budget and the failure to demand these funds from temporary users. As with previous cases, this one has not been solved today either. In this case, a number of questions are raised. Who is and why has assigned the house to the people with a house in Zagreb and will be responsible for it. Who is responsible for the non-implementation of the decision to evict the competent housing commission. Who is responsible for it, then how will they expect another solution to be implemented even if it is brought by a court. Who's going to implement that solution? I think the answers to these questions are very short, clear and equal. No one's going to do anything, no one's responsible, a papal cat and ate a donkey wolf. There's still some logical questions going on. Why should the owners even have to submit any claims for the return of the property when they have not requested the confiscation of that property by any request. Why would the owner have to force himself to move the users when he didn't even move them? In order to ensure that the same state services and institutions that temporarily seized the property are returned to the owner by the end of the reason for the confiscation of the property without special formalities, the analogue way in which it was taken away. It would seem to me to be a normal procedure in a normal rule of law, but it looks like we're neither normal nor legal. No one is responsible for anything, and a state apparatus rarely serves to collect regular monthly salaries, not to serve citizens. The vast majority of unsolved cases in this report have not been resolved because of the insensitivity of the service to the problems and rights of the citizens, and they often hide their unhappiness and impunity behind the failures of the formal nature and guilt to the citizens. For example, the request is not signed, is not submitted in a special form, is not a good address, has not received a request despite the stated returnees and similar nebuloses. It is unacceptable because of the superficiality and failure of state bodies and services, to force citizens to new costs, new procedures, to unjustly extend and not solve cases for years and thus cause stress and health problems for citizens, often and irreparable. And then charge them a tax on the disease and a visit to the doctor. Unfortunately, the worst part is that the recommendations and remarks of the Ombudsman are not binding on the authorities of the state administration, but it does seem very much with its associates. Although the report does not taxally state all cases which have been processed and some areas are not detailed on the basis of this document, I would like to show my full support and recognition of the work of the Ombudsman, to support the report as well as its demands for space, additional people and financial resources in order to make future action more effective and comprehensive. But if we do not commit to the government, first and foremost, to remove these and similar failures, the report itself will not mean anything, nor in the event that the Government has ignored Parliament's decisions many times before, an example that we have seen in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88155	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88156	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the correction is an allegation, but it's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because to tell you about us... Correction of the quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague said Croatia is neither a normal nor a legal state. Well, that's just not true. The least we can say is that it's not true. And not to say that it offends all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately for you, Croatia is an independent and sovereign and democratic state and a legal state and a normal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88157	I'm asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88158	I refer to the 209th article of the Rules of Procedure because the gentleman corrected my incorrect quote that I did not say. I did not say that Croatia is not legal and is not a normal state. I said I thought from this report she wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88159	Replications. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88160	In the part where she spoke about the Ombudsman’s report related to the area of pension and disability insurance, a prominent colleague said what the Ombudsman had handled in his report. But I'd dare say what he hasn't done yet. And this was the reason that in the parliamentary procedure from the Croatian party of pensioners we referred this proposal to the conclusion. Because the fact is that the problem of the pensioner's compensation first appeared in 2006 and I know reliably that a number of pensioners have reported to the vacancy attorney. However, the report did not record this, and we are very curious and we are very interested in the Croatian party of pensioners' opinion on the matter. I'm sure one significant number between 343 pensioners or pensioners also refers to the compensation of pensioners. And why the Croatian Parliament couldn't know what the Ombudsman's opinion was about the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88161	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88162	Well, I absolutely agree with my colleague Hrejo when he talks about cases that are not mentioned in this report. In fact, I believe that if all of these were not to know, a thousand 600 cases or how many were precisely mentioned in this report, then reports would probably be about half a meter thick, which, of course, is possible, nor can they be carried out in any such report. But I support this initiative to be submitted in addition to this part, and let's see how many cases of compensation were actually taken into account and how many were possibly solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88163	Next replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88164	In her presentation, therefore, she cited several contributions, thus proving what happens when justice does not function precisely because of the long-term nature of the procedure. I also think that the long-term process is one of the biggest problems that our judiciary has to face. That's what our attorney in my report warns us about, so I'm going to quote this paragraph that's quite dramatic. In fact, he points out that in reality, the longevity of the procedure affects the weak and the poor most. There we could tell the disabled as was the example. On the one hand, the most common solution to the problem has become a vital issue, which requires a quick solution. And on the other hand, those who have power and money, and usually both of them usually realize that they are solving their cases in shorter terms. Why is that? We don't think that's the way it should be, the more the latest data tells us, the data put out by EUROSTAT for the Republic of Croatia for 2004, that the poorest citizens are over 65 years old. There are also 18% of citizens in the Republic of Croatia living below the poverty level. So they too are much, much harder to exercise the right to legal protection. And that's why I'm warning you, that's why it wasn't in your replica, but I think in your statement that we should all pay attention to allowing these people who are poor, powerless, weak to have the right to free legal assistance. And it also seems to me that this government has prepared the Justice Department for the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which has therefore been ready for the parliamentary procedure since 2005 and it is unacceptable that such a law, which is ready to this day, has not come into the parliamentary procedure. But as such, I think it would help many who really need help to come to protection and legal aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88165	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88166	Well, here's counterpart Pavlic mentioned this bill on free legal aid. I am afraid, given the way the government works, that even if the law was passed, I am not sure how effective its implementation would be, given the current practice of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88167	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88168	Comrade Perman! You said here in your statement that in one court case, the attorney general asked for a report and didn't get it. Well, it's no wonder. But in the end, if he had received the report, I wonder what would have happened, it seems to me that the result would have been the same and that opinion would have been formed and exclusively quoted by a mere lawyer who said: "According to the indications that the office receives is visible that the ministry's services in the investigation of complaints are generally satisfied with the answer of the President of the Court or even the judge in question, while direct insight into the court case file is a rare exception. The judicial inspection, according to the ministry itself, does not normally monitor the complaints and representations of citizens.". And now imagine, fellow Members, not a single case against judges in 2006 was initiated on the basis of the facts set out in the examination procedure of the performances. What can we conclude from this report? That we actually have a ministry that promotes the ineffectiveness of the judicial authority. And that's actually what the attorney general wants to tell us with this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88169	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88170	Well, I agree entirely with what my colleague Lalic said. I can add that there is only one control over the work of the courts at the citizens' request, so only one throughout the year and it is also the fact that nothing would likely change to things if a report was received, given that very often some arguments in the incoming reports that the Ombudsman received simply formal nature. As I said before, the request has not been signed or submitted in a special form, it is not a good address and similar things just enough to satisfy some form to give some kind of answer but the real will to solve the problem is not at all and will not be carried out at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88171	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88172	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Perman, you have quite rightly pointed out the parts of the Ombudsman’s report in which it is established that the authorities of the state and institutions with public authority or do not respond to the counsel’s questions or respond with great delays or these answers are purely formal. But in the report, which I warned last night, there are parts that are found that the Ombudsman did not receive an answer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia when he asked for certain documents that were necessary for me to review the implementation of parliamentary decisions. In its statement or opinion on this report, the government does not, in its view, express the intention to launch legislative initiatives directed by the Ombudsman, so let's say the Government does not want or did not indicate that it would launch changes to the law that would limit the possibility that the second-degree body would be devoid of a first-degree decision and return to a decision first-degree decision, and let's say ten times as long as it leads to the maximum lengthening of the proceedings. Well, since the government doesn't want to, so accept the lawyer's offer and go with the legal initiative, then we have to go to parliament. And I believe that there is a responsibility of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Legislatives to deliver to the Assembly, following a careful analysis of the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, the opinion and concrete proposals on changes to the laws which will remove this situation from year to year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88173	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88174	Well, I also mentioned in my presentation this particular case when the Government did not submit a report to the occupier and regarding the decisions of this House and definitely there seems to be no mechanism which, more or less, would not be able to sanction this Parliament's contempt of its decisions in relation to the executive authority or the government, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88175	Honorable representativeplatimir sabati next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88176	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, Mrs. Perman has shown in just a few of her specific examples of life that the law is not being respected and that the proceedings are being delayed, that the administration does not want to help or give legal assistance to the poor as it should. There's no answer to any failures. So these are all your findings. However, what I was initially offered for this replica is in principle a procedure for disabled people. In fact, the Labour Act says very precisely that public companies should employ 24% of people with disabilities and if we were to have a chance to see a list of all employees in these public enterprises owned by either the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local or regional self-government, we would see that this law is not respected. And that's also been established in previous reports by the attorney general, and no one is responsible for that. So this has offered me that, in some ways, both now and through this debate and through such replicas, we once again appeal to allow such disabled people to have a chance at employment that they can also contribute in some way to their socialization or to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88177	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88178	Unfortunately, my colleague Sabati and I are familiar with several cases of non-employment or employment of people with disabilities in inadequate jobs and despite taking certain measures, some institutions are unfortunately deaf. And I agree and support your initiative to really bring more effective mechanisms in order to implement this law in practice, the implementation of this law can be brought into practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88179	Next replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88180	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. My replica refers to Mrs. Biserko Perman in part that she did not mention all the bright examples that occurred in the Republic of Croatia and the important shifts that you saw through your work and taking complaints. I would also refer to what is said in the Ombudsman's report on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In fact, it is clear that it is important to reduce the number of complaints relating to the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry, so from the previous 38, it was reduced to 20, which is important through this observation in this text, clearly shows that teams in the Croatian Defence Ministry have done their job in detail and thoroughly, that they have served Croatian defenders. That sensitivity towards Croatian defenders was considered a priority. That there were no calls and insults to Croatian defenders, which clearly states from this report, which shows that the Croatian government and the Croatian Ministry of Defence in this assembly is actually quite different from the issue stemming from the law. And the adoption of a new Law that came into force in 2005 1.1 clearly defined all the rights arising from it and they were participated in a partnership relationship with the defence population. I would therefore like to say that even so, these bright examples that speak about the work of the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the need for members of their families are certainly a bright example in this report which is commended by the Ombudsman, and ultimately the work that has been defined through the findings of the state audit tells us that it has been done impeccably in this Ministry without any objections and therefore, please also tell your colleague Pancic that, to learn how this ministry is now established.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88181	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88182	Well, it is clear that there were also positive examples of solving cases by acting as a public defender. I didn't specifically mention them in my debate because it should be a normal practice, and if it were done so, the attorney general and perhaps the other defenders wouldn't be necessary. And as for the comments about my colleague Pancic, I think they're completely inappropriate right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88183	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88184	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm going to talk about this bright side of the report, too. We can demagoguely access this report and criticise everything and everything, but I think the most important thing is what the public defender himself has found. And that, in general, means generally in all areas of property-legal relations, speaking of rights and so on, that the number of complaints is reduced compared to previous periods. Of course, we can't be happy and satisfied that there are still a number of irregularities, which should still be pointed out daily in failures but what matters is that the number of complaints is reduced. What we can all talk about together and what we need to talk about is the longevity of court proceedings. Surely no one in this country is satisfied with that. So as for the length of court proceedings, today we have cases that have lasted over the past few decades. I know of a case from Dubrovnik where over 30 years of court proceedings are being conducted on one property-law issue. So we certainly can't and can't be satisfied with that, but it's not about the current mood of this or that or this or that government. This is obviously a problem that needs to be dealt with systematically and in this sense that a really large number of steps have been made, for example, in fixing the cadastres. All that has been missed over the past decades or what has not been done, of course, is impossible to fix overnight, but many positive examples remain. And in that sense here's what I want to give you my contribution that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88185	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88186	Yeah, it's true that the number of complaints is reduced. That's right. However, this is because people simply no longer have faith in the system, so very often they do nothing rather than because there are fewer irregularities. And as for the catastra work, that procedure was initiated by the past government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88187	And respected representative Ante, Anto Bagarić. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88188	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished representative Bisserka Perman has mentioned a real threat to the rights of a citizen in terms of participating the costs of the geodetic measurement of land. Yes, it is an obligation and a right for a citizen to participate in resolving his property-legal status on the land he owns. And I don't think there's any real citizen's threat here in that sense. The current law also regulated and said that the state is obliged or a state institution to make a survey in urbanized areas every five years. Or unurbanized environments every ten years. But it did not give the possibility and the right to resolve the property-legal status of the one who owns it has land. What Mr. Matušić said and I thank him, it really seems a lot in terms of taking down the land catastre, but not the property-legal state. This is the separate status of the geodetic administration from the Ministry of Justice or the land book from the catastra. But it seems really much. And almost at all costs, land measurement costs were involved by the state using funds and credit banks, the World Credit Bank and its own funds. But we must conclude all together that there is still over 60% of the land in terms of property-legal arrangements in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88189	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88190	In this case, when it comes to participation... high on the burden of the citizens. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] As for the construction of land cadastres, the government has raised EUR 29 million from the World Bank in order to start this project and finally end somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88191	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88192	Your Honor, Mr. President, Attorney General, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, here we all are more or less consistent. It is a finding by the attorney general that the number of complaints received is reduced or reduced. In one word, it doesn't grow. Now the question is, why is that? The social map for this period, the 2006 report period, is certainly no better than that for 2005. If nothing else retired, there were 30,000 new pensioners with an average pension of 1,500 kuna, which is not enough for seven days of decent life. Clearly, a man simply has to, must manage or must live what, with what he has. Then the question arises, and why do we have fewer complaints in such a social situation today than in 2005? Maybe our citizens don't believe in existing institutions. Perhaps they suspect that a mere attorney general might be able to help them at all. What is certainly not good, and what the Ombudsman finds that the authorities ignore your enquiries by falling into a body that must beg, I do not know, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism. I don't wonder what's going on with them. Either one of the Justice Department, whether or not you're going to get an answer to the question you asked, or perhaps with the right of Mrs. Perman thinks or as she seems, I literally wanted to quote her when she says that maybe she thinks we're not a normal or legal state. I said yesterday, I thought yesterday, I said yesterday that a public defender hardly could help anyone. However, it is good that he is trying to help it is no longer small. As a rule, who's talking to the attorney general? He's talking to a poor man who's been suffocating by straws thinking he's gonna get the help he deserves in front of that body, and he should get it. But what we will do in a country where it may most precisely be depicted is this current social situation through that folk proverb that “an orphan and a God is heavy. ” Why are the demands of our pensioners in the first place? Well, because these pensions look like one last rub. Look at the social map of the retirement population. Up to 500 kuna 62000 citizens are receiving a pension. From 500 to 1000 kuna of them 116000. From 1,000 to 1500 kuna, they're 156000. 1500 to 2000 kuna receive 295000 kuna. So, in total, it's about 630,000 people in this country living below the edge to express poverty. If not equalized soon, new pensioners in this country may be in such an extremely ungrateful situation. It is clear to me in one European Union that we have three employees on one pensioner. In Croatia, the situation is one point to thirty-nine. In Croatia, the unemployment rate is 16%. There is an end to Istria, Zagreb where this unemployment is 6% to 7%, although I am deeply convinced that soon there will be a bigger problem in this country than in the workplace. Now, the question arises what can the Ombudsman do in that finding when he himself finds that in 2001 the average pension was 43.6%, 2005 compared to the average salary. 41.32%, 2006. 39.7%. And what's tomorrow gonna be when women have to retire at 65? Is about that at some other time, but it should already be taken up with one positive discrimination that a woman with alleged discrimination who has a child retires two years earlier, who has two children four years old, who has three children, say six years earlier. A similar form should be applied as Slovenia or one Czech Republic knows today. Why do I mention these pensions? Because I'm a public defender, he puts the emphasis when pensions are based on page 14 at the length of the proceedings from applying for retirement to a positive solution, i.e. to obtaining a first pension. This procedure, gentlemen, must not last as it is today a year, and in some cases with an international element and a year and a half. The procedure must be reduced to 60 days. These procedures must not last longer. If the pension of our pensioner can't provide a dignified age, then at least the administration can't question that dignity of a man, he can't step on it. Because it's really fundamental, I think I'd say, stepping when, say, from applying to a first pension has to wait a year, and some people wait a year and a half. What might have happened to me in this report, I mentioned it yesterday in front of the club, but I'm going to say the most disturbing thing is actually this finding on page 17 of this report. Mr Malcic, the attorney general here, literally says that if the disabled work is unemployed, that is, outside pension insurance of a new pension, the new pension is determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 174(3) by applying a special pension factor of 0.66667 possible full disability pension. Since 18 December 2002, amendments to the Pension Insurance Act have increased this factor to 0.8%, only partially correcting injustice. It further states that if a person with disabilities uses the previous right to work with reduced working hours means 4 hours in accordance with Article 174 or has been established professional incompetence for work after the application of that law, or has started to carry out any other activity in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, his pension is recalculated by applying a second pension factor of only 0.333 of his disability pension, which is actually only a third of his disability pension. I think it may be the central part of this report. What I'm saying is that our people with disabilities can't be cut off. If they've been deprived of their disability since 1.1.99. If I'm good at interpreting this part of the Attorney General's Report, then it should cost us, as pensioners without the Constitutional Court's decision, that debt or that compensation as they call it, eight-year-olds back, how much it cost us because it should be our moral obligation. What else do you say? That we have inflation of the attorney generals, that is, no doubt about it. In order for all these defenders to be aware under the arraignment of the Ombudsman, I think that there is one consensus in this House today, and the sooner that happens, the more effective and more effective this institution will be. What's also interesting are the situation in the penitentiary, and I will look only at these cases of overdose in our prisons or what we had opportunity to read yesterday that this drug dealer from Korčula Cvik nicely from his cell still organizes that network. He's got a cell phone, marijuana, drugs, I don't know what not. How is it possible that in these criminal drug institutions there is like on the street, like in front of our schools, like in children's playgrounds, like in sports halls? It's something that's just terrible, what should be affected, like that monster, to contain as clearly as possible both in schools and in playgrounds among other things, it cost what it cost to test drugs, like sometimes young men, to test girls for drugs when they drive those vehicles. I want to believe now at the end this country certainly deserves better, this country certainly can do better. It's always been in these areas of social difference, always will be. There's no government that's going to contain them entirely. There were always sick, there were always those without a job, there were always those who had broken-down families, there was always crime, but there was never that when someone worked 30, 35, or 40 years when he retired to feel social cases. And I just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88194	...to this...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88195	Thank you. The answer to that, thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88196	You say, colleague, you literally said that pensions were like a figure of last rites. You see, the last fat is not only a correction to the world beyond, but it can be with the last fat and healed and thus survive. But with these, especially new pensions hard and not at all. And I'm especially glad that you're apostropheist again as a speaker on the situation in the penitentiary. It's just proof that no, that this government has no answer to important social issues, that it ran a completely wrong criminal justice policy that was then reflected in the debacle both in chaos and in the collapse of the penalty system. That and the alarming state are being warned by the veggie attorney general. Literally last year, the situation in our prisons and penitentiary is below human dignity. It is now to the extent that the safety of both prisoners and guards, and then the environment of each other where prisons and penitentiary facilities are located, is alarming. The government is totally deaf. So this condition that we've all realized is very difficult hasn't improved. Even so, things got worse. Here, last year, I asked the Justice Committee to launch a thematic session on this particular issue in order to act spotlessly and so that some kind of intervention means would at least resuscitate the existing situation until it comes to life, that is, until a reform of the criminal justice is initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88197	And the next replica, the esteemed Zdenka. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You didn't give it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88198	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88199	After, later. I'd be happy to give you an answer, no problem like I gave everyone. But you didn't show.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88200	And the fact that we took the word out yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88201	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petričević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88202	Mr. President, colleague Cain. You said the most complaints had to do with the pension and pension payments. Absolutely and that's true. But you have to admit something, that, that this government went into the implementation of the constitutional decision, paid off the first and second wars to Croatian pensioners. And since you've heard there's going to be a payment of the third and fourth wars soon. As for red tape that questioned man's dignity absolutely only at a time when. Didn't bureaucracy, indecisiveness, irresponsibility towards the ministries, bring and undermine the dignity of the man, or Croatian police officers at St. Mark's Church, or St. Mark's chapel for over 509 days. As for the Croatian state as a normal state or rule of law, Croatia is a sovereign, independent state, and individuals have all kinds, and there are bright examples in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88203	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88204	Well, what do you say? I'm sorry, God, he doesn't know what he's saying. Pensions don't bring this government back. Pensioners pay their pensions back. And through several institutes. First of all, by reducing the total amount of pensions compared to the average salary from 43% in 2001 to 39% in 2006 and by selling national silver. Whether it's INA or HT or something. It's good until we start selling something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88205	Representative Caine, it is inevitable for you to give a warning because of this offensive remark at the expense of MP Zdenka Babić Petričević. We hope that the warning will be educationally effective even though I'm very skeptical of it. We're going to individual clubs, five-minute debates. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88206	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. Police Attorney with his associates. Well, here, in the shortest lines, I'll tell you how we at the Croatian Party Club of Rights have this report. In fact, it is not only the 4th time, but it may already be the 10th, 15th time when the Ombudsman tells the Croatian Parliament, I am your authority, I have your power of attorney and, according to your authority, I should protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings against the state administration and bodies with public authority, I should ensure that constitutional and legal rights are protected for citizens in procedures conducted in the Ministry of Defence, Armed Forces and Security Services, protection of citizens' rights against local and regional authorities, and protection of rights to local and regional self-government against state authorities. But I'm powerless. I am powerless because you have legally given me measures that come down to advice, warning and recommendation. Those measures, which you have given me, cannot be implemented in the part of the provision of Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If you want me to be your authority, if you want me to do what the Croatian citizens ask me to do, change the Law on the Ombudsman, give me such powers where I will be able to act, not that I will have to realize that court disputes last on average for over 10 years in Croatia. There's nothing I can do about it. To take administrative action, we have a case that lasts 12 years, I can't do anything about it. I can ask the ministry for an answer, it doesn't deliver it to me. I can warn the government, the government is doing nothing. What should be said in the event that a specific case is solved in administrative proceedings for 12 years? No one's answering. And in the end, it is so bizarre for the ministry's arguments to insist that, say, the interior minister doesn't have a pen, because it was said six months ago that he had it on his signature. Thus, the same reasoning is bizarre for this solution situation at Minister Calmeta's office. And now the attorney general tells us, look. You've given me power of attorney, but you're not doing anything and you're giving me new assignments today so I should do something. So how am I going to do when I can't even do this because you've authorized me to work under Article 92 because you hear the state administration behaves that it's above, not just above the attorney general, but above the Croatian Parliament. Because a single minister won't respond to the occupier, that means he ignores the Croatian Parliament. The fact that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is not responding to the Ombudsman, it is a message to the Croatian Parliament, so what do I care what you think I should do, I will do as I do. Here's what's in the shortest lines of the attorney general's messages. And if this is how it's going to be discussed every year, and if it's possible to argue the same thing, it's going to be the sixth meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the same thing will be said, the same gentlemen will be sitting there, it'll be 1656 or 1655 cases, they'll show their impotence again, and they'll say I can't say anything again, I repeat the desperate cry again, give you something to make it finally work. Give me something. Because the attorney general has specific powers and measures of law, how to force the one who violates Croatian law. Because this is about breaking Croatian law. If the dispute lasts over 10 years, if the administrative course is resolved for over 12 years. If you put yourself in retirement it's the same administrative procedure if the disputes last over two years. If disputes in the administrative court of Croatia last from 6 to 7 years. If the administrative court of Croatia saw this last according to the access to information, violates the law and does not operate according to the law, makes judgments and goes to the Constitutional Court, so what is the message in terms of the functioning of the rule of law. It means that we also agree that we are also powerless, that we have been defeated by this red tape of the government and the other bureaucracy that sends these messages to and to the General Prosecutor and to the Croatian Parliament. I don't think you can do this anymore... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88207	Thank you. The PGS Club, the IMF SBH, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88208	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. I would agree with what Agent Kovacevic said. We have here in some way a micro insight into all the problems of non-functioning of the rule of law, and I think all these reports over the past few years have been quite similar, the problems are repeated. Therefore, in these few final thoughts of the report by the Ombudsman, I would like to stress the following. Six proposals listed in the 2006 report on this issue should be implemented as soon as possible. First, personnel and material training of reference services. Second, the creation of appropriate conditions in the Administrative Court. Third, an analysis of the procedure for the silence of the administration with measures in order to make the procedure an effective remedy. Fourth, an analysis of the application of the provisions of Articles 235, 237, 242, 243. The law on general administrative procedure in order to allow multiple return of the case to re-trial. Fifthly, the need for consistent application of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 27a. which undertakes to indicate, in the preparation for the adoption of the law, the statement of the impact assessment of the law on the number of civil servants and subsistences, which means the impact on legal resolution. And in the end of the sixth, the obligation of resolute ministers to regularly monitor and analyse data on the resolution of administrative matters and the exercise of citizens' rights. It is also necessary to agree with the evaluator's assessment that the better functioning of the administration in the Republic of Croatia needs to speed up decentralisation and transfer of administrative services and funds to local units and to coordinate the salaries of civil servants in the state administration with those in the local administration and to increase salaries of the most professional and necessary category of civil servants as one of the measures against corruption. As in the case of long-term administrative proceedings, the number of complaints to the Ombudsman was not reduced due to the length of the court proceedings in 2006 either. There is no doubt that the length of court proceedings remains the biggest problem of the Croatian judiciary. The report also mentions the number of complaints by the Ministry of Justice, as well as data on the number of lawsuits for overcoming a reasonable period of time in the county courts, the Supreme Court and still at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. If I didn't, I'd just end up looking at some request from the vehicular attorney who's referring to the establishment of new special law enforcement bodies. I really think that there is one tendency for the role of the occupier of divorce, so I would suggest, with the three current ones, that the future institutions of this kind still get under control, i.e. in part, of the current occupier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88209	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88210	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club assesses this report by the Ombudsman as very high quality and good and it is really drawn up according to the already classic one methodology, contains all the necessary data, all the necessary charts. It also describes individual cases, but what I mean is, you know, it's a collection of complaints about the work of the system, and we have 1655 of these complaints. And on the other hand, you know, we have millions and administrative and court cases. And now that we've combined with each other, I think it would be a little dangerous to make a general assessment that everything is bad, that nothing has been done, that nothing has happened to improve the situation. It is doubtless that this should very much reflect these individual cases where we see that the system is not working, no doubt that we need to process those people who have been running an object for 9 or 10 years. But to tell and draw conclusions from the fact that our system doesn't work I don't think it's fair and good for all those great officials in the administration who make the system administrative in many segments work. You know the management is also when we come to the home office to report the fact of birth or death. The management is also when we come to the Police to take out a passport that you can take out in Croatia in one day. It's also management when you go to get a building permit. It's all management. In a series of these segments, in millions of these objects, it all works impeccably and people work hard and work hard for small money. I'm very sorry that in 2000, I don't know what reason these people's salary is cut. We raised it to an envious one today, I'm not going to say the envious word would be too harsh, but we raised it, we simply raised the level of those salaries. What needs to be done in the administration, it needs to definitely be reorganised, it is necessary to pass a new Law on administrative procedure. The government has already made some moves. There's a task force. Basic principles are also laid down for the creation of a new Law on Administrative Procedure. But what I'm saying is, we need to inform the administration. What have we done here? This year, a billion and 230 million kuna will be invested in informing our administration. That's not what it's been until now. The record was, the largest amount invested was 500 million in 2004. We've done the H.I.T.R. Today you can register a company in the Republic of Croatia within three days. We've passed amendments to the Court Register Act. Today, when you register a company, you can come to a public notebook. You don't have to carry any papers anywhere. By pressing the keys enter your documents from the public notebook's account they go to the Trade Court. So, that's enough. The number of pending cases in our courts, you know, is smaller than 2000 and '95. With a million-and-a-half of what we found in 2003, we're now under a million-and-a-half. So a lot has been done but, of course, a lot of work is still ahead of us. And as good as we're going to do in the future, we're going to make big moves on complaints, and individual complaints will actually be enough. And I don't agree with the claim that the government is deafening to this. All these measures I've just listed, all of what we've done is just say that the government wants the system to work and that it's taken a number of measures to make the system work. So we really take this report into consideration, accept that there are such complaints as are mentioned here and we are also looking for the responsibility of all those people, if there is, of course, why certain items are waiting and haven't been solved for so long. But we don't accept those facts and those claims that nothing has really been done. Because actually the figures say that big shifts have been made and that it seems a lot and of course it will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88211	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88212	Well, here's what I have to do to correct one incorrect quote from my colleague Bosnjakovic. Often in the public figure with this finding, I don't know where it comes from, that there has been a significant decrease in the number of inflows in our courts. So I'll just tell you the information. In fact, you said that the backlog of a million and 500 fell somewhere now to below a million. The number of backlogs. Well, that's not true. Here you go. I'm just going to quote you a report from the High Violent Court that literally says: In the last three years, so from 2003 to here, there has been a total increase in new cases by as much as 56.17%. And in the same period, the number of judges not only didn't increase but also decreased by 3 judges. Therefore, neither the inflow was reduced nor the number of delays in the total number of all cases in all courts was regular or specialised.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88213	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88214	209th, you know. The correct quote cannot be corrected incorrectly. I was talking about the total number of items and you're talking about only one segment that only makes up one part of that total number. You're referring to criminal cases, and I'm talking about a total of both criminal and civil and extra-parnished and misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88215	That's right. My colleague Antičević, you have only preferred on a separate basis and not on the whole. ... It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Vice-President of the House, Honored Representative Mato Arlovic, five-minute debate on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88216	Mr. President, the Attorney General of the State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We want the SDP representative's club to say this immediately, it will accept the Ombudsman's report for the period in question. But we have to say that year after year, we are increasingly concerned with the findings and finds a public defender, whom he has repeatedly presented in his reports. We therefore conclude that it is necessary to approach the adoption of a new law, therefore, not by amending and supplementing the new Law on the Ombudsman, and in it it should be possible for the vacancy of the Ombudsman as the authorised Croatian Parliament, as the Constitution says, to really be in a position not only to advise, but also to point out that, at certain times when necessary, when the other bodies of the state administration or members of the state government can initiate and conduct a procedure and even lead to procedures for the protection of rights prescribed by the Constitution and the law of our citizens. Secondly, why do we feel it is necessary to resolve, to pass a new law is among other things "and these technical issues and organisational issues from professional services, equipment to staff staffing of the Public Attorney's Office." It is clear that it is also necessary to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman in that part of the law. The third is even more important to us. It is necessary to stop the process of segmenting the attorney general. It is impossible for some of the new activities, if we may say so, to create new forms of attorney general by the social structure of the population. We believe that the constitutional provision that states that the occupier protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the procedure before the state administration and bodies that have public authority actually requires that we have a single and unique institution of the Polish Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia who can and should have a greater number of deputy occupiers specialising in certain areas and in this segment that they can actually not only collect information but also exchange information on cases, on cases, forms and content of infringements with the Constitution and the law of the prescribed rights of citizens so that they can work together and uniformly. Of course this will lead to efficiency and a higher degree of efficiency for us in the work of the Public Attorney's Office on the one hand. And from the other side to its rationalization. Because, you know, this procedure has to be stopped. The third thing we would particularly like to warn is the fact that we do not have only the silence of the administration, but can read very nicely that in fact the Ombudsman warns both of the unsuitable and especially not spotlessly or not in accordance with the necessary time and deadlines, the conduct on the one hand of the judicial authority and of the other part of the state executive authority, or if you want the Government. In such a situation, it is quite clear that the question arises whether we as a Parliament in whose name our authority is actually able to achieve that supervisory function that we are actually accomplishing. We get information, we get data, but the question is actually what with such reports, such cases when they're particularly in forms, strong and cardinal forms actually need to be done. Whether or not we can and should foresee that the issue of trust should actually be raised by a particular minister or government whose area is being dealt with when the Ombudsman finds itself infringing the human rights and freedoms of our citizens who, at the same time under the Constitution and the law and at the same time, the Government in accordance with its constitutional position, its legal position to direct the work of the state administration and ensure that it does, of course, and oversee the work of the state administration and at the same time implement the laws and that part has not been carried out and has not even shown itself to the findings of the Ombudsman. The same thing is definitely also that a debate must be opened about a problem called independence and independence of the judicial authority. Of course, the judicial authority must be both independent and independent in the trial and that is not doubtful, but that does not mean that in the business and responsibilities related to the performance of certain tasks it may be responsible. We will also have to seriously discuss on these reports whether it is necessary, among other things, to amend the Law on the State Judicial Council and to open the obligation to the State Judicial Council to submit once a year a report to this Croatian Parliament in the judicial area so that the Parliament can actually create a policy and direct further development in all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88217	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88218	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support this report because it considers it useful and well-designed. And the question is, why are we talking so much about this report when the attorney general actually doesn't have any executive power, nothing concrete happens after the arraignment report, after it points to something that has definitely not been done, which has been done wrong, which no one has answered and so on. So we're talking because the attorney general warns us about everything we've failed to do to ensure that our country fulfills its fundamental function, i.e. to protect those who protect themselves can't help those who can't help themselves. Nor have we, as a legislative authority, and especially the executive authority, done enough to protect those whose rights are at stake, who seem to be such huge injustices as can be seen in this report. I said already in an individual debate, the injustices here are just the tip of the iceberg. Let's not be fooled by the numbers of a thousand 200, a thousand 500, and I don't know how many cases. These are the ones who came to the attorney general, who dared to do so, who know that there is a occupier, who knows how to address the occupier, who are close to Zagreb so that they can do so. Those figures should certainly be multiplied by ten if not by a table, and then imagine that amount of injustice in this country. Of course it's wrong to say anything in the state doesn't work. It's not true that nothing works. All of these flat-rates don't really mean God knows what, but it doesn't work enough and it doesn't work well. What works is not the topic of today's debate, the topic of today's debate is what doesn't work, and the public defender exists here to warn about what doesn't work, not to praise what works, that's what the government does. The Croatian People's Party Club has proposed the conclusions you have received on the benches which would in some way satisfy the demands of the Advocate General to discuss the key problems he put before this House. The conclusions, that is, of what the Ombudsman is seeking, should actually solve three things. First, to organize field work, to enable both financial and organisational, which would mean simply more money. If the occupier isn't in the field, then a thousand or a thousand 500 cases are a lot. If you showed up on the field, you might see that it's actually a very small number. Secondly, one firmly defines his work and his work as part of the circle, not that he enters a proposal every couple of weeks for a new specialised vehicular attorney. Obviously, a new law needs to be made to define the work of the attorney general, to appoint him deputies, assistants, department heads, whatever they call themselves to deal with specialized affairs. And thirdly, to allow the attorney general to act in the field of non-functional or poor functioning of the judicial system. Today, the bear Brundo and the judges are protected in such a way that man cannot even look at them, let alone object to a powerful judgment. ... Yeah, it's not the bear Brundo that protected. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The journalist is saddened for objecting to a powerful verdict. So if you can't talk about it in Croatia, I don't know what you can talk about. Once again, I stress, let's support this report, the HNS club will support it, but let's also support the conclusion that we're going to do something about the work of the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88219	Thank you. And for the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88220	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So there's another report before us by the attorney general that I think we can't take him legally, to say that he's been through this procedure, and I think that this report is very indicative, and unlike some of them who have claimed that these are excessive cases, individual cases, and that our system actually works, we don't think so. We think that the number addressed to the occupier is not an indication of the excellence of individual cases, but rather shows that citizens' mistrust in the system of state authorities, and it is rare that citizens who decide to complain because it is likely that those who have decided to complain today follow this report and follow this debate. And when they actually see that we haven't done much to make it right then they're losing their courage and these cases are going to be less and less. What is the point of these remarks, or the findings of the Ombudsman? I think it's nothing different than last year, but last year's report was written in a stricter dictionary. It was much more concrete and much more understandable. Furthermore, the comments concern the state administration, the long-term sustainability of administrative procedures, which suggests that we need to do something to make this state administration decide faster, to be more efficient, to be more professional. But what do you do? What to do when a public defender who has authority makes a recommendation, he suggests, according to last year's report, 6 recommendations. But only one was started with realisation and nothing else. The importance and justification of the recommendations made by the Ombudsman is also indicated by the European Court of Human Rights in two judgments. This is not an honor for Croatia. It is for Croatia's compromise and it should not have happened. The D.A.'s office says he's locating and responsibilities. Whoever is responsible for an inefficient state administration, for the long-term nature of the proceedings, and I quote: "Ministers are responsible for the overall resolution, which is headed by the rights of citizens established by law and other regulations, legally and within the prescribed deadlines. It is their obligation to regularly monitor and analyse data on the resolution of administrative matters and the exercise of citizens' rights, to take measures or to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the necessary measures. It cannot be a good minister who has had administrative proceedings for years or only proceedings at the ministry for two to four years." So the attorney general clearly locates responsibility. To whom are the ministers responsible? They're responsible for this Parliament. We've never had a request to reconsider the minister's responsibility before, so why is that? The second part of the objections which apply, which is to the long-term length of court proceedings. So ineffectiveness of the judicial authority. Who does that suit? The citizens certainly do not, but those who use the ineffectiveness of the judicial authority for their own wealth at the expense of others and criminals who do not prevail from crime because they know that the sanctions of society and the hand of justice will not arrive. And that's exactly what the Department of Justice encourages. How? Well, it's been put out in replicas before. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice does not send a judicial inspection on complaints and, when irregularities are established, when liability is established, there is not a single procedural procedure. And if there are no strict procedures, if there is no resolution of judges who keep the case in drawers until the expiry date is up, can we expect the effectiveness of the judicial authority? I will not remind you of what the Ombudsman said last year when he claimed that the judicial authority, judges in the Republic of Croatia are not independent but dependant on the financial potentials unfortunately of the criminal mile group. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party, the Croatian Peasants' Party, accepts this report with the conclusions we have proposed and are in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88221	Thank you. Final Review of the Public Advocate Jurica Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88222	I would first look back at one part of today's debate. Namely, the objection that the Ombudsman is acting against one category of citizens and not another. The occupier is acting on complaints from the citizens. Therefore, the attorney general of the public learns that human rights violations are fundamentally and fundamentally obtained on the basis of complaints from citizens. We are not one big, big, big, big office that monitors the state of human rights in all areas and can at all respond to all questions of human rights violations. I would say that if we're dealing with returnees then that only means, and what's visible from our statistics is that the number of complaints of returnees is very large. For example, when it comes to categories of Croats from Bosnia, then we don't have any concrete complaints in the Office. So we cannot treat lawyers or ombudsmen in other countries unless we have the right to make such a complaint and we cannot intervene in a concrete procedure or seek their help. And on the issues of their legislation, their relationship we cannot replace either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Resort Ministry or the Government to bring us directly to other countries to say so. That's all I wanted to say because we're dealing with it. When we go to the field, we were in the Capital of Friendship in Chepin, and we dealt most with just the Croats from Bosnia who are still in that settlement and who are now breaking down and having major problems. So when we're on the scene and we're getting complaints, then of course we're acting on all such complaints. We're not making any difference, though between different categories. The second thing I wanted to say about Požega or Požega County, as far as I know, is that we've just requested the Central Office's intervention to examine the case of the discharges there. However, as things are now happening in 2007 and this is the 2006 report, we were unable to process it in the report. Something to say is working, for the media. I did not accidentally report and yesterday in the opening statement stressed that the report deals with its 95% management page number. So it's a fundamental activity of the attorney general. All a few pages refer to the judiciary. Unfortunately, media attention, I could see for myself this morning by listening to the radio talk about a report by the occupier only from the point of view of the judiciary. So that should tell us something. This says that the media as well as citizens consider the judiciary a big and serious unresolved issue. So I'm not dealing with the judiciary, I'm just dealing with how much of the complaints the citizens who come to me have to do in some way. And quite for the sake of the public, it's quite clear that I don't bring or ever question the existence of the current attorneys for children and gender equality. I'm not even questioning this new one that they call student defenders. So, which has no competitive jurisdiction but has relations between students and their higher education institutions. If journalists have their attorney for relations between journalists and houses, the owner too. But these are other types of attorneys. I am merely against it, and I have made it clear that the founders who have almost the same or competitive jurisdiction as the Advocate General are established and because of the constitutional objection which does not comply with our Constitution, and also because of rationality and efficiency. Furthermore, I would just say yes, many have pointed out that the report is critically intrinsically intrinsic. However, I would support those who have said that this is also the task of the Attorney General's report. We are simply not a body that gives a general assessment of the situation for certain areas. If we gave it to me then, of course, there would be places for many of the shifts that were made. The one who carefully reads the report will see that we have recorded shifts in many areas. Also, the very fact that we point out some who have neither shown themselves to us nor respected our recommendations shows that most of them and others respect these recommendations and that they are manifested to the public defender. So it should be understood that this is a report on the occurrences of human rights violations, not the general state of human rights. Because it can be completely misjudged from the number of cases. So if it's in the pension maximum number of 353 cases, that if we don't put it in relative relationship with the number of objects that is over 500,000 in that, say, and it counts to millions in years, then you could get the wrong picture. However, this does not mean that in particular, through these individual cases, we have tried to point to some fundamental outcomes, some general phenomena that lead to human rights violations both before the administration and the judiciary. One such issue is the relationship between administration and citizens. So, in principle, the question of that relationship. Another issue is the judiciary in relation to citizens and the public. So, openness or incarceration of the judiciary to social reactions, so to speak, of the environment. As far as the administration is concerned, we think that in some areas, management still treats citizens as a government, not as a public service. So that she grants the citizens mercy, not that she gives them their rights. Why do we conclude that? We conclude because in some areas there is no adherence to the provisions or principles of the Law on Administrative Procedure. Therefore, those principles which fundamentally determine the relations of citizens and administrations, which are to help the ignorant party, are the equality of private and public interest, without speaking of respect for legal obligations in communication with parties, which is the famous Article 296. The General Administrative Procedure Act. I would point out that we are approaching the European Union, that in the European Union there is a rule for European officials when a request is made to contact the applicant, that it is given even the number of the working person's phone, and that I am not talking about that after 2 months when the deadline expires or even after 6 months that the party needs to be informed. We'd all have less to do. Both me and the Administrative Court if you'd take management like that. So there is something about this fundamental relationship where the administration is considered more power than that service that is responsible to that citizen. In this regard, I warned the ministers that they should, along with all the important state affairs, pay more attention to and resolution in the administrative process with all the development projects. It is an important function and I note that the minister is also personally responsible for that citizen who cannot receive an administrative solution within three or four years. You should understand that once. If there are objective reasons, and there are reasons we have pointed out in many ministries there is a complexity of regulations, changing the permanent regulation, staffing some, selectivity, low wages etc. However, they are obliged, when it is established in one area that such a situation is long to last, that we should not be warned by the European Court of Justice, we should go before the Government and ask that these issues be resolved. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I just stressed that one of the outcomes is the tendency of closing up to the public, while at the same time not resolving the issue of unquality and no biased work of judges. I pointed out in particular that until the judiciary system, which means both the State Judiciary Council and the Judiciary Board and the Presidents of the Courts within themselves, solve these issues, the issues of monitoring the work of judges, the control that will strengthen tendencies for interventions in the judicial power from other branches of government. That's inevitable. The public has already responded and heard this one today, therefore on the judicial system itself is too little, just as their association advocates some status quo. So they're not radical enough to solve within themselves. Some moves have been launched and the Supreme Court has launched, but the Ministry of Justice should also meet citizens' demands and as regards the free legal assistance and resolution of these courts, Zagreb Split, the Administrative Court that are causing the biggest problems. Well, what I'd also say is I don't quite agree with the evaluations of the impotence of the attorney general. If you have carefully read individual cases, and we have always assured ourselves that we have helped many in individual cases. But not just that. We have in many areas encouraged the resolution of some general issues – whether it is police work, whether it is a prison system that, after our report, some shifts have been made, etc. As in certain administrative areas I don't have, I have no illusion that we can do too much but certain shifts have been achieved. Strengthening the authority of the attorney general should not go in the direction that it in some way turns us into some third instance that might decide on the scale of the matter. Therefore, ours should only be in a way that strengthens our authority in a way that supports us and perhaps even more than the Croatian Parliament in its relation to the executive authority. And in the end, only two sentences about it. I must say, this is the third report that I submit and the last one in this assembly, I can say that, apart from certain exceptions that it has every time, it is my pleasure to say that both attention and position and opposition, the opposition, has always been focused on protecting the rights of citizens and improving the system, and the less it was one look that took care of the party and some political I would say, I will not say the bickerings, but many use that expression. It's a pleasure for me to be careful through my report that scrupulously we don't go into some scenes that are not the protection of human rights but that can also have a political character. In addition, it was likely that all those who have carefully read the report you have seen that some large number of cases extend and 10 years, and then it is very difficult to say which authority is responsible for which part of it. What I have to express a little dissatisfaction with is that it still seems to me that there are not enough mechanisms, the influence of the Parliament and its decisions on the executive power, and on the basis of the proposal and the evaluation of the attorney general. Some ombudsmen in some countries have one parliamentary committee or even a special parliamentary committee in charge of the relationship. And of course, the possibility of the influence of the attorney general depends also on the relationship between the executive and the Parliament. So in some countries, this disorder, which is called in a legal sense, is also called a jurisdictional disorder, and therefore the executive authority is more powerful. The Simeons have also been created because of the overall power of the executive government over parliament. And it is a matter of Parliament, however, of how much it will allow the Ombudsman's staff to make his recommendations, reports are in some way a guideline for solving in practice. Thank you very much again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88223	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88224	So I'm correcting an incorrect and fundamentally contradictory quote by the attorney general when he says he doesn't have the impression that he's powerless. You may not have the impression that you are powerless, but people who address you, whose disputes last over 12 years, not only are they powerless, but you are powerless, and we are powerless.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-17-0.u88225	Was that a correction to an incorrect impression? That would be a correction to an incorrect impression. ... I'm closing the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006 is hereby adopted. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against the accepted proposed conclusion. Second, the second proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: Opinions, objections and proposals shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Please vote, engage, vote. The result? With 105 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against the accepted proposed conclusion. It's the third proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I am voting on the following conclusion: it is binding on the Advocate General to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly within 30 days on the number of pensioners who addressed him during 2006 in connection with the compensation or implementation of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of 12 May 1998 and the Pensions Act, right? There's no word for it. And explain the characteristic cases and give their opinion. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 103 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion. Who voted against it? It's a mistake. It's a mistake. That must be a mistake. [[Intruder: Repeat, repeat!]] The fourth proposal for a conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, I am voting on the following conclusions: Under 1., the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Legislatives shall organise a joint debate and take a position on the 5 points of the proposal in the report on page 180, 181 and 182 of which the Ombudsman shall point to the need to take a position on the concept and further development of the institution of the Ombudsman and the defence office in the Republic of Croatia. To propose, within 90 days, amendments and additions to the Parliament, legislative regulations to ensure the effective work of the Advocate General under these circumstances. Secondly, the President of the Croatian Parliament, Ohohoho, is tasked with coordinating the Committee's work as set out in point 1. of these conclusions. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? For 35. Five abstentions. 63 against. He didn't conclude he got the necessary majority. And another fifth draft conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the HSS Representatives Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: proposals by the Ombudsman are accepted to improve the existing situation, especially those that point to the need to set state officials according to the criteria of expertise and continuity instead of political similarities and personal loyalty. The establishment of systematic supervision and assessment of the work of judges within the judicial system itself until the removal from the system of judges, which either by work or by the quality of judgments cannot meet the needs of the necessary standards of trial. And two. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to draw up a plan and programme of measures and activities necessary for the implementation of the adopted proposals and to report to the Croatian Parliament no later than 15 September 2007 on the basis of a proposal to resolve and improve the existing situation contained in the report. Please, let's get on with it. There's a vote to vote on. The result? For 32. 7 abstentions. 62 against. The conclusions didn't get the necessary majority.
