ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86942	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's been over a year, almost a year since the debate in the first reading of this bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. This is a really long period, so at the outset, although you have a final draft of the law, I will remind you of the proposed changes and additions, and of the supplement that was subsequently incorporated after the first reading debate. And I'll remind you that there were three bill proposals at the time. One of the HSP ranks, one of the HNS ranks. And I've tried part of their proposals since it didn't go a certain way, so I'm calling on my colleagues and colleagues to do another reading, if they see any more shortcomings, we can fix the law with amendments, because it wouldn't be a good thing to keep this law waiting for the end of the term, so that the law isn't passed and that it's one of the stories in the election campaign. And to actually avoid really solving the problem of both workers and employers. This is a bill relating to the protection of workers' rights, which goes towards the protection of their dignity and protection of working legal status, the protection of workers by an employer who is insufficient, the inspection of surveillance that is not effective. There was also a problem with too few inspectors. If you remember even at one stage, there was talk of hiring new inspectors, and then it gave up, and all of which cost the workers the most, creating fertile soil for working on black and for the grey economy which, of course, damages the state budget. The amount of penalties for infringements of an employer who disobeyed the provisions of the Labour Act in force in law are insufficient and unsatisfactory, because unfortunately companies are paid more often than if they respect the provisions of law and labour rights. Because if you look at statistics you'll see that very often, except for the minimum punishment they get something called a warning of non-compliance with laws and rights. The first article complements Article 30 of the applicable law in order to protect the dignity of workers in such a way as to prohibit, in addition to sexual harassment and forms of verbal insult and demeaning, including inappropriate communication between employers and workers such as abusive and offensive expressions. So I'm going to remind you of the case of women from a textile factory in Slavonia who publicly complained and expressed dissatisfaction over verbal demeaning and insult by their employer. The consequences are fear, mental instability and inability to concentrate on work. In an action that we spent openly on mobbing as a continuation of the "Paid Work on Sundays" action during which calls were made by citizens of all professions and educational categories, the most common problem is the combination of different types and verbal and psychological abuses. Out of the total number of respondents, even 70% said they were verbally abused at work. 48 of them also experienced psychological abuse. 15% professional degradation. Sexual abuse is 7% and physically 3%. Those who responded to a free phone during HSLS have exclusively insisted on not revealing their identity. Even 99% of them speak clearly of the fear of losing their jobs. And these data show the need for the urgent implementation of this article in the Labour Act to prohibit any form of verbal insult and demeaning, and to prevent the conduct of a worker who is below human dignity. What is new in this final proposal of the law since the first reading is that Article 30 of the applicable law is complemented by another new sentence, which states that under circumstances it is not justified to expect that the employer will protect the dignity of the workers is also meant to address the workers responsible or competent authorities due to reasonable suspicion of corruption or to file a complaint on that suspicion, that is, what fellow workers have called the protection of whistles. They are therefore given the right to report the employer for corruption uninterruptedly, which is extremely important. The whistles may be considered by people in the system reporting irregularities to the public or who report such irregularities to responsible persons or competent authorities. In modern democratic countries, these people are protected and rewarded while the situation is almost the other way around, so we're trying to change that part. Therefore, the system of values needs to be changed in Croatia. He had to stop being a fake. They need to be protected in a way that they can't lose their jobs, because if that happens, the possibility of being hired again is small, because they're marked by a public conviction that can be very powerful. This legal protection could in some ways be discussed as well as the form of a fight against corruption. Citizens who decide to report corruption or any abuse of power should be protected in both the public and private sectors. The rights of workers in relation to work on Sundays, holidays, or other days prescribed by law are constantly violated. The new items supplementing Article 46 of the current Labour Act shall be bound by employers if they wish, so they wish to work on Sundays, holidays or some other day for which the law stipulates that they are unworkable, only by a collective contract signed with a union in which the reasons, methods, criteria and conditions for working for those days will be determined. This reduces employers' self-will, exploiting workers who do not rarely in such days without compensation, without their right, to have the right to a second day off in a week. If we take into account the trade sector, retailing that employs about 65 thousand people, this data is later shown through a number of 40,000 people who do all or almost all weeks we see that it is indeed a very serious threat to labour rights, and probably each of us MPs in his daily life had the opportunity to meet with workers who warned us about such a problem. The data suggests that instead of 40 hours a week, store employees work from 58 and up to 75 hours a week, so it is good that the State Inspectorate, who started the inspection, responded after that reaction. I'll get back to you in the debate later, and I'll tell you some of the evidence that the State Inspectorate checked out after such reports, and it turns out that actually all the information that was reported on the phone was completely accurate, there were no false tips. During the "Paid Work on Sunday" action, citizens who responded to a free phone question about how our work was compensated on Sunday 91% of citizens responded that it was not compensated. 4% of workers said they received a salary supplement for working on a Sunday in cash and 2% said that instead of cash pay, they get the day off. In terms of between 3 and 100 workers who applied to the phones and stated that they are working on Sundays receiving an orderly fee as a salary allowance for Sundays. All workers who reported during the action claim that the employer violates their labour law rights and, in addition to working on Sundays, cite unpaid overtime during the week, deny full use of annual leave and other forms of violations of labour rights. The most complained were employees in large trade chains, the trade sector in general, then employees in the catering business and employees in the bakery activity. The only criterion for working on Sundays and overtime should therefore be to assess the employer whether and whether this work is to be adequately and additionally paid and to ensure the second day of the week for the worker. A complete ban on working on Sundays, which I know some colleagues and colleagues suggest would cause us to reduce labour and consumption, increase unemployment and endangerment of standards. And it's usually for middle-aged women or women who get a job this hard. The same article is complemented by provisions providing additional protection for parents with children of three years of age, single parents with a child up to six years of age and a parent with severe developmental disturbances from the obligation to work on Sundays, holidays or some other day for which the law stipulates that they are unemployed. Working these days under this bill of law for these parents would be possible only with their written consent. This form of the law gives us a recognizable human approach because it enables parents to decide whether they want to work or not, because it is not easy for all parents during the holidays or on Sundays to take care of their child at work and especially for single parents, so there is information that in Croatia single-parent families are mothers with children mostly around 156 thousand. It is difficult to assess how many single parents there are with children under the age of 6 and how many families there are with children up to 3 years old, but these figures themselves say that there are certainly a number of users to whom these changes would apply and who would benefit. In addition to Article 115 of this Act, a new paragraph 4 prohibits the dismissal of workers by an employer whose business space has been closed for up to 30 days due to the infringement, thereby establishing additional protection for such workers. This provision does not leave the possibility of any other interpretation of the grounds for firing and prevents misunderstandings that later ended in a court or antiquity. Article 214 of the applicable law complements inspection surveillance at least twice a year in shops employing more than ten workers. This increases supervision, introduces a monitoring obligation twice a year, which has not been the case so far. It is precisely because of weak and inefficient inspection supervision that almost most violations of workers' rights are committed. It is necessary to insist on respecting the provisions of the Labour Act and applicable collective agreements, to comply with legislative regulations and, when they are not respected, this problem must be addressed in no other way than more effective supervision of inspection services and tightening criminal sanctions. It must therefore increase the quality of the work of the State Inspectorate when it comes to the protection of the rights of workers and increase the number of competent inspectors who oversee primarily the trade sector because the existing number is insufficient and certain and those who oversee other sectors. That's good to know before the next budget is passed. For those reasons, more penalties should also be imposed for infringements of the Labour Act and infringements of collective agreements. Among other things, this proposal aims to achieve it. Therefore, the law significantly increases the fines, and we want to get rid of the existing situation when it is more worthwhile to pay the penalty for non-compliance with labour rights than to respect a collective contract. It is necessary to comply with the law because law-abiding already causes unfair competition in the market and that law-abiding reduces the state budget and it can be said that the penalties that are now in force in the existing law do not cause fear in employers who violate labour rights. People want to work, many of them said they wanted to work in direct phone conversations with our members. No one's running away from work but they want that work paid well. And when it comes to holidays, Sundays, and other days prescribed by law as unworkable, then it is necessary to pay extra for such a working day. Current sentences, both employers and trade unions agree, seem almost stimulating for those who violate those rights. And there's a record of the maximum penalties being expressed somewhere around 30 thousand kuna, the maximum penalty almost not being known, or just reproof. This is therefore the beginning of solving problems that are put before workers but also employers who really do not want to be all in the same basket and I believe that by the end of this term, other important laws such as the Minimum Salary Act will be put before us, perhaps a special programme for small trades that should be considered and I believe that here will be open and debates on the possible decision that women will be working until 65 years of age because according to existing laws or those who are allegedly in preparation could happen that women can work half a year and Sundays and that they will have to work for it until 65 years of age. We can appeal to European standards, but our family's standards are far below them. Thank you very much. I will listen to the debate and consider every amendment and proposal that appears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86943	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health. Oh, no? Legislative? I don't either. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86944	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, however, Ms. Djurđe Adlesic welcomes the proposal to address in a good way certain issues or provisions of the Labour Act, which relate primarily to the protection of workers' rights, as well as to improving their working-law status and dignity. It should also be pointed out that, in the course of the current application of the Labour Act, a number of shortcomings have been identified which, in the context of this proposal for a law, can be brought down to 3 basic questions. So first protection of workers' rights in terms of protecting the dignity of workers or protecting against any abuse by the employer. The proposed addition of Article 30 further seeks to protect the dignity of workers in such a way as to prohibit other forms of verbal insult and demeaning with already prohibited harassment and sexual harassment. Under other forms of verbal insult and demeaning, all procedures that, according to normal communication norms, constitute an insult and humiliation are proposed. We believe that this legal norm should be more precise if, for no other reason than this injury, the right of the worker to terminate his work until his own protection is secured and, of course, that eight-day period is opened, so to whom the worker is obliged to press charges in terms of the protection of his injured rights before the court of law. In this respect, it is certainly necessary to insist on the accuracy of this proposed legislative provision. Secondly, or another issue is the lack of protection of workers in employers who introduce work on Sundays, holidays or other working days prescribed by the law that they are unemployed. In this section, it is especially important to highlight the real problem of violating the provisions on the payment of overtime and work on Sundays and holidays and also the protection of those categories of employees in particular in terms of the protection of children's rights, the protection of family rights. It is, of course, about the work of parents with a child up to three years of age or up to three years of age and then on their own, single parents with children up to 6 years of age, or parents with disabled children. And the third question is indeed to accept the intensities that go after that to prescribe and more severe criminal penalties for... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My friend can't hear well. So to accept it and...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86945	And the island needs to be listened to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86946	Who goes after the fact that more severe criminal penalties are prescribed for those employers who systematically violate the provisions of the Labour Act and therefore the rights of employees. However, in relation to the proposed text of the law, the following points should be pointed out. Therefore, partial and incomplete amendments to the Labour Act or to the amendments to only individual legal institutes, and since the obligation to achieve full compliance in the context of pre-accession negotiations with the new Act in the field of labour relations arrangements at this point would certainly not be appropriate. It is indeed during the period since the first reading of this legislative proposal that today a analytical review of the compliance of Croatian labour legislation with the acquis of the European Union, which unequivocally stems from the fact that labour law regulations must therefore also be subject to more extensive and comprehensive amendments. It should also be pointed out that the Economic and Social Council has also defined itself as a comprehensive approach for the harmonisation of the Labour Act rather than for partial interventions in existing legal provisions. Under all of the above, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the good intention of proposing concrete legal solutions as the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86947	Thank you. SDP representative club respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86948	Dear Mr. President, dear Madam Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act which we at the SDP Club can in principle support but only as another good opportunity to discuss the position of workers today and here in the Croatian Parliament and to eventually come up with who they really are and to agree on concrete measures that can really improve the position of workers and workers in Croatia. It should be remembered that at the end of February in Croatia there were 2 thousand, 298 thousand 775 unemployed of which 61% women. In late 2006, the number of active people was slightly more than a million and 700 thousand inhabitants. So about 1 million 400 thousand employees. We have a million and 100,000 pensioners. About 600,000 workers work overtime today and 40% of them are therefore 240 thousand workers and workers are not paid for this overtime. Generally looking at the amendment proposal, there is no significant impact on the position of workers and the problems they face in the work process, such as this amendment does not change anything significantly in the areas to which it relates. The main problem of Croatian workers today stems from the fact that the existing laws and collective agreements and solutions that are so self-applicable in this proposal change of day are not being applied. What is this proposal trying to amend or update? First the problem of harassment. We assume that by doing so, the proposer means mobing but this, as defined, does not have much to do with the definition of mobbing, and we do not see what actually a worker or worker could get, or how more secure it is. It's just that it's not enough to expand the definition of harassment. But nothing will change in everyday practice nor will it affect the repair of the position of workers and workers in their exposure to various forms of harassment and even less to prove the existence of harassment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This article is inconclusive, vague, subject to different interpretations, and therefore unnecessary because it is simply inexecutible. Well, we're not all naive here together to believe that by installing such an item anything will change. Our experience in the SDP based on over 2,000 calls from workers shows that their problem is not so much that they have warned about violations of their rights in a total of 890 companies but the fact that the competent state authorities, primarily the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Finance, have done absolutely nothing on these issues. Secondly, these changes try to regulate work on Sundays. From one part of the text, it is obvious that the proposer primarily thinks about working on Sundays in trade. However, it should be warned that between 60 and 90000 traders work in Croatia on Sundays. But together with other companies and services Sundays, around 400,000 Croatian workers and workers work. The proposal is essentially inconsistencies because in one section it speaks about work on Sundays in general, and then in one article it is proposed to carry out mandatory inspection controls in shops with over 10 employees and twice a year. Does this mean that, for example, in stores with less than 10 employees, honey and milk flow, i.e. in all other companies that do not belong to the store all in the best order. Perhaps the Law on Work on Trade on Sundays should then be proposed, and trade would then be regulated. We in the SDP think it would be much better to insist on signing... A collective trade contract that would then be applied to the entire branch, and the government if it wanted to have a legal foothold for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the situation in the judiciary does not give much hope that in the foreseeable future anything will change in favour of workers when it comes to judicial protection. The six-month law lays down a deadline for the completion of the working dispute for most workers and workers only leaves the dream to be released. With that in mind, not even an increase in the fines charged through the Criminal Court means anything when more than 50% of the cases go out of date. As nothing seems to be in the establishment of an institute of peace and arbitration. These institutes are only in turns, and for example, they could be avoided by tens of thousands of disputes over Christmases, jubilee awards and so forth. What we think in the SDP is that we can correct the position of workers by strengthening the State Inspectorate. With today's number of 80 labour inspectors, it takes them 20 years to control and tour all employers in the Republic of Croatia. The State Inspectorate will be strengthened most if we employ a sufficient number of labour inspectors. At least 200, according to our estimates. If we give them authority, we educate them and strengthen their internal control. Strengthening the position of labour representatives are improving Croatian workers' decisions, preferring the signing of a national collective contract, border and collective agreements at company level. These are ways to strengthen the position of workers, but also to protect their already established rights. Without this, we can only generally support these amendments to the law as an opportunity to talk in this House about workers and workers, their position and warn the Government that its institutions do not apply and implement the laws in this area as well as from many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86949	Thank you. For the club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86950	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this proposed law, nor will we offer amendments because we do not think there is any possibility for amendments to fix some of the proposed solutions that we consider crucial. I would like to remind myself that since the first reading, this bill has had a strange fate and strange events, because in the first reading, the Government gave a negative opinion, so it withdrew, and after a few days it gave a positive opinion and after the Parliament had released this bill's second reading, the Government is now giving a negative opinion. I have to say, it's quite unusual that coalition partners didn't agree as they agreed for the first reading of the failure and so on and for the second reading and relieved us of these problems that we're in right now. The second reason why we will not support this bill is because this proposed law has no support or opinion, whether positive or negative, or unions, or the Association of Employers, or the Economic Social Council, and when the government comes with its proposals for the law in the field of the Labour Social Corps, then we have always objected to the Government that we have never informed of the views of the social partners, so we must have that same approach when the legislator is anyone other than the Government. The Parliament's first reading was held together by a joint discussion on the Proposal to amend the Labour Act proposed by the Croatian People's Party Club and counterpart Adlesic. Since our bill at the time had a negative view of the government, it was clear that our proposal would not go into second reading, and then the proposer promised that key solutions on collective agreements would be taken over in its draft law until the second reading, i.e. the second reading that was not done, and therefore we cannot give support to this bill. In public, this proposal was presented as a bill that will address the problem of working on Sundays and on national holidays, that is, the days when it is not working. However, I believe that the solutions introduced in the bill do not offer any solution or guarantee that the problem of work will be solved on Sundays not only in trade. Because behind this proposal is trade, not workers, employees of the Republic of Croatia for several reasons. But the question is really why only Sunday's work in trade becomes a matter of public interest not only for political parties, media, churches and church institutions, NGOs when there are approximately 12% of the total number of workers working on Sundays or holidays. Probably because all other activities that have been working on Sundays for 50 years have national collective agreements of activity and branches and this problem is regulated in collective agreements, and trade as the latest activity that started working on Sundays has failed well and in a good way to resolve the issue of work on Sundays. The reasons can be different. The guilty, too, but back to the proposed law. The decision offered by the law is not a way, i.e. in the way in which employers are conditioned that the introduction of work on Sundays can only be introduced if the collective contract lays down the reasons, methods, criteria and conditions. And what's particularly important, what's missing, what's missing, and it's been in the Labour Act, so I don't know when it's been released, and that's that the mandatory content of the collective contract has to be the way and the height of the pay increase for work on Sundays, holidays, or days that don't work. Therefore, if the Labour Act does not oblige the mandatory content of the collective agreement to be a provision which must regulate the increase of wages for work on Sundays and holidays, then normally, during collective negotiations and collective bargaining, most employers will try and avoid such a provision and there will be no such clause and there will be no pay for work on Sundays. Another problem is that in the Labour Act was then dropped, we proposed to introduce this proposal, it is not, it is the employer's obligation to keep track of the presence of workers at work. Why does she matter? For two reasons. First, an inspector who comes to the control of any employer if there is no record of the presence at work of the fact when someone has worked can only determine if he arrives at that time on a Sunday, on a holiday or on an unworkable day. But if there is a record of his presence at work he can also determine Wednesday through a record of who worked on Sunday. And the second reason is that the record of the presence at work is mostly the only evidence in the case of a dispute between workers and employers on the time spent at work. And when she doesn't have that proof, it only comes down to witness statements. And that's where the most frequent lawsuits against employers fall, because those who might testify who is when, where and how long he worked, and remain employed by employers normally to avoid such testimony and the lawsuits most often precisely because of the lack of that record fall under the judicial procedure. The law also provides for a provision that prohibits parents of up to 3 years of age, single parents of up to 6 years of age, and parents of a child with severe developmental disturbances, i.e. the safeguard clause is that they should not work on Sundays or holidays unless they explicitly sign a declaration that they wish to work. This solution should certainly support union positions, union opinion, and in particular the opinion of the Committee on Gender Equality of this Parliament whether this measure of positive discrimination is indeed in the role of protecting these parents or could be converted into the opposite of the intention for employers to avoid such a category of employment, precisely because of the provision that they cannot force them to do so. I do not claim either and the other, and I believe that this issue, or the Committee on Gender Equality of the Assembly, would indeed have to give its opinion before it is offered for a vote, by anyone who comes. The fourth group of reasons is being punished. And always so far in our working legislation, even in this proposal, the Proposer offers penalties of an absolute amount, 20 to 50, 30 to 60 thousand kuna, which we consider not to be good, and most EU member states in this part of the work-social legislation attach the amount of punishment to the number of workers that the employer has forced into breach or committed a violation for them. And it doesn't matter if the employer forced one or six workers or sixty on Sundays. And for this reason, penalties are predicted the amount of kuna or euro per number of workers committed by the employer. So if 100 people were forced to work on Sundays, and they weren't meant to do so by law and collective agreement, then the amount of punishment is multiplied by 100. If that's 50 over 50. If it's 1 by 1. And fairer punishment, sanctioning employers and the amount of punishment that would depend on it is one way to get the meaning and purpose of preventing, or preventive action, because the amount of profits made by extra employers depends exactly on how crazy he has coerced himself into something. I further recall that this Chamber refused to intervene in the Penal Code on two occasions, which would clearly, as was stated in the previous term, so unfortunately by the Constitutional Court's decision that non-compliance and non-compliance with the collective contract and respect for collective contract labour rights is a criminal offence. And that is why the data of the State Attorney's Office on the number of criminal proceedings and the pronunciation of measures or sanctions as committing a criminal offence in the area of non-compliance with collective agreements and the Labour Act in Croatia is embarrassingly low, and there are almost no and the number of cases is far, far below what is known to be a violation of the rights of employees in general exist in Croatia. For years it has been proposed in the Croatian Parliament, the last 15 years at least 15 times the introduction of special or specialized working courts. And that's what they always refused in Parliament. And that's why we have a situation where courts, regular courts, are making judgments that become completely pointless because they can no longer be implemented, justice that is four years late is not justice, and normally we just have one of those kinds of employers when they know they're protected from prosecution. And finally, just one comment, the government's opinion adopted the bill. The government says more extensive amendments and harmonisation of the legal institutes of the Labour Act with the relevant European Union directives need to be implemented. I want to believe that in this deep analysis what they call them, the government has established a failure that has been happening all this time, which is that since the 44th Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which Croatia has nostrupted or taken over, and the former state is not the 154 Convention on the Promotion of Corporate Negotiation. Because it's perfectly normal that this Convention in the former state wasn't ratified because it didn't know collective agreements, and without ratification of that Convention, Croatian labour legislation has one let's call it a "grey" not a "black" hole. And that is why I want to believe that this Convention in Parliament will be ratified as soon as possible because it is the very convention that obliges social partners especially the state authority to take a number of measures and procedures to promote collective bargaining. And I would like to point out that during the screening of Croatian labour legislation, the 5th point of the complaint to Croatia was that it was not doing enough to promote border collective bargaining. This word "granese" is extremely important and important, extremely important because it prevents employers who hunt in the dim from creating their so-called "majority." The yellow unions, the factory unions, that they make collective agreements with them that are never in the interests of workers, get formal coverage that there is a collective contract and actually don't solve the essence of the problem. And for this reason, I would like to believe that these remarks of the European Union given, where it is also seen that the Croatian legal system of labour law suffers from disease of non-promotion of collective agreements, branches and activities, will be resolved and ratified by Convention No 154 but also by a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act that will be agreed by the Economic and Social Council and come before the Assembly. These are therefore reasons and arguments why the Croatian People's Party club will neither try to fix this proposed law nor vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86951	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86952	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague named Lesar. The first incorrect allegation was that when the debate was last discussed, it was not only the HSLS and the HNS but was one third proposal, the best truth, the HSP. And I also have to say that I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that, through misdeeds, anything can be solved because of the fact that 60% of all criminal charges are out of date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86953	Thank you. House Vice President, Proposer Đurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86954	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will just briefly respond to some and turn my colleagues to read the bill and compare them to the existing one to make it easier to discuss, and of course I have no objection to some deciding to run away from hot topics because it is much easier to run the campaign by yelling out the rule of law, there are not enough inspectors but to decide to bite into hard nuts and fix the law. It's a political responsibility for each and every one of us. I accepted it, I offered solutions and an invitation to fix it if you wanted anything. What matters to me as the legislator of this law, and I hope to the government who will also read your remarks before the second law, that we have all agreed on an assessment of the situation, that we agree that major overall changes should be made. But running away from the topic, it's been a year waiting to come to the agenda. By transferring this point for an election campaign or by transferring from one government to another, it leaves a question of responsibility to ourselves. Everyone with their faces will come out in front of their constituents. To talk about the need for changes and other laws, I agree. There's always one law behind it and other laws, but it's got to start somewhere. Otherwise, the debate took place as a consequence of the open phones and statistics that we then received and the round table on which both trade unions and employers participated. I agree that this is informal, but we have heard from them these very opinions that are included in the law. Warning of law articles to be amended and you here have a significant increase in all penalties for non-compliance with workers' rights. It also allows employers not to be all in the same basket. That there are employers who respect laws and who have no objection to increasing penalties and even this almost drastically to those who do not pay workers not only for Sundays and holidays but also others or object that it is twice a year little to visit companies that have not had any supervision at all. Well, we can ask them to come around once a week if we want to talk that way. And if it hasn't been done so far, and we're asking to be done twice a year now, so I don't know if we can say that there aren't any important changes here, but that's, of course, the question of your responsibility. I remind you of Article 3 which speaks of Article 115 and a new item that says: "Secretting the safeguard measure of closing the business space for up to 30 days to the employer is not a valid reason to fire workers". So for the possibility of closing certain objects due to non-compliance with the law, even to mandatory annual supervision, this time they are trades because they have seen the greatest non-compliance of the law. Twice a year, and so far there have been no fines, or penalties that change from 10 to 30 grand or 25 to 40, and so on. So I ask you here are colleagues and colleagues, in the debate it would not be bad to read and the bill, of course everyone bears responsibility for his hand as usual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86955	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86956	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With these proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act, Ms Đurđe Adlešić, we note that the aim was to improve the protection of labour rights related to work on Sundays, cancel work contracts, harassment at work, or protect the dignity of workers in communicating with their superiors, i.e. employers and more significant roles of inspection services and supervision of the application of the Labour Act. The HSS representative club will support the proposed changes and additions, taking into account the full range of freedoms of the week and the far-reaching consequences of jeopardising these values towards and protecting workers' dignity through the proposed changes. We are surprised even now as before when we have proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act, by the government's view that, in the final proposal for the law of the Proposer Đurđe Adlešić, more appropriate debate after the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivers the full text of the draft Labour Act to the Croatian Parliament. In fact, after surveying the citizens who had had enough, in which they were even more than 86%, they said they were supportive, for example. The Law on Trade, which limited the work on Sundays, and the Constitutional Court abolished the law, the government promised the trade unions and the Bishop's Conference after the adoption of a document of Sundays for man, that within 6 months, it would propose a law guaranteeing Sundays as a day of weekly rest to all those for whom there is no need for work. To date, this promise, but also as most of the other promises made by the government, has not already been carried out, and has now expanded the resolution of some of the burning issues from the daily paper related to this Labour Act. I want to repeat our views on this occasion and on behalf of the HSS Club on this issue. The HSS believes, I will not elaborate everything proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law, but only to commit to Sunday's work, Sunday as a week's vacation day that needs to be particularly favored, not to say institutionalise. It is clear to us that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the inalienable right of every employee on a week's vacation, we understand that Sunday's Labour Act determines as the day of the week's rest, and Sunday's work is only allowed if the necessary work is in place. We remind you, Croatia has concluded a contract with the Holy Table according to which Sunday is an unworkable day. The international contract is even above domestic law, but despite all this Sundays more and more work is being done, and especially are workers who work on a very weekly basis, and if there is absolutely no direct need for this work. It is obvious that our society respects not only the law, but also the value of a week off. The causes and direct consequences of non-compliance with Sunday are evident in the harsh violation of basic labour and human rights as well as the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia. The direct consequences of not respecting the value of the week are to deny the right to a week's vacation, an inaccessible number of overtime hours, which threatens the possibility of employment in any case by a large number of unemployed. Just for example. There are so many overtime hours in the store each year that more than 12,000 jobs can be opened. Disrespecting the right to freedom Sunday and seeking to use Sunday for commercial purposes suggests that Croatian society, at the centre of its profession, does not put man and his freedom, but exclusively material gain. Man is not seen as a person, but as a wheel in the process of weekly production and weekly consumption. The consciousness of man seeks to narrow down exclusively to economic interests. Man is denied time and space for other content, such as culture and family. The following European tradition of the 106 Convention on weekly rest, which Croatia is also signatories, is said to be given a period of weekly rest when it is possible to approve all interested persons in each company at the same time. The period of the weekly vacation must be determined when possible to coincide with the day of the week which according to the traditions and customs of the country and the district defined as the day of rest. In Croatia is the tradition of Sunday, Sunday is the day of the week's vacation. It was also during the previous regime that did not have much of an understanding for the religious needs of citizens. Today, the need for a workless Sunday is no longer motivated by religious motives. The need for a working week stems from anthropological, cultural, social and economic significance. Humans are not only biological but also cultural, and as such they need to use their vacation not only for the restoration of physical but spiritual strengths, for they are inseparable in every creative activity. The vacation frees up space for life in the second dimension of man who exceeds interest and benefit. Man is a community being, man is a worker, his productivity cannot be motivated solely by the fact that he is employed. Man must live all the dimensions of his humanity. In order for this to be possible, it is necessary to ensure a week's rest for the whole society. Traditionally, both in Europe and Croatia it is Sunday. It is saddened that we are not paying more attention to this problem, but unfortunately we are turning to finding new solutions that would alleviate this problem. The fact that on Sundays, holidays and other unworkable days prescribed by law for healthcare, police work, military work, firemen, customs, workers of Croatian roads, veterinarians and others, but this work is necessary and particularly valorised to the satisfaction of employees mostly by collective agreements in which the union plays an important role, therefore this proposal changes and complements the Law is necessary because it solves this problem in a more high quality way on Sundays, protects the dignity of workers and potentifies the role of inspection services. Croatia is a tourist country and in order to please tourists should enable them to spend their money adequately and stay in our country, but to their satisfaction, but also to the satisfaction of Croatian citizens. So I repeat once again, we will support this proposal with the retention of our views on the problem referred to before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86957	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86958	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I see my colleague Pero Kovacevic looks forward to what I say. We'll support this bill so it doesn't be in doubt. But the joke aside, I think that what we can really be satisfied with at the HSLS club, which is that we have managed to sensitize the public and that indeed this small-scale policy is doing some shifts and the fact that this is a subject that can't be crossed and that is present in our media, and even in the political debates themselves, it shows that politics is actually doing its part of the job. What's less important here when last time there were three bill proposals that were prescribed from whom as if they were actually some scientific truths to be revealed. These are actually general places and certainly the same thing should be thought of, or very similar, or even identical. And that's why I'm saying you shouldn't be very unhappy if someone does not know what they insist on being the first or best or actually the only one, having a monopoly on this subject. Luckily, there isn't. This is really the theme of all topics. And it's just good that we're finally working, in our political culture, to give the place that belongs to him. Weber wrote a book 150 years ago that shows all the value of the work. And it was compared to work that he performed a whole series of these certain ethical categories, or the whole system of values. I don't know, work is not treated equally by Protestants or Catholics or by orthodoxes, or nebudists. And it's from the fact that they don't relate equally to different life philosophies. It would be good if in Croatia we really had a Weberian attitude towards work. And that except for the fact that the work is a constitutional category, that then we try with our legislation just to do so that those who work are both right and paid. All the problems that arise here that are certainly normal and who are also asking us a big question about how to balance this relationship between work and capital? Not to stand side by side or side by side. Then how exactly do you find that necessary balance? And I think that this bill is on one good track to admit in some way one sad fact that in Croatia there are over 300 thousand people who are unemployed. And that certainly in politics must be a fundamental problem how these people get a job as soon as possible. Not only are there 300 and some thousand unemployed but there is certainly a large number that are not adequately paid, that is the new problem. Or there are those who work for a few months, so they don't get paid. And when you find yourself with some particular problems just like this unfortunate work on Sundays, then you really need to see what certain measures would be that, right here right now, we don't have to justify ourselves, certainly every man, every worker just deserves to have one day off. But we're also the fact that the paradigm has changed, that... becomes dominant in Croatia, that we are a couple of excellents and a tourist country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that simply some logic of capital sometimes dictates some rules of conduct all of which and that you will not escape. Not what you'd like but simply it's the rhythm of life that let's be honest and large and our people respect as well. But when that happens, there really is a whole series of solutions that could sort of balance it out. In the first row, the one who doesn't want to work for a variety of reasons doesn't get sanctioned. So the employer, that the employer can't behave just because it's a big offer, so that he simply punishes those people and says, listen, you don't want to work, but you will be, I don't know you'll get fired. That's what this law is trying to regulate. And those who work, for this work must be not well paid, but must be paid extra. And precisely, if we demand that this work be paid extra, precisely because it represents a certain, not only sure effort and the use of free time and energy and it's about the day when it shouldn't be done, it means holiday, Sunday, Saint, that you just force the employer to pay extra for it to give him a lot of thought about whether it's going to be worth it. What has also proved to be precisely this petty policy of these small steps has actually proved that our penalties, sanctions, are not satisfactory or that they are not sanctions, but that they really represent one actually act stimulating. Someone was and said that it was this fact that somewhere, that the amount of this unpaid overtime is such that we could open 90,000 new jobs. It's really like this when you think about it, you think it's almost impossible, that it's this little bit of a figure that belongs to this science fiction, and it's actually showing what the potentials really are, the resources that could give you exactly the fact that this unemployment problem that's really one of the biggest problems in Croatia, that we're solving it in an elegant way. But then there should be good inspection services. It's amazing that these inspection services don't work on Sundays, no. They should be controlled, they should be in the function of this sanctions, and they actually allow themselves to not work that day and actually allow employers to behave the way they behave. My colleague Adlesic and my little one, I think, and some others at the invitation of the Union have just shown that we have been sensitised for this problem working on Sunday and between them and talking to those people who work there. A large number of people, a really large number of people want to work just under this... to make their work truly good, extra paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, we have to really respect in the future, times are hard, money never enough. But we also need to understand that even workers are not one homogeneous group. You really have workers who have big kids, you have workers who don't have kids. You have exactly which also, there are no obstacles that they don't do. And I'm just saying under these conditions that for this work to be adequately paid. And especially for those days when it's usually not done or when I tell you some holidays, Sundays and stuff. Also, we had those two very interesting actions that were somehow the basis for us to continue, with this activity, that people actually appear. And we're showing exactly the right state in our society. And it's actually that a large number of people are scared, that they're actually afraid or afraid that the state isn't protecting him in the way that it should be protected. I don't know, from those workers in the textile industry in Osijek, a whole bunch of others. And when it is this desire to remain anonymous and this is exactly the opportunity to use these political activities, these open phones or "Paid work on Sundays", we are registered and faced with this very dark side of this capital in Croatia. Unfortunately, there are also a lot of these foreign companies that come in and then behave in Croatia in a way that, as they say, in Italy would never occur to them. Or if they fell, then they would certainly feel one of those behaviors that is contrary to these very positive laws. Unfortunately, it is in Croatia, it is allowed. And for example, we have really allowed ourselves to turn into a semi-colonial land where indeed someone will be able to behave differently than he does in his home country. Also we are here every time, there is a consensus of parliamentary parties that we are against corruption. But when you need to... with some concrete measures and stop at the end of this corruption, then about with whistles and we don't exactly, according to them, we don't have the same attitude and exactly instead of following these solutions from countries that have passed this, this story and where some of these things have become legitimate and where they have reached this legitimate status, these are the things that we have to also build into our legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not because it wants not to know, or the European Union, but because it is also the facts that exist that people who are from the system, or who point out some irregularities within that system, are not sanctioned, but that in some way the state, the laws, give them, protect them, and enable them to really talk about these irregularities publicly and that it is precisely those who do so that they are sanctioned in the right way. I say, therefore, I would really ask that most, that parliamentary parties and here to try to rise from these parties' animosities may be too difficult to say, but in some ways, it's a certain degree of dissension, so that we really support this proposal of this law because we think it's good, that in the right way it determines this relationship between capital and work, in some way it really acknowledges this fact that a large number of citizens in Croatia are not working, that the problems of working on Sundays, the holidays we can't only come to work in trades, in this activity, but that there really is a whole series of other activities where it's also working, where it's all normal, to see how we can fight... and what happens to us in front of this Easter and Christmas and New Year's holidays when it really shows that in this society, this one American lifestyle prevailed and when actually all values are sort of being funded and simply there are no more values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's a fact, and that's what we need to deal with, and now we need to find, not just a diagnosis, but a cure to help. I think this bill of law, colleague Adlesic, is actually a good first step which right now, and there is no pretentious fact that the Law on working as a whole solves but this moment shows burning problems, the problem of mobbing, the problem of working on Sundays, the problem of whistles seems to me in the best possible way. And this very fact that service inspections must be strengthened, that they must be allowed to be adequate for the number of inspectors precisely the problems facing our society. Once again, the HSLS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86959	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86960	I want to correct my colleague Kramaric's allegations that this bill solves Sunday's payment. This is not true because it is not intervened in the existing Article 196. The labour law which speaks of the mandatory content of the collective agreement and Article 2 of this proposed law intervenes only in Article 46 and the provision that the collective agreement must establish an increase in wages for work on Sundays, holidays and non-working days, and that is the essence of the problem. This bill neither raises wages for Sunday's work nor reckoning, nor payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86961	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86962	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I want to make it clear first that every work must be paid. I want to express my position that every overtime must be paid. I also want to say that Sunday work must also be particularly valuable and that each worker must be particularly protected. God is my witness that I think so. If I really did, I don't need to call on anyone right now, testifying that I didn't or that the IDS Club didn't want to raise a hand to amend the Labour Act proposed by the 3rd January administration, and thus, in some way, significantly restricting workers' rights in favour of capital. However, it should also come from one detail. Croatia is a country of important regional differences. It is not possible for the same norms when it comes to trade to solve relations in Međimurje, Posavina, Slavonia, Zagorje, Lici on the one hand and now Istria, Dubrovnik, Dalmatia, Opatija, islands on the other. In one Međimurje, for example, trade really shouldn't work on Sundays. He probably doesn't have to work in Lika, he doesn't have to work in Zagorje, in the vast majority of Slavonia. But in one Poreč, in one Opatija, in Hvar, in Crikvenica, in Zadar, in Dubrovnik, Sibenik, this store simply has to work. Mr. Cacchi used to call for a concord that, or where he really stands, on an unworkable Sunday with the Holy chair, but worked either by the Church or not, she will get out of the state budget of her 350 million kuna. And what's that little merchant gonna get? He won't get anything except from year to year, all new and new charges. Honestly, once again, I really think the worker must be paid, but I will take this opportunity when it comes to trade, especially the small one, to argue that 50% of the small merchants today are in a worse position or the same as those workers who work with them. The worker is perfectly logical if he doesn't get paid for two months he'll leave, look for another job, but that little craftsman matches his entire assets as he says to the inherited house and property and apartment, etc., and it simply needs to be understood. People have nowhere else to go. They're opening up some little shops and 2/3 of them doing it there, living in some virtual world that's gonna get better tomorrow. But he won't. It won't be better for those little merchants. I also spoke at the 5th meeting of the merchants of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. In 2000 large trade chains held 25% of Croatian markets and today these ten large chains hold over 60% of the Croatian market or Croatian trade. Everyone else, that little poor thing nobody cares about, and it's about 25 grand of twists of grips in these not-full 30%. In three years, it won't be 30% anymore. That'll be 20% of the market. And now I really want to scream. You should take care of the worker, you should absolutely take care of the worker, but you should also take care of that little craftsman, that little merchant, because if he fails, he will also fail through him into thousands and thousands of other jobs that he is around or on to himself. We just don't have that filling. We get between 13 and 15 thousand kunas every 5th of a month, which is much less than most union leaders get, so there's no confusion. On the other hand, the craftsman must first pay the goods, VAT, taxes, customs, must pay the salaries, contributions, rent, directorship, and then he is up to it. And it's really time to open up and through this law debate and their position. Not once I said everyone in this country got something, and the workers of the flats those before they got those apartments in '90. And the peasants get land except Istrian, the Istrians don't get it. Both the socialist directors and the former government's constituents got shares, I don't know they became tycoons, and these little craftsmen just can't get to that business space where they work, and without that, if they don't come, they're just gonna fail. I'm upriori against the ban on Sundays. Of course, if you're working, then get paid. Clearly, if you have small children, agree with the employer although I personally think that Croatia had an appropriate law that the third-member administration proposed when the child allowed them to work and the large one to defend. Which was then clearly declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. Such a model, if I am not mistaken, has something like Slovenia today. For example, I don't know these big chains that I don't now count them yes, they sued or sought protection at the Constitutional Court, and now we see how this is handled in some other countries. That's, that's something I'd say and part of our Claire just doesn't want to see. God forbid everyone can be home. But it's just as impossible. Some wonder if they, I don't know, the church may have acted that way because Mr. Todorovic's son is in Caritas. And that's when I'm talking about Agrocoor now, the fastest growing chain that holds almost 30% of the Croatian market itself. I'm saying that this law wouldn't have killed just merchants. They'd suffer a newspaper, too. We have 54 weeks plus 15 holidays and those connected days, and that's a de facto 3 months of missing, say, certain sheets. There's no branch that gentlemen can handle. What about the caterers, then? Then what about the cops? Then what about the doctors? What about the firemen? What about those people who have to meet the deadlines that build the highway from Zagreb to Rijeka? Or I don't know from Split down to Dubrovnik. And it's better to keep quiet about a farmer because he doesn't have a Friday or a saint. So pay the people, let the people work. We're not threatening any punishments. Let's let the people work. Let's get them to work. This is where collective contracts are mentioned. He should really sign with the Union. But what if, for example, some don't want to join the Union now? Should the contract then be signed with someone, I don't know, how I'm going to call them the authorities of the state or the administration that would care the same way about the workers as the union. With trade unions after selling St. Mark's Square, this sacred place of the Croatian trade union and parliamentary movement today is incomparably less than I believed yesterday. We know that this union movement is also in crisis. That's not good. They need help. Maybe this law goes for it. Let's let go of the material position they're in. It is also clear that there is a need to change the way membership is chosen, and then, as well as the church in the budget, it could be money and with a view to strengthening that union movement again. When I say the way I choose, I don't think the state should have any influence on the Union, just the opposite. But the union scene is not only divided. It has largely compromised the movement through trips to the political sphere. If union champions, all the lists end up in politics, that's bad. Whether individuals end up in IDS, SDP, HNS, I don't know HSU, HDZ, HSLS or I don't know which party. Can someone make me conclude a collective contract with the Union? Do, I don't know, workers have to pay membership fees if they don't want to, and so on? The fines in this bill are dragonic. When I talk about this law, I talk first of all about those small shops that have one, two, three, four employees where owners are often in a worse position than workers because this owner has no Saturdays, no Sundays, no holidays, and he works because it is a clear workplace and he has to take care of it. Today we can't ask that big as was that bill on Sundays don't work, kid, that I can work because we have the Constitutional Court's decision. But we can ask that some Croatian goods be represented in these supermarkets and that the small stampede of these large chains be limited because if we get one big one in Pula, Zadar, Sibenik, Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Split, 25 or 50 small shops overnight. Maybe that's the rule of supply and demand, I don't know, but I want to raise my voice to the position of these small merchants, small craftsmen and ordinary workers who are employed, I don't know, in any other social activity. Otherwise, I don't think the state can just prescribe more penalties than I'm supposed to. The budget shall not be charged with fines. The budget has to be charged with traffic. The state cannot only look for new and new commitments but it should also be a guarantee of the survival of these small entrepreneurs and thus also preserve those jobs. If we don't let people work, there won't be any jobs. We'll be able to protect whatever we want, but we won't have any more simple things to protect. But no matter what, I think this is a good basis proposed by Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. This does not defend work on Sundays and holidays especially in the season it is inadmissible that trades do not work, and we want, I don't know, a larger foreign exchange inflow. So we protect the worker. Let's especially let the little craftsman work. Everything else is a common demagogy. Did this come from policy lines or did it come from unions or churches? You live on money, and you can only come to money clearly if you sell goods or service or work. If you re-charge what's more common in this country, and everything else is first-class demagogy in my opinion. More specifically, try to like this or that. Lives say sailors don't have to, but they have to sail. That's how it's clear and it's gotta be done. I absolutely support the debate on this law, but banning Sundays just doesn't make sense. Position, and I'll say that the church is sometimes hypocritical. They're for selling candles, flowers, I don't know what's not left. They are thinking that in one of the towers here at Zagreb, in Zagreb Cathedral, in Zagreb's capital, Croatian Kaptol will open the inn, the inn and others defend their work on Sundays. And it's just not fair or not, it's not right. ... It's not right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can scream from the right at whatever you want, but it's just like that. And fortunately, the Capitol gave it up. E...... Yeah, they gave up and God forbid they didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, God forbid they didn't because then that would be blasphemy. Finally, why don't we ask ourselves how many of these 25 grand indivisible little merchants are? What's the indifference at the store of this 12 billion? Over six billion kunas. And now we think that in due course we're going to increase the number of employees right at the store. Those who so judge and who think so even though I will once again say that Croatia is a country of important regional differences and that it is not possible to regulate trade in one Međimurje, Pavina, in one Opatija, Dubrovnik, Istria or I don't know where, or where else... And in the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. How, how is the same regulated European practice? There are no examples here again. These proposals may be what we have, which are heard in public, are the closest in practice in Italy, Greece, Finland, where Sunday trade is also allowed only in summer and December. On the contrary, countries such as one Ireland, Latvia, Slovakia, Sweden, Hungary that do not have any of these restrictions. Just like Slovenia no longer does. In trade, we need to know for 37% of the total number of employees, and 11% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia is achieved. Most merchants obviously don't want restrictions as clearly as possible, but what needs to be regulated is pay gentlemen, it's pay contributions, it's regulation of minimum wages, it's a problem in this country of non-functioning of working courts etc. etc. How many households buy on Sundays in the countries of the region? In Croatia around 94%, in Bosnia 100%, in Serbia 100%, in Bulgaria 94%, in Romania 95%, in Hungary 69%, in the Czech Republic again Catholic country 83, in Slovakia 91, in Poland, from which the Great Pope John Paul II 85%, in Russia well 100%, etc. etc. So, for the end someone liked it or not, Croatia is a country of regional differences, large and I think such sensitive issues are not possible in the same way to regulate for the ends along the sea and the interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86963	Thank you. In 10.50, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Now we have eight corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86964	I can generally agree with everything that my colleague Cain said, but here's the deal, and that's exactly why I have to correct the inaccuracies that got lost to him. Namely, it is not true that counterpart Cain argued that the third-country administration has reduced workers' rights in favour of capital. First of all, the Labour Act has finally reached the fundamental part of the rights which, while further ensuring that collective agreements increase those rights. For example, the pay-out deadline, so we know that workers' salaries were a question of whether they were prestigious and powerful, not some kind of obligation. Therefore, a payment deadline has been set. Then, the required form, the written form for the contract on work, the billing of salaries became an executive document, the non-payment of salaries became a criminal offence, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86965	That's quite a gentle, gentle correction of an incorrect quote. But is it allowed to correct an incorrect assumption if he who is being corrected is sitting next to you? The second correction by the respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86966	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Who will correct 20 minutes as said in two minutes that's impossible but I'll hurry. My colleague Cain, is an incorrect comparison of the work of the employer and the church. The church has its own special e-mail that you and your likes don't understand. The sale of candles and flowers on Sundays is in the sending of the church to Croatia. This would be the first, and second, those mothers who have thighs and work elegantly on Saturdays, close their thighs in Opatija at 12 o'clock, and use those mothers who do not have a match for the husband of Damir Kajin and what is the working time in Jakovčić's village where the church material was repaired and restored to a complete church village.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86967	Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go. Don't wave, so wait! Here you go. [[Lino knows very well, so he'll make this lie right!]] Order! Order! Order! [[If you went to church, you wouldn't lie!]] Here's your colleague, Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86968	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm correcting an esteemed representative in the part where he talks about caring for craftsmen. I think it goes to the level of political marketing and the de-populism mode – when one is spoken and the other is thought. Why? You see, a classic example. You held two days ago an economic forum in Pula where you presented 300 people, a regional and operational programme of the Istrian County. So in this integrated, strategic document for the period from 2006 to 2010, in five years, you didn't even mention the craftsmen in that document, and we in Istria have 20,000 with their families. So, 40,000 and you in them in a strategic plan for the development of the Istrian County have not devoted a single word. That's me, sir, Your Honor, you have to admit to me that this is a classic example of political marketing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86969	See, We have helped them all, We have created them all, We have created them, We have created 20 thousand craftsmen. E!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86970	The next correction is the respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86971	Mr. President, dear colleagues. I am correcting the assumption that my colleague Cain told me that he was a priori against the ban on work on Sundays or rather, he further specified that he could not ask that because of the Constitutional Court's decision a large ban on Sundays, and that small entrepreneurs in trade were allowed to do so. I am correcting that part, and I would like to stress first that according to our law in Article 46, we are talking about the right to a week's rest of workers on Sunday and that only because of the necessary work, it can be allowed to work on that worker on Sunday as well. What's wrong with the law is a legal void. To establish the conditions, criteria and methods and results where work is needed and what right the worker has to seek to work at a time of excessive work or exceptionally which requests may be further released or even refused under such working conditions. But that's another topic, I'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86972	The next correction is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86973	Mr. President, I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that the union movement is in crisis and they need help. The union is the kind of members they support because they pay monthly membership fees, and the infection by leadership is not just a union characteristic. The unions have to help themselves, they can. Because, by my knowledge, they have more internal energy than any other social partner. And secondly, I don't know if counterpart Cain has read the bill well, but there is no proposal in law for a general ban on work on Sundays as he said in his presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86974	Next correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86975	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to fix one ugly... I have to repeat the story. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So I am correcting an incorrect insinuation, an incorrect assumption that Todorovic's son via Caritas influences the church's position not to work on Sundays. Which is not true. Even before his engagement in Caritas, the church asked that everything he didn't have to do on Sundays not work. And there's no reason for him to work. 'Cause let's look at it, young mother or I don't know which one, working Sundays gets a free Tuesday when her whole family's out of the house. So he can only sit at home and kick, right? And what is very pronounced with Mr. Cain is an amazing hatred for the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86976	No, no, no, that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86977	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86978	We'll ask for a break of 10 minutes now. Protect me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86979	Please, I couldn't hear. What's the matter? What's the matter? Wait, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86980	So you're listening...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86981	Well, I can't when you're making noise, when.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86982	How could you not hear? Interesting you always hear what I say in the back row.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86983	I couldn't. I just got two vice presidents to thank me for, we can't hear. ... Let's move on. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would correct the inaccuracy of colleagues when he said that some cities in Croatia should not work, and some should work on Sundays because of tourism. Well, I've been lucky in my life to stay in all the resorts of Europe, maybe the world, but on Sunday mornings, I haven't seen anything done. In one Spain, one Portugal or Brazil. So it's no excuse to work in central Croatia not to work, and it's as if shops should work at sea, so tourists buy us Sundays and cook in their rooms, is that it. On Sundays, I think we should devote other things to Sundays. And what you said about the hypocrisy of the Church is very ugly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86985	Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Topic, last correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86986	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed colleague Cain has basically corrected himself, but that's usually the case with Mr. Cain, it's an important effect and the contents aren't so important, or facts. So he mentioned, I think it should be noted that under this institute the correction of the false assumption that Kaptol, or the Church, wants to open the cathedral tower, then a few minutes later in its presentation talks of which she gave up after all. I think if it was, and it was, an individual, or one opinion from a man who had a conviction within the church itself, and the official Church has nothing to do with it, and it's distanced itself from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86987	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Peace please there and here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86988	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I have the impression that in this House, the worst Catholics are the ones most likely to be called from those ranks to the Church. And it's always like that, yeah. The tragedy of this moment and this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86989	What's that now? Okay. Corrections to religious beliefs. Dear Representative, club HSP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86990	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues here you see a debate about the Labour Act, there's no one from the government, which doesn't surprise us. Namely, the views of the Croatian Party club are rights when it comes to the position of workers, and our workers have been disproved. And how are they disfigured? They were disproved by the adoption of a valid Labour Act when it is under the cover of harmonising our legislation with the legal gains of the European Union, the Croatian worker has been further disproved. And we haven't changed that position, and unfortunately it's getting worse every day. What happened? These laws reduce the rights of workers in Croatia, as well as the mechanisms introduced in terms of protecting workers' rights that they are such that they have no results at all. Because the fact that from the part that the State Inspectorate filed in violation of workers' rights by the employer, it is defeating that 60% of the criminal charges go out of date. Therefore, we cannot address the issue of worker protection if we are to base everything on a misdemeanour procedure. Because it's obvious what the situation is. But there needs to be another additional fact that speaks about why workers are anonymously reporting. Because most people have a contract for a certain time. If the worker reports an inspection to report a violation of his rights whether they are legal, whether according to a collective contract, which he can expect and what was generally going to get as regular as an extraordinary resignation. Here is your legal protection and today's position as a Croatian worker. And in order for us to be responsible for the Croatian worker let's take a look here we parliamentary representatives how many of us here own that personally some company, company of the merchant or his family members. And let's see if these companies, these companies where we are colleagues here, are the owners of whether they're being violated. And they're breaking. I call on the press to investigate which of the parliamentary representatives and members of their family has companies and how they treat workers. It's not just for the ruling, it's for the opposition. We get data at the HSP club all the time. Well, then let's first settle that question, then the Croatian worker will believe us, then he'll just believe us. How do workers register in terms of payment of contributions for both health and pension? They're reporting to the lowest. And it logs in and where the owners are close to us here. And then what do you expect from this? What a Croatian worker can expect from this is to call the Parliament when MPs who need to fight for the rights of workers do not do so in their company, so set an example and then speak further. That's what this is really about, and now we're going to discuss who's more concerned about this, who's taking care of it. The position of the Croatian party club is right about working on Sundays clearly, we haven't changed it. Trade chains that don't work in Austria where they came from, in Germany and elsewhere, why would they work here. So the problem with this law that we don't accept, we don't accept that part of the liberalisation of work on Sundays, because, in fact, this provision without the Labour Law, that of our bill that we have proposed, is also about determining working hours like Austria has commercial ones, that where the exception work is no rule on Sundays, this law can, unfortunately, through collective agreements, make everything else possible to work on Sundays a rule of no exception. That's the whole problem. If we had this law today to pass that law of ours on determining working time, it means that on Sundays I can only do what is necessary, then we would immediately support this law if it were in the package. So if these provisions were to apply only to that part, and so are those people who need to work hard on Sundays, we know who they are, and their rights are being violated, and then these provisions would be good in terms of protection. But let's be aware and realistic, if 60% goes into obscenity of the criminal charges filed, misdemeanor requests to initiate a misdemeanor procedure by the inspector, if most of them are afraid or not to report themselves because they'll be in a position to get fired as many orders as possible, which is an extraordinary protection. Therefore, we have these solutions that are in that if this were our condition, we would again minimally improve this part and the position of the workers. In fact, it must go to those variants to give full powers to inspectors in terms of the protection of workers and so that their solutions have executive power. So their solutions have the executive power in terms of those who are workers' rights as such denied whether they did not get paid night work, did not get overtime and that part. It's the only solution in this part where we have a system like this that isn't essentially a system because 60% of the misdemeanor reports go out of date, and what's being processed is that our laws are the kind of nature to give notices or reproof, you understand. Look, it's a shame there's no representative of the state inspectorate here to show you what he is like, Mr. Tadic, who leads that part, to show you what the situation is and what the misdemeanor procedure is and what doesn't come into the age-old stage. So we must have such solutions that will allow inspectors to protect workers' rights. And now we're coming to that part of our distinguished colleague Adlesic said about whistles. We've been pushing it for years and every time it's said, once said it's not the subject of that law says the minister of justice and the former and present, says it will be in the penitentiary. Then when the Penal Code comes, we suggest, it's not exactly that time, and then we fight corruption. It's very interesting what this fight against corruption is like. It's a very interesting fight against corruption. If we want to fight corruption, let us consider large companies’ public systems, i.e. companies. Here I have, come to our club, people write anonymously, they can't publicly, which happens where, they'd like to tell me everywhere and testify provided we have protection of what you're proposing to protect whistlers. Why won't you do it? I'm asking the government again. Why don't you want to do it? When the debate was over this strategy, when it was all about the debate, the fight against corruption, then some HDZ colleagues said, so that's okay with what you're proposing. Well, we know it's okay, but the problem is that the government doesn't want it to become a legal provision. That's the problem. Shall we fight corruption? If we want to, let's take the whistles. Shall we fight for a better legal position and protection of workers? Let's go. Look, you know what the problem of this provision is about dignity. First we must restore dignity to the Croatian worker. That's the problem. The Croatian worker is down. Let's give him back his dignity and then protect him. Let's give him back his dignity, then we'll be able to protect his rights. We've lost 400 grand in the conversion and privatisation that she was. What is the situation with workers who have to work all day for 1.700,00 kuna? What's the fund-raiser's time? What's the trust fund in the chain of commerce? Go to the shopping chains and you'll hear, ask people how long you've worked, says 356 hours. You get paid, he says he's not. He says if he tries to ask me to get paid, which he will, he says, I'll get fired. Here's the position of the workers. This is the position of the worker. And work on Sundays. If we do this one time, the government talks since 2004, we'll figure it out, we'll figure it out. So let's work it out sometime. So they had, as far as I know, two or three, each year they have round tables, so every year this-that comes out in the press. Everywhere you come, we must tell the truth here for the will. How many surveys were made on the subject in Croatia and what results were that most Croatian citizens were to do only what is necessary on Sundays. Whom then we please if we enable, what do you think the trade chains are going to fail? So it won't fail, as we allowed them to enter Croatia when we didn't even condition at least that they had to have 60% as Slovenia conditioned, to sell goods of domestic production. Normally, these big trade chains are destroying small merchants. And in all that, it's important to us when it comes to the Labour Act. Not what the employer will say, but what the worker will say. If we're going to take care of that, then we're really going to agree to actually go into worker protection. Therefore, we suggest that it goes into the third reading and that, together with the ban on Sundays, these solutions of yours will then be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86991	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86992	I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleagues Kovacevic that MPs should fight and fight for workers' rights. Representatives are fighting not only for workers' rights but for all citizens' rights. Trade unions in the labour market are struggling and should fight for the material and immaterial rights of workers, and it is our job to respect this through the construction of a quality legislative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86993	You react to any correction of the incorrect quote with a claim with a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86994	So when you don't react then I have to, who else will
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86995	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86996	That's why you're here to react, this isn't a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86997	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86998	Because you are the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u86999	You made one claim, Agent Silvano Hrelja contests it. I'm sticking to the perfect Rules of Procedure. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87000	Dear Mr. President, dear proposings, colleagues and colleagues. You all remember well that one afternoon here in the Croatian Parliament, in the hot afternoon we discussed three drafts of the law, one that passed the second reading, the second is the Colloquial Law on the Šichterica of fellow Lesars, but not only that, but also good, quality solutions and the Proposed Law on whistles, the proposal of the HSP and we in Croatia supported the retired party, we voted for all three proposals of the law and publicly supported it, or we expressed our wish that it would be very good that all three proposals of the law go to another reading because we also thought today that one of those three laws could be made a very high-quality proposal for amendments and additions to the working legislation, with no meaning, there is definitely no point here in this assembly to talk which one of the three was best. Everyone was good and everyone was worth the attention and there was really a lot of good in terms of changing the working legislation, but let's not get rid of my basement now or the other one was better or worse. It's our court. This proposal for a law that we are discussing today, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, would certainly not have worked out if it had been accepted. We also cannot say at this point how helpful and how much radical changes in the labour market would bring, or in the work world, but I understand, the promoter argues that he can help, I am convinced that he could help, and I understand also the promoter, of course, that he will have an argumentically talked about it and raise to an even higher level what he could improve this Law. So, we welcome the proposaler's intention, once out of collegiateness, and we support this bill because we supported it in our first reading. However, what is not good is not that it has not experienced any further changes, but we support it today and we will vote in favour of this Law. And there's another reason why we support this bill, and that's next. There has been this problem for 3 years and this problem is opening up in the Croatian Parliament, and there are no views, concrete views and initiatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to create a new one, even if it is called adaptation to European legislation or to novelize the old legislative framework in working relations. I agree with one, I rarely agree, but I agree with one of my colleagues, Cain, that the third-month coalition has introduced workers instead of employees into the working legislation and slightly increased workers' rights in the first year of office, but in the second half of its term, it has drastically reduced workers' material rights, let's remember canceled deadlines, severances, but let's also remember additional reductions in pension rights because let's not forget and pension rights are labour rights. These are the rights of past work. So, we appreciate that this is a valuable proposal, a valuable initiative because it proposes changes that are not additionally burdened by the employer, so one social partner has nothing to complain about having extra costs, as neither the schister did, any cost to the employer. What we think maybe at this point in time, this way should not be regulated by law is the question of mobbing, or harassment in the workplace. We're trying to clarify that term through a broader formulation of that term to solve the problem that I don't think is possible. I think it's only possible to do this with an interactive relationship of an employer-syndicator in a company where it happens, and as long as the solidarity union doesn't protect all its employees, not just its members, but all the employees of the company from verbal and non-verbal insults, harassment won't be much use for us to prescribe it in laws. This, that protection happens on the spot, not through, not by writing or by creating a legislative framework itself. Of course, it should be put into the law that the problem exists and should be defined in some way, but hardly that it will live on the spot, so where it arises, that it will be able to prevent where it occurs unless there is this interactive relationship of the employer union in the company itself, i.e. the company itself, and there is no movement in that field without it and there is no protection of workers. Part of the provisions on collective agreements and working arrangements on Sundays. The proposal, which suggests that Sunday's work is regulated by collective agreements, I experience that it is in the function of encouraging and promoting collective bargaining, and I think that's good, but there is one problem. The collective negotiation requires two and the employer is also responsible for avoiding collective bargaining, and the union is responsible for whom the Labour Law allows the means of forcing the other party to force the methods of coercion to force the other party to coerce into collective bargaining. And exactly, my colleague Lesar here has diagnosed where the problem is. We have neither tradition nor a new practice of collective bargaining at the level of branch activities, so we have no border collective agreements. In the store, it is easier to contract with a merchant who owns a trading house and is of local origin, so he lives in that city where the workers live and you will do so, to conclude a collective contract with a retail chain where the owner is usually abroad. The fact is, there is no collective agreement that would cover specifically when we talk about trade all the trade, all the companies that deal in trade. And this is the priority of the Trade Union of Croatia or other trade unions in other centres representing these workers. But this is a serious problem as long as we do not have border collective agreements, and this strategy can also be agreed in the framework of institutionalised social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Economic Social Council. The Economic Social Council can provide guidance, recommendations to build a collective bargaining system and that this system starts collective bargaining from top to bottom, so that the state-level negotiations on the basic problem and the basic cost of working in a particular activity, while teaching this collective bargaining down, so that the Italians would say that an integrated model of collective bargaining is applied from the state level to each company. So I repeat the laws to refer to collective bargaining is good. However, in the life of collective bargaining initiatives, it must come from partners in bipartite social dialogue, which is either an employer or primarily a Syndicate but also an employer when working in the opposite direction when falling into financial or business difficulties, then it is the task of both the Union and the employer to launch collective bargaining and to deal with both labour relations and labour rights. Once again, Lesara's brother-in-law was a very good institute for the record of working hours and paid hours. And it made it possible for a better surveillance inspection and also didn't cost a new employer's spending. Therefore, it was to be missed or incorporated into amendments to the Labour Act. I do not agree with one claim made in today's debate that collective agreements in Croatia are not respected. They're breaking yes. But at times and through court disputes, they are respected. It's the creation of a culture of respect for collective bargaining and I'm sure it can't, that it's not a process that can be installed in a society. So collective agreements are largely respected, broken, but through courts they are given respect for all labour rights prescribed in collective agreements. Also, the finding that some institutes in Croatia are in turns, the Institute of Inspective Control, is specifically not standing. Either the institutes or they exist or they either have to work or they don't exist. This story of constant development from nothing to anything, I think it is worrying about Croatian society. And by me, it's usually a waste of time. The law also provides for inspection supervision for employers with more than ten employees. Why not all the employers? As a matter of fact, labour rights are most violated in small employers, so as the law predicted, that is, categorized them. Small employers are the ones who employ up to 20 employees. So we should cover everything. Of course, in further discussion, we would also find comments about this bill. In essence, we are very positively committed both to the initiative and to this bill. And I repeat, we will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87001	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87002	Thank you very much. I have to correct the allegations, the inaccuracies of my colleagues, that there is no collective contract that can cover all employers or merchants. So the essence of the border collective agreements or collective agreements on activity is that Croatian labour legislation allows the Minister of Labour to extend the application of the collective contract to those employers or traders who did not approach it if there is a legitimate reason as provided for in Article 211. The labour law. And that's exactly why you insisted on it. The state has mechanisms, extend the application of a collective contract to those who do not want to collectively negotiate and join a collective agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87003	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87004	Well, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague that collective agreements are respected. Unfortunately, this is incorrect because of the fact that the workers are so disproved that they can't even report non-compliance with the collective contract. If he logs in, he gets fired. He's the only one who's going to protective custody when he's fired. Therefore, it is not respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87005	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. With this final bill of law on...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87007	Excuse me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87008	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87009	On behalf of the motionary, my apologies. On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President of the House, the esteemed representative Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87010	Sorry, buddy, I could've been behind you. Nothing significant. But I wanted to now, given that all the clubs were now talking. I thank all those who spoke on behalf of their parties' clubs, because what I have noted and I think that you have all agreed that the problem exists, that it needs to be solved, that we should go to extensive and complete changes in labour legislation. I only ask you that because of our own responsibility to the citizens, we do not wait for the end of this term with a solution to this problem. It will turn out that in that last term, the Hague story was avoided, and now labour legislation is being avoided. It avoids what makes the standard of citizens. Because it's not just the workers that are being protected here. This is where employers get out of the same basket. I have recorded many of your remarks. The first three were answered by the presidents of HDZ, SDP and HNS clubs. Thank you for supporting our colleagues from the HSS. Of course to your party. A colleague from IDS, HSP and HSU. And I noticed that actually the remarks that you made are completely decisive, that this is a project that we're going to have to work on even together because I noticed that even colleagues who said that they couldn't accept the law in this form later say that they should have increased sanctions for breaking the law. Well, we've got them, almost double. The problem you've opened, so it's not the level of punishment, it's the ineffectiveness as we say the rule of law or the dysfunction or poor functioning of the State Inspectorate. But I'll start here from the end, my colleague Hrelja says not to visit companies that only employ more than ten. Well, clearly, you should go anywhere. But given the number of inspectors we have until it increases, let's go figure out where to start, otherwise we'll stay on the same thing. So this is a proposal that absolutely needs to change that we have to go around everything and not just twice, but we just have to agree on what numbers we're starting from. As far as mobbing is concerned, I'm not sure it should be excluded from this law, because in which law you'd put it in. I do call on legal experts to help but it is a fact that must be spoken of, which must be recognised and for which sanctions must be determined. I couldn't accept us at HSLS either when we were doing this research and open phones to base it on the relationship between the union and the workers that it happened to or on trust. Listen, for the record, a serious problem like this can't be solved. The problem of antiquity in courts is certainly a problem that this law will not be able to solve. I'm glad that colleague Cain said that labour legislation can't make a decision that everyone likes us. Well, it's clear to me that there are categories in this law that we will resent because we claim that Sunday's work cannot be banned, but not just for traders. It doesn't say anywhere that it's only for merchants. We talked about merchants most often because perhaps the Trade Union was the loudest and with full right. It would be good for other unions to function and warn of the same problem. We really need to see what can be done in the law, perhaps on this strengthened part of what fellow Cain spoke about in terms of craftsmen or the protection of small shops. I don't think we can make a law that would cover everything but I'm willing to say yes in the third reading of all the proposals you've made. Of course, those who want to take part in this do not dispute the right to make it easier for some to get away from the subject and tell me that we will not participate. It is, of course, the right and responsibility of everyone. The need to work on a collective bargaining system is clear, however, it is also clear that it is not our job. I'm also glad you recognized the problem of protecting single-parent families. I have heard the complaint that it is possible, since it is mostly women that such protection may make women less competitive but unfortunately women are still less competitive and let's not make excuses to avoid an open debate. We need to consult NGOs and hear the unions think about it. But indeed there are women who appeared not only at the HSLS club but probably elsewhere who warned that they had nowhere to go with children Sunday, don't work kindergartens, don't have all grandmothers, there are single-parent families. So it has to be built into a model of protection with single-parent families. It's usually a woman. There are, of course, some men. According to the data we received from the union earlier, they claim that no chain of commerce respects the integrity of the collective contract. That's their claim, of course, to be questioned. And if it were the current legislation, that's what we're going from, and we're being set up to make it more worthwhile to pay fines for non-compliance with labour rights than to honor a collective contract because the highest sentence of 190 thousand kunas so far has not been applied but fines of up to 30 thousand kunas, so the lowest penalty or warnings. And we can't play on the employer's sensitivity, that would be unserious, but to the law, to increase the sentence. But there's another interesting piece of information I want to tell you, which is that according to the data we received, they first warned that 70% of the applicants reported overtime to us in general, not just work on Sundays. And when we opened the phones, there were certain companies with names and last names, we asked the inspectorate to send the inspectors, and we got the answers. Indeed, there were no false applications, but in only 11% of respondents, people decided to ask the union for help, only 11%. 51% of citizens would not report the employer at all and 9% avoided the response. So unfortunately 51% of citizens think the problem will not be solved. And then there's the question of where we are. I'll give you just a little more examples to see what people have reported. What was perhaps the most severe was not from the store but was one bakery where the man worked for three years without a single day off and without the inspector’s arrival. And now that we say ten employees should be sent to one this probably wouldn't have happened. Then, not to keep track of working hours, this is mentioned by fellow Lesar, does not show true hours of work, is not paid overtime, is not allowed to their day off in the week, no workers are charged with the billing of salaries, no written confirmation of a contract of work, the same problem with pension insurance, then re-receiving records of working time. Many people have warned of extending their work for a certain period of time, which we know can result not only in population policy. Or, from a total of 98 overtime hours in three months, workers were admitted 7 hours and that part decided to pay them. Then, also work without the use of summer vacations, without records of working hours, non-reporting workers. So, obviously or there's no making up for overtime on days off. We could still say that it's solid that everything exists, not making it impossible to use a week's vacation. In order not to spend all the time I warn you that we have provided for a few changes here, that it is not only work on Sundays but also on increased penalties for offenders of the law in paying overtime, in paying not only on Sundays but also on working Sundays, protecting the dignity of workers, whistles, paying workers, protecting single-parent families with sick children and prohibiting the dismissal of workers by employers if the facility is closed for up to 30 days. These are consultations, the consequences of consulting with experts. We're a little sorry that there was no way to avoid that usual debate that the government has done more damage or more benefit to the workers, but here's the year, it's probably going to be all. We will accept the proposals that you have made and at the HSLS Club we will consider the proposals that have come from some of our partners but also from others that the law, the partners from HSS, I think, should be referred to the law as a third reading, and, of course, colleagues from the HSP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87011	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which I accept in principle, is an excellent opportunity to finally speak in the Croatian Parliament with a full voice about the position and rights of workers today. Because you see, the issue where we are discussing today these minor changes to the Labour Act and only one small segment that bothers today's workers and the whole of our work was debated 3 years ago in Austria by an international organisation and argued that the position of Croatian workers is the most difficult in transition countries. We also established one conclusion that there are no workers in these areas who are willing to work so hard for such a small salary. The worker today shows himself weak, too weak to seek his rights. He feels like there's no one to protect him in that. He feels that his small individual strength is weak, but what we all need to know here and those who decide on his fate is that his associations and the common force is huge and overwhelming, which every political option and capital will ultimately have to count on. The questions referred to above are how the rights of this law that is now sought to amend in one part and which provides for something that has been unknown earlier in which the employer is obliged to protect the dignity of workers. Now they're proposing a little improvement here, and I think they're valuable praises and they need to be installed. However, it is important to note exactly what I was saying earlier. Namely, our existing law in Article 30(8) provides that an employer who has been harassed by an employer in his workplace if he has filed an action, and this employer has not removed such comments that he can, he has the right to terminate his work. I don't know if our workers who work in chains, who are chains of injustice, and not our kind of trade chains, rightly we can call them chains of injustice at all, and I can imagine that such a provision exists. Because they often fight for basic right, the right to pay. If we see a little bit, to touch those issues of unpaid workers, there was something I said by the year 2000 that was completely normal. There were large lawsuits, burdening our courts with misdemeanors and regulars. Since 2000, however, this one path has begun to decrease with regard to these objections, i.e. this fundamental violation of workers' rights, the right to pay wages. And now if we look at the statistics, that's what witnesses and unions are talking about, up to one, we've got the upcoming payoff trend for the worker. It's fundamentally his right. And so such a single worker who is not regularly paid or if he has some regular salary is not paid extra for his work, is not paid for overtime hearing that he has some right to terminate work if even the employer upsets him at work. This is an extraordinary norm that you know where there's no way he's going to exist in private employers because this one would have done better by expediting him and then in any case he wouldn't have the right to compensation, at least until the case, or the dispute was resolved. But here's not that our judiciary, or the practice of a court-renowned employee's response. But please where? Somewhere in state services. And who and whom? And those of whom the employer asks to work. And on the other hand, you have an absolutely diametrically different position sometimes. You have that, the situation of providing the worker with protection from harassment because the employer only asked him to, but this is only about government affairs and government officials and tenants because he warned him that some of the items were waiting. I remember the case during the coalition government when the minister was Bozo Kovacevic. In his review, he found that one inspector had solved a single case in two years. It's a disciplinary day. He's had a lot of difficulties, not an inspector, but a minister, one in front of a disciplinary court, you know to which sentence, to warn. And not to talk about the words and threats and threats he was making to him. But you see, this absurd thing is one individual, or it's lonely cases of what a thing might look like to absurdity. And on the other hand, we have a huge mass. Almost there we can call them proletariats, disfigured people, frightened. It has been mentioned here that many cases have been misdemeanors, including those cases which, that is, the situation that the inspectors are referring to infringing courts, have become obsolete. And then we're surprised at the misdemeanors. Everywhere in the world, courts are thought of as not regularly but as something extraordinary. Relations don't get settled in courts. That's where the items are dealt with. But since it doesn't work out in the state, it all comes down to a good part of these things being resolved, or it's going over to a judiciary that's not meant to solve all relationships, or every thing, but it's done to the ultims. So when nothing is working anymore, that is, when other mechanisms have failed, that is also how the state reacts. Therefore, if the situation itself, the fact that the unions bear witness to the number of such offences, and not to mention those, because there is an unimaginable black number, therefore those who dared to invite the inspector and where they were fortunate to have, that is, the great happiness that he showed up and appeared and there was something there, yet reported, fell into obsolescence. And so the state when it sees that it has such a huge number of objects it has to react in some way. But what does it show? This clearly shows that the state is too weak for those weak. That he can't or won't protect them. And there's our basic problem, how do we say capital? Well, then somehow, as if it were some kind of external force, we started to refer to that capital. It's an individual who's got his hands on, we're not going ahead now, it's not this topic, it's how he got it, and it's questions of another nature. In fact, no one in their right mind can be against capital. Because even work can't do without capital. But the bogs and the capital can't do without work. And the only new value creates work. And that's why we can't talk about the labour market where then the worker is anything but the goods. Well, it's normal for that employer, especially when it comes to women in shopping malls and chains, to say, you won't work, don't. There'll be another one. And that's right. They're waiting for others on the lager. Because we started to think of people as goods. And in many segments. Not just at work. Even in politics and elsewhere. In culture and not to talk. It's something dangerous. It's something that's here. But all of us together can resist it. Because Croatia in its long history, regardless of its composition or its composition, had a long tradition of precisely that nature, to protect man and to raise the voice when he was threatened. Especially in this way when it took alarming proportions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87013	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Anticevic, said in her speech that the upcoming trend of non-payment of salaries to workers was observed in Croatia. Namely, that's incorrect. That's incorrect. Look at all the statistics. Well, look at the statistical office and you'll see. ... All relevant statistics can be obtained in both the Office and elsewhere. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's just a lie. The other thing is if there are irresponsible employers, then you really need them... and through the Syndicates, and in that sense, absolute support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that there's a trend in non-payment of wages it's really not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87015	Replica, distinguished representative Mato Arlovic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87016	Dear fellow Antičević Marinović! And this bill and part of our entire debate this morning shows or points to the possibility that we all fall into one small trap. The delusion of legal normativeism that comes from one of the assumptions of the same normativeism that law can solve any problem. Unfortunately, we're not going to solve the problem by making changes or supplementing laws or new laws, if you really want to finish it, because it's not the law itself. I think we need to take some other steps. They are primarily in the sphere of policy and supervision by the legislative authority and law enforcement by the executive authority how to implement this part. That's the first thing I wanted to tell you. In this context, there is also this instrumentation which can, of course, be completed or completed in this respect. When I talk about the law I will support that he goes into first reading, regardless of what I think the second reading should and extend to that extent and to the content of the work. But I want to point out one fact. Look, if you take Article 30, it is true that paragraph 8 states that even a worker can terminate his work because of a violation of his dignity and must file a lawsuit with the court within eight days and inform the employer. Let me just remind you that because of this or such situation, we have changed Article 251 because of the right to other rights of workers and pay rights. Law or Article 234. Court law, right. Or the litigation process, where we first said that the issue must be resolved within 6 months at the latest, where we are the right to breach of workers' rights, where we have, among other things, given so-called. emergency or emergency procedure initiated. And where we said the debate had to be scheduled, among other things, within 30 days. Also when you take an article if I'm not wrong, 213. The labour law, we have allowed the Unions a right that is not common in the world. So I can call for a strike due to the most severe form of violation of the dignity of unpaid workers. In fact, what was funny out there was when you talked to representatives and employers and trade unions, because it's unimaginable in a democratic world in the civil world that someone works with us without getting paid. We had to be and do and bring it at one stage. Thus, it also shows that some legal instruments are present. But unfortunately, too, there are still people who work and don't get paid. Unfortunately, there are people who are, whose dignity is not only sexual but also by other differences and grounds, injured at work. And for this reason, I believe that it is really necessary to examine how the legal order of the Republic of Croatia is being implemented in the world or in the field of labour social legislation and to protect workers related to law enforcement and the exercise of the rights they have [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87017	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87018	I fully agree with you, colleague Arlovic. However, any improvement that the amendments to the law will not only improve the situation because the existing law has regulated a lot of things and is not respected in a good way. However, every improvement needs to be welcomed. Here's an example. In its current article, that is, Article 46 concerning these amendments, and already at that time stated that the worker has the right to a week's rest for at least 24 hours a week. And what it takes to work on Sundays, then one day of rest must be provided for him every week. Afterwards he talks about the pay bigger, etc. Therefore, the point is that there is no law. And the state is responsible for not law enforcement. Or she's having a good time somewhere. Not every employer is in the same position. So we have tiny little craftsmen, we have families that work all four, six work in one small shop. Well, it doesn't last a week that there's no inspection. But I've never seen an inspection in these big trade chains and... So we have to ask ourselves, why is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87019	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87020	Thank you very much. I am very glad that my colleague Antičević reiterated and stressed the assessment that even the most qualitative Labour Act for Workers does not mean much unless the state develops a system of control and supervision. And here today, several colleagues and colleagues have been repeating the fact that 60% of the misdemeanor reports end up out of date. And it's probably heard by the Minister of Justice and the entire government and nothing. And that is why I will ask the minister's attorney's question and ask for every misdemeanor court in Croatia for the past year everything about criminal charges under the Labour Act and collective agreements, the number of cases that went into oblivion to clear up the one and see how many and what misdemeanor judges have to get fired. But also that crime problem for disobeying the Labour and Corporate Contract Act. In 2005, 215 criminal charges were filed for a work-related offence. 103 initially rejected the state's attorney's office as it concerned the application of a criminal offence to disrespect a collective contract. For the Croatian State Attorney's Office, disrespecting a collective contract is not a criminal offence. Of the 102 cases that entered the process, the courts made 64 convictions, 7 acquittals, 6 acquittals. The others are still in the process. And now watch your punishment. Prison One. Cash fine 46, parole 17 and court notice 1. This is when criminal proceedings are the most ideal picture in respect of labour rights throughout Europe and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87021	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87022	My colleague Lesar, you're absolutely right. And I'm well aware of the court practice that the State's Attorney's Office refuses or rejects criminal charges for these, for this violation of the law. And precisely because I knew it during the coalition government we proposed and introduced in criminal law no... First of all, it's not the right to hurt your salary, it's the failure to pay, the fact of the matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because an employer would say all those who had been reported for non-payment of wages until then because it was a sea of such cases almost one was paid. For he would come and say, "No, I do not deny his right." But I can't give it to him right now, or I'll give it to him with some other hottie or accident. Therefore, by accepting the final act of this legal practice, we have amended the Penal Code and incorporated, incrimination of non-payment of wages. So it's a fact, not just a right. And in such a way, they have disabled the current phenomena that are happening after the Constitutional Court has abolished that whole novel and this part of the Penal Code, of course. As for the very infringements that you also mention that in a huge number of cases, in a vast number of cases they fall into antiquity, the fact is that these deadlines are short and those penalties are small. That is why I support what my colleague Adlesic is proposing, but in any case, it should be prohibited to prison as well as to be forced to charge, and not to make fun of such criminal penalties, because those who can pay will not, but rather wait for order and then make fun of the prison or the state as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87023	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I agree with you that this Amendment of the Law is also a certain improvement and I will also vote for it, but you have voiced your conviction that this is an excellent opportunity to discuss the protection of workers' rights. However, this opportunity has not been used in the debates so far. The key issue is also in this debate, which today has been led to work on Sundays, yes or no, as if it were a key issue in protecting workers' rights. We cannot talk about 400 thousand lost jobs in the process of conversion and privatisation in Croatian way. We can't talk about 300 thousand unemployed workers. We can't talk about the 30,000 who work and don't pay. We cannot talk about the 15 thousand who work on black and used. We cannot talk about working disputes held in Croatian courts for ten years. It's my wife and a group of workers. We cannot talk, talk about these fundamental issues of protection of workers' rights, but it is crucial to work on Sundays yes or no. I was able to talk to some of my acquaintances of the workers who work in the trade chains and who said to me, "Give me something so that this salary doesn't be 2400, not work on Sundays." It's work on Sundays and it's my final point of view that you should pay it well and that you should ensure the day off. Take an example of the Slovenian trade chain in Slovenia, which according to a collective contract that was valid in Slovenia for work on Sundays while it was, was obliged to pay 75% more and secure the day off, and in Croatia the same chain 35% paid and it wasn't his fault. It was us who didn't know how to protect our employees' rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87025	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87026	A colleague of Peru's was exploited from Monday to Sunday. But this matter of working on Sundays yes or no is not an irrelevant question. Because that exploitation, instead of being smaller on Sundays, is escalating on Sundays. And the basic question, therefore, which is also proposed by this Bill, which is already well regulated by the existing law, so as it is obvious to employers that it is unclear to mark and determine it then, in any case, there should be the right choice for the employer to secure double earnings and that the worker is not forced to work on Sundays or holidays. But that our employers, our employers, are the ones who have all entered here and who have received the building permits in no time. That's over seven days before you're home. You come right now. The chain of commerce is broken. So the basic question is whether he respects all rights both to the state and to the worker? And our unions were still valuable, unionists, so they calculated. If they paid all obligations under the law, according to the cities, so to the units of local self-government, to the state and to the worker there would be no two in one city and not six.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87027	Thank you. The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87028	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished co-workers of the Vice-President, representatives of the motionary. I will certainly vote in favour of this amendment and the addition of the Law to go to another reading although I would like you to reconsider the need for change by the second reading and some other items or third items, however. Some other items or articles you did not have in mind. Or which you may not have thought of from these angles, which I will try to talk about, of course, if the arguments and suggestions I make stand. So I think that we should also discuss the possible change and the addition of Article 46 of this paragraph 1 that you have not touched. You only added a few items behind it. But let me have two, three sentences before that. You know, in tradition, in the historical tradition of the human race, whether you look back at the religious or worldly forms of the worldview, even though it's intertwined there's a custom that actually for the employed man one day a week must be provided for his vacation. Christian tradition says it's Sunday. I would like to remind you that in these traditional issues our Constitution and our Constitution in Article 55 says that every employee has the right to a week's vacation and paid vacation and these rights cannot be denied. Therefore, in a week, a worker in Croatia has the right to rest in order to actually restore his workforce, so that he can refresh himself and continue to work. What is important thanks to our tradition, we have in Article 46 of the applicable law in paragraph 1 prescribed it only has one item for now. The worker is entitled to a week's vacation on a Sunday of at least 24 hours. Please emphasize the word right. The worker's right. What happened now? In the same text we said, and if it is necessary to work on Sundays, to work, it is necessary to work on Sundays, then it will be under special conditions etc. He must be provided one day, and he will have to actually have the right to an increase in salary in accordance with Article 96 of the Law. In fact, we have one word to change that right. It's not real anymore. If it's right, then the worker would have to have the right choice whether to work or not on that Sunday. Let's be clear right now. I'm not one of those who advocates banning work on Sundays. I advocate the right of a worker, a citizen, that on that Sunday as we have written down, he does not have to work and the right to be able, as well as his employer, to show his interest, which means if the employer has an interest that he must continue his work on Sunday due to a direct need, then it is either for profit or for lack of profit or for no damage. I agree. I agree. But the question now is that it may be an interest of the worker to motivate him not to work on that day of his weekly rest, or to work. Well, it probably needs to be afforded a profit right, and that's why it should actually be as it used to be in the law to determine how much increased it is and what the rights for a day off are supposed to be doing. It must not happen that we then prescribe in Article 196 of the Law the contents of the collective agreement without discussing this issue of increased wages from minimums that must be added to workers who work, for working days on Sundays, on holidays or during national holidays, and not to say how much it must be maximum. How much between that and a deal between employers and trade unions. It's actually a tripartite negotiation now. Another thing I'd like to say. This right of workers to have a 24-hour board on Sundays is actually correspondence with another right of him and as a citizen. In the article of the 40th, I will quote: “The freedom of conscience and religion and the free public display of faith and convictions are guaranteed.” I am not now entering into who will have any faith and belief and how it will manifest. It's his right to every citizen, but it guarantees the Constitution. Is under this right of freedom for 24 hours of free time on Sunday a worker can also say if because of the direct need of him he asks to go to work I could not work this day because I want to achieve one of my other constitutional rights – the right to religion. This is the second question and the third question that follows in itself. Which, and that is not at all the Labour Act, would be now exceptional circumstances when, apart from these economic interests, interests can arise both on the part of workers and on the part of employers when it is really necessary to organise work, in fact, not to do any harm at all, both in terms of elemental disasters, if it comes to disasters or major damages, the damages of large scales. Because the loss of an employer would endanger the individual jobs of the same workers. Therefore, I think that if this amendment is already going on, and the addition of the law should, with these three, four aspects, further discuss that part, and then work out what is the legal minimum, the maximum, and at the same time leave between the areas where collective agreements can be negotiated, negotiated, reached an agreement on which issues must be raised. In such a situation, I am convinced that there will be a lot of entrepreneurs and employers who will free Sunday as a day for their employees, because that part will not be worth it, as will be those who make extra profits that everyone has been talking about because of tourist rentals, position rents, seasons, etc. etc. The seasonal job is quite fine, which will accept the part and try to solve it by collective agreement in a way that ensures an increased salary that will be such as to motivate, to challenge the interest of the workers to work that day because they will earn more money, which, if not, will give some other benefits to the worker to motivate and interest him. I think that these issues need to be further resolved and should be made more clear to everyone and to others. It must not happen that such failures as we had, inter alia, that the collective agreement did not come to an end, it is explicitly stated, although it implies that the collective contract is under the law laid down in the Labour Act, and in this respect, if already mentioned in Article 96, the increased salary should be particularly worked out in these cases and in the collective contract itself, even though it is not indicated in Article 196 that this issue should be further resolved. Now there's one third group of questions left. It's a matter of law enforcement. We must come to the situation because of the principle of the state of social justice, because of the principle of rule of law and of proving to ourselves that we have a legal state capable of protecting subjective law if it stems from objective law if we are injured to ensure that in this and in these situations, socio-economic rights are actually protected. Otherwise we bite the substance, the basis of the exercise of all other rights. And in that segment I appeal if it's necessary to hire new inspectors we hire them, but I think it's far more important to have a situation where inspectors will work, enforce the law. Because I claim that preventive action, if heard in front of employers, is paid by companies, by responsible persons because they do not implement the Law on the Protection of Workers, if the courts are more efficient and faster when these issues need to be addressed, I am convinced that prevention will be infused with its own fruit and that in fact this segment of wild capitalism and wild capital will be introduced into our own frameworks. And another important thing. You know this question of whistles about dignity when they warn and when that part is worth it. Yeah. It needs to be fully protected. That can't be the answer. That law is now predicting, not in an exact way. Entitle it to be exact so that it cannot be held accountable, but then we must ensure that legal additional mechanisms are not actually created by other basics by which they will eliminate the same worker tomorrow in the process, etc., for which it will be completely difficult to prove that it is in such a situation. What am I saying? You know, our attorney general under our constitution has the possibility of protecting our rights, so why don't we have a deputy staff attorney to protect workers' rights? Do you think that's an accident in these 15 years? Why do some Swedes who have developed a social sense and a sense of protection of labour rights have such things. Why do we not have a transition in Croatia? Is it time not to set up a new occupier for workers' rights, but certainly to provide as part of the occupier with a special person who is the deputy occupier who will take care of the exercise and protection of the rights of not only individual workers, but also collective rights, including trade union organisation and... negotiation and negotiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that the mass of things that are related to the implementation of the law will no longer be as they will be, among other things, because through the report of the Ombudsman and this Assembly, they will be reported on a regular basis and what is actually going on in the way of the implementation of the Labour Act and other regulations that regulate work and working relations, or rather how the largest part of our population is protected in the most difficult relationships in which they are during the working and working life... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87029	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87030	Good fellow Arlovic notices that our spaces have a great tradition and also a Christian tradition that speaks of these issues. I should point out, perhaps by this occasion that even before the first Socialists in Croatia, even in Europe, the first Lion 13 started talking and then said everything in his "Rerum Novrum" encycle about working issues and the protection of workers. Later... And... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was confirmed by their encyclicals and other popes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is even talk about the right to a fair salary, so the salary that he can live by and even go on, speaks of the right to family wages that a worker will be able to support his family. And when you say this, you stand up for it. Absolutely. Well, I think here, so that's where this proposal from colleague Đurđe Adlesic goes, that the worker has the right to choose. No one can force a worker to work on Sundays or holidays. These are the exceptions of a service where work technology and the nature of work have always meant it's not possible, but we all know what we're thinking, but the worker has the right to choose and the employer then gives him a double fee for such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87031	Replication response, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87032	Thank you, dear colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović, for replicating and reminding me of the quality role of the Catholic Church and the Vatican in achieving the social rights of workers. Just let me remind you, it's not all true. Throughout the history of the protection of the social rights of workers, the social teaching of the Catholic Church and the social democracy in Europe and the world has been constantly complemented, and in this respect, they have always sought to find common relations in order to actually achieve the protection of those they care about most. And allow me one more thing. As a result, it is no wonder that the previous pope, among other things, discussed the issue not only of the protection of rights, but of the exercise of the rights of workers and the weaker and the powerless in his interviews, often said that one of the books he carries with him were Marks' reading and capital works. Not because Marks and I would have sexed both his works on religion and on religion, but about social rights and social science related to the protection of the rights of workers' interests. We are somehow in these transition times of all these issues too escaped and it is no wonder that now little, little bit, no matter whether we belong to the left or right or center or to this or that political advance, we ourselves say that we have found ourselves in some kind of wild capitalism. For God's sake, we're the ones in it. We are for civil society, we are for the freedom of the market, but the freedom of the market must also have some social instruments and frameworks in which it comes from that issue, especially through the redistribution of the newly created value, i.e. the gain that must be to ensure the quality of life of owners and entrepreneurs, as well as workers working with that capital. After all, we installed it in the Constitution. We have written in our Constitution that a worker has a salary that he can live decently, a man's life, him and his family, which is consistent with the Vatican's encyclical, which is also consistent with the social science of the Social Democrats and the social sciences of the Catholic Church, but what is the constitutional obligation of this country, and do we have in practice? We don't. That's our job, and we have to fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87033	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87034	We want to ensure the country's social and economic progress... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87035	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87036	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President... Arlovic spoke. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] In the third reading, it will need to make even more improvements that will give concrete answers to these situations that we know about, which are that workers' rights are systematically violated both by those written down, or by the Labour Act, and those that are determined by collective agreements, and we know what practice and the situation, these are the official data of the State Inspectorate that more than 60% of the applications submitted for... I don't want to talk about that part about 40%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the sad fact is, there is no such thing as Minister Vukelic. They would be the ones to take care and submit amendments and additions to the Labour Act, but they can't handle them when they don't follow the situation. The situation follows, for example, the State Inspectorate, but in this part, it should specify exactly what measures will be of such nature that inspectors will have that they will be able to act preventively in terms of sanctioning and implementing workers' rights, so in that part of it I also spoke and a solution in terms of non-payment of work over time to have an executive character, such a single solution. I can give worse examples of what Mrs. Adlesic said that she said the case of a man who worked in a bakery for three years didn't get a day off. I'd single out a case if I knew a man who worked for three years, and he wasn't even reported. I mean, what kind of legal situation do we have? And then we see Mr. Branko Jordanic's shift government, who knew the area, brings in Chief State Inspector Kron Kovacevic, who is defending employers on TV. And to whom a man will turn and how he will turn. So when we don't have a man who understands matter, who knows business, and we had Mr. Jordanic, then you removed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87037	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87038	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kovacevic. I'm not going to defend either the former or the current inspector, I'm going to advocate what we should do. It is their duty as state inspectors to monitor and carry out inspections on the implementation of laws in the area for which they are appointed as inspectors, in particular the Labour Act. But it is totally inadmissible that the chief state inspector is leading the controversy with political party representatives on political options rather than doing his job. This we had opportunities to see publicly on television and instead of asking the question in which function it is, we are discussing why it needs to be changed today, actually supplementing the law with the goal of actually opening an additional space of protection of rights through new changes. No rights when neither what we have are achieved, and not only because of the lack of information and ignorance of workers or the weak organisation and actions of unions, but because of the state bodies that we pay out of tax obligations, or those workers, are not doing their job. It cannot happen that a state inspector comes and defends one side or the other, he must defend the law and must defend it if the rights of workers are violated as he must defend them if they are injured in these relations of the rights of employers and employers. But to make it critical that at this point it's not the most convenient situation, but it's no longer going. Done. It's structures and it's showing actually how it's trying to put itself on the side of the more powerful and the one who's actually in a position to dictate to this weaker position. I completely agree with you, thank you for the replica, and I'm surprised the government didn't raise the question of the responsibility of the Chief State Inspector after participating in that show. Not because of what he said, but because of what he didn't do, but because of what he was doing, he was doing something else and he publicly confessed on that show.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87039	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, colleague Adlesic. It is good that this law has come to a second reading despite the government changing its opinion at first reading, which now says that such minimal changes should not work and that more extensive changes and harmonisation of the legal institutes of the Labour Act with the relevant European Union directives should be made. It is obvious that this is a complex process and that we cannot do it as representatives or representative clubs, that it must be done by the Government, but the government has not dealt with the Labour Act throughout its term. And if the best Labour Act is passed, if we don't have the instruments to implement it, then that law won't solve any of the problems we see in working relationships. But it is an interesting conclusion that we have just two or three minutes ago arrived at the benches, that the HDZ Club suggests that this law goes into third reading, so we will vote, we would vote, I would personally vote and accept it in a second reading, no matter what I say more about this law later which, and with certain remarks, but obviously the law will go into third reading and colleagues Adlesic will have the opportunity to work it out and also talk about this subject again. Maybe it's not good that we're saying it at this pre-election time, so every debate we have, every single one of our voices can actually understand that it's in some function of getting the votes of that population. But what does it matter when we talk or when we talk about workers and work? It is important that work has security, so it is not constantly under certain pressures. They're important under what kind of conditions we're dealing with. So it's not just pay, working time, right to rest, there's also protection at work and quality of conditions and space in which man works. However, in the conditions of a small number of jobs that are occupied and high labour demand to ensure that the minimum existence which often through the salary that the worker receives can neither be realised under such conditions as are not actually appropriate to society as we wish to present ourselves as a state and that we are a state, a rule of law, a state of social justice, etc. And in this proposal, the law actually tries to regulate or better or explain itself, explain only two segments, which are what a worker should do or might do in conditions where under pressure, when unable to work under normal conditions, so to prevent his harassment, verbal insult, humiliation, etc. from others, and it often happens to him from the employer. Here, in this proposed law and supplementing the existing Article 30, it is in fact in some ways explaining what is demeaning, pressures, etc., which the worker should do. However, in these conditions in which workers work today, none will actually reach out to that instrument if it will be forced to do so itself, because it mostly works to ensure minimum existence. He often works or works very often under contract for a certain time, and he will find it really difficult to decide on such a move. So it seems to me that despite our good intentions, we will not achieve the purpose we want by supplementing this article. Another article that is trying to clarify and supplement is article 46, which discusses weekly rest. So our Labour Law I think very well regulates those minimum conditions that should be regulated in the work process and despite the fact that it is often complained that rights have been reduced, that a higher level of rights should be maintained. I think it is good for the state to regulate the minimum rights that belong to the worker as appropriate to its economic conditions. Someone else needs to ensure that these rights are secured at one higher level. For that, there are workers' council firms, there are trade unions, and we, right from political speakers, should stimulate people to organise themselves into unions because they are so stronger that unions are exactly the one institution that will ensure a higher level of law. Unfortunately, however, we do not have such power in society today, trade unions are also divided and are not often able to fight those who own capital. And in this way, if we leave it to collective bargaining alone, I'm afraid the situation will remain the same. Collective negotiation is only in the traps, and even in some large systems you cannot achieve this to sign a collective contract. The majority, however, is somewhat inclined to those possibilities under the law to make either agreements, or this is determined by the law or by the contract of work. In small companies, that's even good. I think it is better to provide it with a work contract and to establish working hours in the contract, so what is minimal or preferably greater than the law and rests. So, if we have the law regulated that our weekly working hours are 40 hours, that the day-to-day worker has half an hour of paid vacation, that he has the right to a week's rest of 24 hours and per week's tradition in Croatia, or this part of the world, this right is usually provided to him on Sundays, unless it is possible to provide him with this right one day a week. In fact, the labour contract should define whether this is the day that is usually, so Sunday or another day and the contract should write which day. That's how we wrote it in the Labour Act. The worker is entitled to an annual vacation, which is also often denied. Therefore, the best-written law will not solve this problem if the state does not provide monitoring mechanisms and effective punishment for those who break the laws, so not just this and some others. So basic supervision is an effective judiciary. If we do so and when we do so, then this debate will cease to be a violation of certain legal rights without sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87041	Replica is a respected representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87042	You're telling my colleague Zgrebec that the state hasn't dealt with the Labour Act in the last three years. Well, she didn't even have a direct need to deal with the law itself, but it certainly is what you say in a good way in your debate to deal with the implementation of the Labour Act, as you say yourself, to figure out the mechanisms that the law has already put into effect. But if the state thinks, if it's on a liberal concept on the side of capital, if it thinks it doesn't have something to intercede, if we all think that most of the capital is a force, an external force that can't even be acted on, if it's still asking that force to worship it as a golden calf, then it's normal to have the position of today's worker as it is. The worker is disappointed, apathetic, has the feeling that everyone has abandoned him, that every name he has according to needs speaks and that protection is lagging behind. Therefore, it is asked and is a fundamental issue other than the law because if it is not such a political environment it will not be implemented regardless of the mechanisms that possibly exist and are stronger or weaker. So, the concept of what the state normally thinks about the ratio of work and capital is important. But if he thinks that capital creates value without being created by a worker, then he's mistaken, but then we have the result that we have. And you've noticed, no one's talking about it because a man's happy to work. So no one's talking, it's considered a great luxury to talk about safety at work and protection at work. It's also a big and painful question. There's a growing number of accidents at work, a growing number of deaths at work. People stay disabled, they die, children lose their parents. Therefore, what is most important and what is essential is a decent salary for a decent job.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87043	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87044	So when I said that the government was not involved in amendments to the law at all, I did not go into the essence of why it was not engaged. Perhaps because it has assessed that under the current conditions, this law is sufficient, so that it does not need to be changed, that it should not be further coordinated, that coordination will only take place once we are seriously negotiating entry into the European Union. But I'd say it again. The labour law provides minimum conditions or minimum rights. Everything else should be resolved by collective bargaining that is not in Croatia or very little. Therefore, both certain likely incentives through our Social Partnership Office and in other ways should be stimulated by those who engage and engage in collective bargaining and thus actually protect themselves and their own capital but protect themselves from the other side and workers' rights. We often talk, here is the recent announcement that Croatia has the highest rate of sick leave. No one enters the essence of why in Croatia are such rates of sickness, as much as the psychological burden that our workers are exposed to, how much the working conditions under which they work are affected, how much the pay levels they receive and cannot ensure themselves the basic minimum conditions of existence are affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87045	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87046	Thank you very much. One of the thematics or suggestions is to think about how labour contracts could be regulated and established certain rights which are otherwise subject to a collective contract are very dangerous for workers because, in relation to one worker, they will never personally be able to fight material rights as through collective bargaining and advocate the Labour Treaty. And with small employers, it's a clean anti-union attitude. Is there a tradition of collective agreements in these Croatian spaces? Someone says we don't have a tradition. In 1932, a collective contract for innkeeping and catering was concluded at the time of Crikvenica, which also covered Novi Vinodolski. Then we replace the dinars with today's kunas and we'll have one of the best collective catering contracts in terms of content. Do we have a tradition of trial in these places? In 1943, the district court in Varazdin, on a case of a case of a calcium because the owner did not pay him overtime, passed the ruling and concluded the provision that this verdict had to be applied to all the Calphs covered by the Varazdin District Court, to all commercial assistants because there was no collective contract. So in 1943, the judiciary in these areas could judge you, and today we don't know how to make judgments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87047	The answer to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87048	Well, I agree with my colleague, Lesar, that we often encourage this anti-syndic as he said. However, the fact is that trade unions are not so powerful and strong that they could be partners with such large capital, large systems built on such privatisation as it was run in Croatia. And then fellow Lesar you have this particular situation. The unions are fighting each other. It's hard to come to some kind of border agreement that we once had or collective agreements without saying that in small or medium-sized enterprises at all, the employer won't even hear about the collective bargaining, he won't hear that the Union enters it, especially if he owns the entire company. He won't hear the Syndicate enter his company at all. We've heard that very often from the presidents of individual unions what problems and inconveniences people experience if they want to start a union. Well, my colleague Lesar, you were in the Union. You could have stayed and trained him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87049	Replica is a respected representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Zgrebec. Can I go on? ... [[The intruders don't understand.]] It is certainly good to discuss here amendments and additions to the Labour Act as a way to draw attention to the position of workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You here in your presentation talked about both the demeaning and the pressures that the workers, who were exposed to, and I would, I would support that thesis and I was faced with the opening of many chains myself. Here's to the county that's a poor environment. Still, the most interested are the trade chains that come where the most common workers are exposed to unprecedented demeaning and pressures, where they are even given a time when and how much they will use the toilet, not to mention other things. It must therefore be the system that will prevent the abuse of labour rights and ensure the application of labour rights. Of course there should be inspection, effective inspection, but the trade unions are not there to ignore, although I agree with you that in, trade unions cannot resist such strong capital that only profit sees as their sole goal. And it's really unacceptable today's position, especially in the store, and here we're talking about working on Sundays and working in stores where the most common workers are exposed, often young workers and mothers who are not paid, who are very little paid, and who, for all those shortcomings, are the failures that happen on groceries, thefts, and they still have to make up for it, and then I really do ask if they have anything left with all their work at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87051	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87052	My colleague Lelic, we in this great desire, the desire for foreign investment, the foreign capital, were indiscriminately letting anyone who wanted to come to Croatia come. Look at our cities these, the trade chains have opened large buildings in the centers of our cities. What you could never do in your city and your country. In Slovenia, one of our owners wanted to open a department store in Novi Mesto. They said, "You can, but 7 kilometers from New Town because there's enough trade for this population." We never did that. We've legally said that, we've said that to certain other conditions, and we're equally guilty of both state and local government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87053	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87054	Well, first of all, I'd like to make some senses clear. There's a lot of mention of capital here. I would like to point out that capital is a social relationship, that capital is a form of community or a way to reproduce life. That's what capitalism comes from. You can also talk about money as capital, but why does it matter? It is important because there is a labour force in the capital ratio and there is the interest of those we call employers or those who have capital in this other sense. It's regulated on the market. It's logical for that workforce to be protected, too. So labour carriers or workers. Uh, we had such a concisely defined law that we had a labour law where there wasn't a worker because we ideologied all the terms. Thank God that prevailed. The basic problem arises when there is a so-called. Homo duplex or double person in one man. That abstract part of the law is all recognized to you, in practice hard, little of it. And that's where we come up with the problem that my colleague Dragica pointed out that the people who... My colleague Dragica pointed out that people who are protected by law do not reach for that law because if they do, if they do so themselves, then they feel the power of those who represent capital on their bones. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And there's the problem. That's why I'm talking about this... how much state must protect and guarantee through inspections and so on control, courts and all that to be protected and how much union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are entering the problems of the trade union movement in Croatia. He's who he is, and it's one big subject, but God forbid he's too much to brag about. [[Don't curse God!]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87055	Okay. The answer to the esteemed representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87056	Well, in that first part, we heard a little bit about economic terms, but in the end, I would say what my colleague Jurjevic finally said. The state must actually be equal to all its citizens. That's the rule, and the state actually has to be, to ensure the right of the minority and to ensure the rights and protection of the weaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87057	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87059	You want to take a break for the club and make a deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87061	Mr. Kapraljevic is on his way to thank the vice president. You've already raised your line?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87062	In any case, I support the idea of colleague Adlesic and the desire to make some help to workers who work on Sundays and so on, who work overtime and so on. But I can't vote for this. I can't vote for two reasons. The first reason is because it solves work on Sundays, but it doesn't solve paying for that work. And the other reason is that it encourages whistles, and it doesn't give them enough protection for those whistles. Let me explain. We all know, and we've had our chance to talk to those who work especially at the store, and we all know that it's not just a matter and a problem working on Sundays, but the problem of working overtime, the problem of working nights, the problem of difficult conditions, and all of these are the problems that workers face, and this proposal from my colleague Gjurje does not solve the way they pay for that work. It decides how they'll work, under what conditions, that they'll negotiate it by collective agreement. But there is no solution to that question, and there is no change in the article of Law 99 which should be regulated, the Labour Act, which should regulate the question of compensation for this work. And article 99 of the Labour Act says, "I'm sorry." For the difficult working conditions of overtime and night work, and for working on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that a worker is not working is entitled to an increased salary. It used to say 50%, 35% and so on, and in law it has to be defined how much it's going to be. If we leave it to the employers, he'll write that on Sundays he gave him one more lip and a finished story. And he gave him a bigger salary, and I'm not talking about those employers who are going to write that they gave him double the salary, and then we're going to tell us on Monday to get it back, because we have examples in the store of those who work, who get the salary of 2500 kuna, and then they have to go back and half that back to the employer, and the fact is that it's really hard to work at the store. It's no problem Sunday and talk to people who work at the store so everyone will tell you, not everyone, most of them will tell me to pay me fair and square I'll work. The problem is paying, because those of us who used to work in Germany, and I've been doing thank God on several occasions in Germany on a scale and orderly basis. That's not why. [[And that's why you're yellow!]] I'm yellow because that's how Mom and Dad painted me and I thank them for it. I thank them for that! We who worked in Germany, and Mrs. Zdenka will agree with this she knows very well how to pay work on Saturdays, how to pay work on Sundays and how to pay even overtime. That's a minimum of 50%. It depends on what activity it is. That's why I can't support this, so I say it gets rid of work on Sundays, but it doesn't get settled by paying. And the other thing is, it can be settled by collective agreement and by current law. If these figures were determined there very simply to be resolved in trade, for example, by a border collective agreement which, when signed by more than 50% of those working in that branch, the minister, so well written in Article 211, then the minister may, if there is a public interest, be able to extend the application of a collective contract to persons who did not participate in it, or have not subsequently joined it. This means that the minister can now say by law, gentlemen, if 50% more than 50% of the collective contract has been signed, it applies to everything, so that the issue of payment can be resolved in this way. As for the change in that part about the protection of whistles, I say we give them false hope that when they report some kind of corruption, they'll be protected for their civic courage and for that report of corruption, it's just giving false hope. In poor countries such as Croatia and is still a poor country. The protection of whistles comes down to the fact that they mostly end up on the street, they're mostly chicanated, and they have to leave the company they've shown for corruption. Not the show, but where they pointed to corruption. In affluent countries, this is solved almost as well as protected witnesses. They're changing their identity. They're getting rid of the job elsewhere, especially if it's big robberies. So it's about big corruption. We can't do that. It's clear to me this way, but I don't want to give citizens false hope that they'll be protected if they point to corruption. In any case, I call upon the citizens to be encouraged, to report corruption, but let them not expose themselves by chance, because in this country no one will protect them. They have examples of all those who went out to the streets from their companies, especially from public companies where they were expelled because they pointed to corruption. In order to resolve the issue of corruption, we must, in any case, pass the Law on the protection of whistles, but we cannot install an article that will encourage them, and they certainly will not profit from it. I call upon all citizens to show their civic courage, to find one of the researchers of journalists, one of us Parliamentarians who we have to point out and do this job for them so they don't go out on the street. And I want to encourage citizens to report corruption wherever they see it. But not to rely on their own protection but to try to do it differently. As for the inspector's supervision and this strengthening of the inspector's supervision, it means that the inspectors are forced to tour twice a year by certain companies, I agree, though. I think they should come more often. However, where inspectors come and how they come we know that very well. He can get there 50 times. Especially in a big trade chain. Well, that big trade chain buys half of the Parliament in 15 minutes, MPs. ... Buy half those inspectors, and I said half of the MPs, no matter the color. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87063	I ask you not to insult the Assembly of Assembly MPs and give you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 214 of the Notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87064	I've put it in quotes, I'm sorry, I'm putting it in quotes of "the Assembly MPs." And those inspectors he can buy, I don't think he'll ever do anything just to come to him 50 times for inspection. And as far as trade itself is concerned, that idea about the record of working time, that would help the inspectors anyway. So-called The hat that used to run in any case would help those inspectors because they knew who he was when he worked. Besides, when you walk into any bathroom in any bar, you have the inspection surveillance records of the waiter who had to do it, who has to go in there and see if everything's okay. If that were the case at work, then the inspector came and saw who was working that day. As we see if anyone has checked those rooms I've been talking about. And there's a schister in Parliament where we sign up every day when we come in, even though I stopped signing up when I saw it didn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87065	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished vice president of Dom Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I could almost give up because later on, my colleague was defunct. First, he started to say that the only thing he talked about here was working on Sundays. Of course, it is not just about sanctions for work, not paying for work on Sundays, but about not paying overtime with increased penalties, by determining which places the inspectors need to go and where the key should go. I agree that we can say that twice is small. But that's exactly how many times more than nothing. Let's try to see how many they've been going around so far. I'm at the beginning until you were brought out that kind of information. And otherwise, I think it would be good to recommend that we read the law before we talk about it. And thank you, dear colleague, for giving the warning, not a very warning. I don't know what half of my colleague, Lesar, is talking to an agent about so I can buy myself out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87067	Capraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87068	It would be important to know who they are. But I'm also asking you not to talk about state inspectors that way. I didn't know where the quotes were going, either in front of the MPs or in front of the purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87069	Thank you. Lapsus lingue, not a colleague of Lesar, but a colleague of Kapraljevic. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87070	First of all, thank you, Mr. President, for saving you from insulting the Parliament that should not yet be offended. But like this, first of all, I say it's a completely incorrect assumption that most employees are for working on Sundays. I'll tell you why. Wherever I go into the store, they're all against that work. But one small analysis will prove this. If, as colleagues claim, the salaries are 2 thousand kunas, meaning daytime trader, the dealer who works gets about 80 kuna, less than 80 kuna. 50% on 80 kuna is 40 kuna. And I'm asking you who it is or who's going to kick all week not to be with the family for 40 kuna. Only Mr. Kapraljevic can claim that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87071	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87072	Excuse me, I followed my colleague Markovanovic closely, so I didn't hear you calling me. Col. Kapraljevic mentioned the application of Article 211 or the possibility of applying Article 211. The labour law, and if I am not mistaken these days, is being initiated by one of the procedures to extend the application of a collective contract by the Minister of Economy and I want to believe that such a solution and decision will occur. It is rarely applicable but these days I have seen that just one of the signatories of collective agreements has initiated the application of Article 211. Before I talked about collective agreements from 1932 but I see that some do not even know the newer Croatian history, so I will say that the first collective contract is in independent Croatia and I signed it in 1993, the General collective contract as the basis of all the border collective agreements that were later created during the war in such a situation came to a collective contract and that was the basis. Although the minister then suggested that instead of calling the "general collective contract", we use the term "All Association Agreements" to remain the term "General collective contract". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87073	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87074	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's counterpart Lesar, the fact is that the "grand collective contract" most workers can be protected because as soon as 50% of the ministers pass by law can declare that the collective contract applies to everything. And I don't know why until now, not once, that right has been used and why unions, union centres or whatever they're called, why they haven't tried to provoke it to the minister and apply it if not to any other branch then at least to trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87075	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87076	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kapraljevic still offered me two important things when he spoke about the position of merchants and merchants. In fact, your situation is such that these are people who are constantly, living under stress in fear because they are like between a hammer and an anvil for everything that comes to the consumer, a customer who is unhappy with any remark he makes if he reacts in a way that the consumer will not like again is the consequence that he will appeal to the employer and that the employer will cancel the contract on the work of that trader. I don't want to talk about those situations when the inspection comes, so you're fined and then it's paid by a merchant or a trader in your pocket and the employer says it doesn't interest me that you paid, so we have cases small, not a small number, but quite a large number. Now we're talking further, that we're not talking about how the cameras can't even go to the bathroom during working hours so they don't shoot. I mean, it's one mobing and one position like that, but a man's forced to do it because he's still earning a thousand and 800, a thousand and 700 kuna, he's got no protection, and he'll normally end up on the road, so unfortunately, he's got to take it out when we don't do anything. Another situation is that of which a colleague well began to question the whistler. Let's take the case of the worker of the tobacco factory Zagreb that pointed to conversion and privatisation and as they ended, the state sent the police to kick them out. Then who else will go to that part where he knows what the situation is. How did Vesna Balenović and all the other cases go? So all this says is we have to do a lot of things here, but then we really do law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87077	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87078	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Kovacevic, I agree entirely with everything you've said, but I would like to clarify one thing about trade chains and business chains. I know one of the owners of the trade chain, in fact several of them who owned the trade chain, the Croatian trade chain, sold it to foreigners and among other things while they were in that group that is Croatian, suggested to raise their salaries 100% to their employees, which would cost the company 5% of the margin. Practically none of us would have felt it, and the workers would've had twice as much pay. The conclusion was, as long as the labour market is like this, as long as we have so many unemployed, it's not worth it to us at all or we need it, and that's why there's mobbing, so there's overtime, so give me half of it, give me back half of it, and that's why the situation is like this. The labour market offer is huge, at least 10 to 50 people compete for one place, and therefore it can be done as it is done that workers are not paid to work on Sundays, neither for overtime nor for night work and other.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87079	Replica, distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87080	Mr. President. Because of your beautiful blond hair, I don't doubt your Croatian background first, that would be one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87081	You see how soft Zdenka is, she didn't say you had yellow hair.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87082	I have, I don't doubt you either, Mr. Peru. You told your colleague Kapraljevic that you were meeting with Sundays people who told you to pay us, that we should be paid for our work fairly, that I don't mind working on Sundays. I'm facing the opposite of that. And the third thing you called my name, you're absolutely right. Here in this law, there was no way to resolve overtime that has been in the world since Friday afternoon, Saturday, Friday night until 20, after 20, then Saturday, then Saturday afternoon, then Sunday, then night work, etc. etc. But I hope this third-reading law will be better than it is now and I'm not comparing it you've noticed, never the country I've lived in for 30 years with the country that's being created. Because I always want to, and I stress it, and now, even when we're passing all the laws and laws on work, let's be ourselves a role model first, so we'll have better laws. And in the third reading, if there is a third reading, or I suppose it will come, it's already announced, why not work on Sundays instead of doing it everywhere, and in Germany, have the first Saturdays of the month that work in the morning from 6 a.m. to 6 a.m. on Thursdays and long Saturdays, so we can talk about this, and here I am now, this is the first time that I've compared something to the country I came from and with our homeland, but it's also one way to replace Sundays or one long Thursdays or one Wednesdays or every first Saturdays of the month as usual, and you've seen in Germany there are no big trade chains that work and we all, regardless of the party, on the left, right and middle. Please, trade chains, foreign trade chains can't even do 5% of what they do in their country of origin in our country and I avoid shopping with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87083	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague. I thank you for that finding at the beginning, but it's me yellow that could mean I'm Swedish, I mean blue. And I don't want you all to be as yellow or blue as I am to prove that we're all Croats, it's not like that. And as for the very comparison of that German "lange Sontag" and "lange Samstage". The Lange Sontag is gone, but the Lange Samstage. I wouldn't compare those things either. But I'd compare legal solutions, so I'd compare what's being applied there, that some things, I'm not saying we have to take over, but some things we can take over. However, I think with such a long tradition, some things could take over that are good. I'm not saying they have everything perfectly solved, but let's say the tax system specifically charges those thieves who black out, it works very well in Germany. And as for this, that you meet those who wish not to work on Sundays, happiness and so do I. But no one's ever done as much research as these, as many of them. If we're referring to it as 87% there's a Catholic, it's true, but if we were to ask these and those Catholics, there's an order not to steal. The seventh command of God that says don't steal. If we'd acted like that, the state wouldn't have been robbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87085	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Kapraljevic said in his second statement that it is not important to work on Sundays but it is important that this work is not paid. Well, that's, I'd partly just agree with that, because there's a service like health care where it involves the nature of work on Sundays, but where it's neatly paid under a collective contract and where the problem is much smaller. But here when it comes to trade, here's when we rely more on trade, and I really think that this problem is the most pronounced problem, and the problem is working on Sundays and the problem is overtime too. I mean, I don't know if there's even a notion of overtime in there, and we know that he's quite expressive. I've met examples where such employers end up in court, in a criminal court, and when employees come to testify and what else they're going to say is not true because they're going to be out of a job, so it's really a big problem without talking about those miserable wages in the trade, in the textile industry. Well, we remember those scenes in the textile industry in Osijek, I think it was, so there's really no saying how sad it is to work for thousands and 700 kunas to work on Saturdays, to work and overtime only to get that poor pay and still don't get it, and this is fully supported by what my colleague says I don't know if these employers behave in their home countries like they think we are here to exploit and to abuse our employees. So I repeat once again that the system needs to be protected, that the inspection should do its job, but it is also a responsibility for each of us to fully respect it, and that your statement that half of the parliamentary deputies could be bought and so, it is I think that it is a very dangerous statement and a dangerous message that we cannot possibly agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87087	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll start at the end. As for the purchase of parliamentary deputies, I didn't think it was because of people, but because of our receipts, you may have misunderstood me. But as far as we're concerned, one big chain of commerce buys us all because all of our salaries when they're summed up, it's one day's hike, so we understand each other. I'm talking about the money they have, I'm not talking about people who can buy or can't buy. There are some that can't even be bought. And as for Saturday's work itself, let's say you were talking about health care. I know other examples. There are private doctors, so private offices, there are pharmacies that also work on Sundays, which also work on Saturdays, doctors work Saturdays. Ask them how they pay their sisters. Ask them how they pay their sisters! Do their sisters get more lip for work on Saturdays or those in drugstores that work on Sundays if they get, if they're private pharmacies whether they get more of what they do on Sundays. No, I don't. Certainly not. As for trade chains, we should first condition 70% of Croatian goods, 30% of import goods and 10% of Croatian goods even through their chains outside, and then not speak, that is, when they were just coming, without saying that we should protect workers as they were protected in their countries of origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87089	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS club, 5 minutes of debate, the distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87090	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unlike Mrs. Petricevic, I always doubt my identity. Not in your own no, because I think it determines me a little more than ethnic... Yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. But this you've been doing lately since... The debates are dominated by something that I would somehow undertake under the category of this review. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, in the beginning, we ourselves don't believe in the work that we here as politics have to do. Here, colleague Antičević mentioned some of the encyclics "Rerum noverum", so let's contextuilize a little when they appear, when the problem arises then wisdom reacts and so all of them are and there is no pope who did not have his work, encyclical work. And that is precisely in 1890 when this first encyclica appears exactly that time of wild capitalism at the time that some theorists responded to, the church also reacted. We are also in this transition and that our transition is, it is itself always a challenge and it creates exactly these elements of the feeling of the original accumulation of power and capital and some institutes that have worked are, now do not function or have been pushed somewhere to open space precisely for such opportunities that are in the '90s. years and offered and now politics reacts. My colleague Adlesic, not only her, but she has become sensitized at this point, and therefore she goes with her proposal, goes with the bill that I think she really is, that she really shows exactly what the problem exists, the problem needs to be diagnosed, but not only that, but she should also give some recipes to solve. You know the story, the interpretation, that bass about the cricket and the ant isn't uniform. Then they taught us in some time to be on the side of the ants. I've read the same one... which shows that, in fact, it should be that cricket was supposed to be the paradigm of one of the successful and desirable behaviors in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you see this, there was also someone here who mentioned the right to choose. It's a couple of excellent liberal topics, and if, just we have to enable a man, there's every single individual right to choose and that's exactly what this bill does. You want to work, you want to, if you want to work, you got to get paid. If you don't want to work out who knows, we said for who knows what reasons, so why did it fall in the Constitutional Court that... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So because the adventists rightly found some way to respect their constitutional rights and the law had to fall. So right to choose, let's respect that right to choose. So what's it cost us? But it is my right to choose not to in any way bring any other right that differs from my right, and that is all wisdom, and that is exactly what this Law offers and that in the right way is solved and nothing more and nothing less. I spent the Easter Day in Rovinj, Istria, Croatia, Istria. The whole town, you have a feeling he played, he danced, people were satisfied and the caterers, and the merchants, all great, there, it's nice weather, the tourists came, something will be spent. Let's say the White Manastir is about the same town as Rovinj. There wasn't that optimism. You see, this is how, in fact, how this fact, we live in the same state, the same laws and one quite different mood because there is no muvig, there is no optimism, there is no such joy in life, there is no cricket that will then spend so the ant can earn something and there is then, and then there, there is then a wise government has to react and it is precisely creating these equal opportunities of life for all its citizens and that is it. Well, we can't give up on whistles because we have some negative experience. So unfortunately someone had to be an avant-garde and then he paid that price of his, that cowardly first. And you know how we treat whistles? What political option attacked, and then we'll, so Ankici Sticky clapped, but then Vesni... The whistle and that's our fact, and that's us here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who are we kidding? And that's our relationship. If he sings in us then he doesn't, if he sings in others then he's great and it's a relationship, through the media and through politics, and this one in the law tries to create assumptions that really are equal conditions, equal conditions for every whistler no matter what political options come from or which one he... We're supposed to be fighting corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's not a bad idea for this to go to third reading. So we will again be able to demonstrate our responsibility and obligation as parliamentary representatives to the very world we want to protect. And I hope so even though I think we could end it in this second reading, but okay. You want to do it then, we'll watch this movie one more time, but we have to solve it so it's not a couple of excellent subjects because it's a human, everyday topic that, if the Popes could react from the end of the 19th century, so I guess we can do it in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87091	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87092	Mr. Vice President, colleague Kramaric! There is an incorrect comparison between Rovinj and the White Manastir because it is incomparable in the standard and way of life. That'd be the first one. And secondly, as for your suit and shirt today, you're really nicely dressed, elegantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87093	Thank you. House Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87094	Thank you very much, fellow vice president, colleague and colleague. I really thank you because we're today and it's Friday, it's a meeting hall to look and attend a different debate. All the political parties spoke. And what's here, in the year that's close, there's already elections, it's a miracle, and that's that we all agreed on a diagnosis. I'd like to beg if my colleague Babic could be a little quieter. I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87095	Dear Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. I don't hear Vice President Home from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87096	And I didn't hear myself, either, but now it'll be easier. So I thank you for the fact that we've all agreed to the diagnosis, and there was no significant difference. Of course, we have proposed different measures. From those that are useful, which are enforceable, which can be put into law into third reading and which are not demagogue, to those which are less useful but unfortunately completely true, such as the thesis of states and institutions do not function. And as an illustration of this difficult thesis, the story of inspectors was used, above all, to inspectors of work. I tried to sum up what could be fixed for the third reading. But before that, I will remember the sentence of my colleague, Vice President Arlovic, who said the law cannot solve everything. So then I ask you to understand for all the remarks you have made yet I cannot find my foothold in the third reading of such a sensitive topic. Because if we're looking for more inspectors, we're changing the State Inspectorate Act. It's okay. If we keep the number of departures and the number of employees that finally need to get out, so they get out of the slippers on Sundays and check out who's doing it all on Sundays, it's doable. The requirement to see who does not process labour legislation is certainly good. We won't be able to build it into the law, but it will create a clearer picture for us. I agree with my colleague Cain who said we can't all like each other, and even this election year, I think that's good. Our political responsibility is that we don't all like each other, but to find the best possible solutions. And I remind you, therefore, this was not the Act of Work on Sundays but rather the non-payment of overtime, on working on black and especially on how to create new jobs if the functioning of the state inspectorate and the rule of law were paid according to the law. And especially according to the increased penalties we're proposing. How many thousands of jobs is that, then? It doesn't have to be 200. But make it 25. It's already a figure that means a lot to every family. Of course, there are penalties for irresponsible employers. However, we will surely have to admit that there is also responsible entrepreneurship. Then, the protection of the whistles that were opened here as a topic almost separate from this law. And I accept that we need to see if it has to be part of this law. And I don't think so. There's no reason to write a new law. We'll call legal experts, preferably as far away from politics as possible, and we'll hear their attitude. The same goes for the story of mobbing, where colleagues from HSU have suggested that the mobing be separated from this law. If that had been said in the first reading, we might have been able to fix it, but we also need to see it. Of course you need to hear what it means to protect a parent's family, as a rule of women and we believe that it is necessary in relation to their competitiveness. I'll have to check that information, too. But also families with disabled children. I'll remind you there's a law waiting for more than a year in procedure. We're all sensitive to the story, but there's no law in the procedure. So we accept that the law goes into third reading, but we insist that the third reading be conducted before summer. Otherwise, we will avoid the adoption of a law that actually depends on the standard of our citizens. And all we're going to do is avoid, we're not going to tell who we've decided to blame. I think it would be the biggest mistake and escape of responsibility that we certainly wouldn't be, should be sanctioned. We will certainly have to put into third reading, try to put it as articles and see what it means to make a minimum wage decision that is open as a topic this year. And what does that mean for women's working lives? I've had a chance to hear different attitudes about how we can work until we're 65 years old. Maybe he does. But women who are in factories, on tape, nurses, educational workers, not to list all the professions, certainly not. Maybe that's possible in some countries. But it's certainly not possible in countries where you don't have kindergartens working second shifts, where you don't have an extended stay, where everyone's not lucky to have a grandmother service. We can compare and seek equality with European legislation but only European standards before that. Thank you all. Let me see, just personally, I'm really pleased that the debate from that initial charge ran away from politics and finally came into its own summary, so in order to solve the problem. Although we did have a little walk from Marx, Engels to the Bible, but here's the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87097	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Pause until 3:00. The vote at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u87098	Final proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. Proposer of the Law is MP Djurdja Adlesic. I am voting on the next conclusion on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, in accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Clubs and the Club of Representatives of the HSLS. To vote. The result? Unanimously, with 83 votes for the proposed conclusion. Selection of appointments and resolution. We have one proposal for a decision to resolve the members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council, Danko Bljajic. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 18. The law on Croatian broadcasting. You received the motion for an act at the session. I'm opening a debate. ... I'm closing the debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 4 abstentions were made, a decision on the resolution of Danko Bljajic as a member of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89462	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 53rd session held on 25 April 2007, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament identified the proposal for a resolution and appointment of members of the National Health Council. First of all. The duties of National Health Council members Dragan Dekaris, academician Zdenko Škrabalo, Mr Branimir Kvorištec, Mr Slobodan Lang, Branko Bakula, Mihajlo Vireg, Zdravko Ebling, Miljenko Kapović and Mate Mihanović are hereby resolved. And under the other. For members of the National Health Council is named Željko Rajner, Zvonko Kusić, Miljenko Kapović, Mate Ljubic, Krešimir Glava, Zvonimir Mareković, Stojan Polić, Ilija Škrinjarić and Gojko Buljat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89463	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89464	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm usually at these points basically not answering. However, this time since I held a meeting of the Election Committee yesterday, I discussed the proposal. I think we should say a few sentences about that. It is related to the proposal, therefore, to the new members of the National Health Council, and to the proposal of the Minister in accordance with the law, in accordance with Article 110. The Health Care Act, which states that the Health National Council numbers 9 members who, on the proposal of the Minister of Health, are from the ranks of prominent experts in certain professions of medicine in order to study the health problem of giving and proposing expert opinions in the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues that are important to the Republic of Croatia. So, the minister suggests, this Croatian Parliament is making a decision on the proposal. I don't know in which way it is prescribed that the minister proposes whether he himself is, in his own opinion, whether a public call is being made or not. But colleagues and colleagues, the area of health is proposed by nine council members. All in a row distinguished male experts. I say, I don't usually discuss such proposals this way. But you know, sometimes there may be areas where you can tell, so you know, colleagues don't have enough women, they're not interested, etc. However, health care where women are in the majority when it comes to doctors of medical science in the area in which women are in the majority when it comes to specializations, except for individual branches. My colleagues and colleagues who are here from these areas know what they are. When it comes to the area where women are in the vast majority of students, therefore, studying medicine. So I really hereby express my protest which is precisely in this area of the minister who should take care of it at all, and we are now once again proposing only men experts from that area. I remind you of, I remind us, but I also remind the Government and remind the Minister that the Gender Equality Act, which was passed in half of 2003, based on it, all national policies and strategies relating to gender equality, but also on population policy, but also on the policy of combating domestic violence,... based on these laws created to allow us today to actually ignore this law, and that is precisely from those who should take care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, I really wouldn't want the provisions of the Gender Equality Act to remain just a dead letter on paper, or alive at the time when we have to brag somewhere out there, look what regulations we have in that area. I really ask the President to somewhere, and I suppose that is exactly what this Croatian Parliament should finally start and say a lot, that is, break such practice. Return this proposal and ask or ask the minister, and he also has his co-ordinator for gender equality within the ministry to repeat the procedure and to adequately represent the dispute in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89465	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89466	Mr. President, actually on the trail of what fellow Sobol has already said, I'm joining this debate. I believe that the time has come to live, because we now have legal solutions, not only the constitutional provision on gender equality and the ban on discrimination, among other things and gender, it is time now that we have the Law on Gender Equality to start implementing it. I think the praises are worth all these names that are proposed here, and it's a shame we can't have next to them...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89467	A little louder, please. A little louder and harder. Give me some more fuel. You're making noises so you can't hear anything. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89468	But it's completely... But it's quite clear and certain that in the existing council that needs to be resolved we had an anti-constitutional practice where actually all men were. Now we have a proposal again with all the men. It would be good to postpone this decision and ask the Minister to review his proposal and submit a second proposal in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Gender Equality. I don't think any of the proposed candidates could be fit to be a member of the Health Council, not that. But it is also totally unacceptable to repeat from mandate to mandate the practice by which it will only be male candidates. Not only because of the structure of health employees, but also because of constitutional provisions on equality, I say again, genders and constitutional provisions prohibiting discrimination on a gender basis. It is difficult to assume that out of nine members, not a single member of the National Health Council is and cannot be a woman in a country where more than half the population is women. We have 51% and some women. And in such a situation it is quite clear that both reality and ultimately the usual way of behavior requires that this be reconsidered. I propose, please, that this decision be postponed and that, until further notice, the Minister review his proposal, as well as that the Committee on Selection and Designation further examines this decision and, in fact, determine to what extent it is in line with the Law on Gender Equality and our Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89469	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89470	I would support the idea from another perspective, not from the position of equality of women, but from a theoretical public-health perspective. A national council with no nurse and no doctor can run a national health policy. And that's what the health minister needs to return to this "unobessed" list and put a couple of qualified women on it. It is in favour of the ruling majority that has shown sensitivity to women and public health issues. And you should finally say your "I" to that man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89471	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89472	Thank you very much. I will only briefly support the proposal, i.e. the presentation of my colleague Sobol, because, especially because of a sentence with which she pointed out a large number of students' presence at the Medical Faculty and in this profession. And I mean, not even for some kind of fight for gender equality, but for gender equality in the profession. I think that's the basis. And she would have preferred this proposal if the plea had been postponed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89473	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89474	Thank you. Here's a mandate outside the club to support my previous colleague Sobol and colleague Mata Arlovic. I am absolutely to postpone today's decision for the next session, so for the next 16.5. Because I think the minister himself will be aware of the fact that more than 65% of the students at the Medical School are women. And I have to tell you also respected colleagues that even among these proposed colleagues in the new council, I'd say that in our country we have women who certainly deserved their girls long before they were on this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89475	Thank you. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HSP club also supports the Sobol proposal. And I'm also curious if the minister was so smart he should be here today to explain why they're only male on that list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89477	Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89478	Thank you very much. I also support the presentation of fellow Sobol, but I warn these MPs and MPs who used different reasons which are as justified as the reasons of the profession, so there is a Law on Gender Equality... So there are also very clear provisions that we must adhere to because we have voted them. [[You don't understand.]] By the way, I'd like to remind you once more that you've already given me your word, Mr. President, to delegate one member, preferably member... And that belongs to the SDP, I'd like you to send me finally that candidate of yours so that we can have the quorum. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89479	Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89480	Thank you, Mr. President. Here on behalf of the HSS Club, I would also support this proposal, but not only because of that, but here's why my wife is a specialist doctor, so I have to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89481	And I join these proposals and initiatives to postpone this debate and suggest that the minister take care of and sexual representation if I say so. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89482	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 54th session held on 27 April 2007 unanimously established the Proposal for a Decision to appoint members of the Working Group to prepare the Programme for the Year of Consumer Education in the Republic of Croatia. The members of the working group to prepare the Programme for the Year of Consumer Education in the Republic of Croatia are appointed representatives of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of Mr Krunoslav Markovović and Mr Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-20-0.u89483	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes for, four abstentions, two against, a proposed decision. Those who are restrained are very interesting. Those who were abstentions for them should vote for them. Madam President no more? Thank you very much. One moment, please. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. We're going to a debate. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006 the report was submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on War Veterans and the Committee on Immigration. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Prime Minister, family minister, defender and intergenerational solidarity Jadranka Kosor will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
