ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89446	Moving to point eight. - The proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of two members of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia You accepted the proposal into the boxes. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain this? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Anybody want to hear from you? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and this point will be voted in, probably at 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89447	Proposal for a decision on resolution, appointment of two members of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of two members of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is for members of the Management Board, Pero Lucin and Tomislav Switas, to be resolved for the expiry of the mandate and to be appointed, is proposed to appoint Professor again. Pere Lučina and Dunje Brozović Rončević for a member the same. Please vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89448	Moving to point nine. - The proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency You accepted the proposal into the boxes. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and there will be a vote on this item at 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89449	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. An Ante Dodik shall be authorised on a personal request. Please vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89450	We have - Reports of the mandate-immunity commission The Mandate-Immunity Commission submitted the report. I'm asking the president to take his word for it if he wants to. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89451	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have two reports. The first report is on the request for approval, the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Dr. Zlatko Kramarić, representative at the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a private lawsuit at the 33rd session held on 16 May 2007 in Osijek, which was notified by the President of the Croatian Parliament that a private complaint was brought at the Municipal Court in Osijek, which was held as a party by Dr. Zlatko Kramarić for the crime against honor and reputation of slander committed under Article 200(2). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. How Mr Kramarić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term, a decision approving the launch of a criminal proceedings against lawmakers can only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 23(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 23(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Municipal Court in Osijek informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Dr Zlatko Kramaric's representative. After the debate, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide during the term of office. The authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against agent Zlatko Kramaric shall be suspended following the private suit of prosecutor Darko Markovic of Osijek for the crime against honor and reputation of the slander committed under Article 200(2). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation. The Commission took the view that the application for the initiation of criminal proceedings for the offences of slanders and insults to MPs would not take away parliamentary immunity, and that it should not be granted the initiation of criminal proceedings against Dr Zlatko Kramaric's representative for the offences of slander and insults because the proceedings could be initiated after the end of the parliamentary term, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The position of the commission is that the Institute of Immunity established in order to protect the dignity of the representative, not in order to protect the representative as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that might have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for the representative to act as a regular representative, and to influence the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89452	Thank you very much. Give it to me now and then.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89453	So, the second report refers to a request for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Joza Rados, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. At the 33rd session held on 16 May 2007, the Council of the Croatian Parliament informed the municipal court in Klanjec that a private lawsuit had been brought before the Municipal Court in Klanjec, in which representative Jozo Radoš was held as a party for the crime against honor and respect of the slander committed by Article 200(1) and (2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. As Mr Jozo Radoš is a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Municipal Court in Klanjac informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings on private charges against representatives of Joza Rados. After the debate, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide during the term of office. The authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Joza Rados on the private suit of prosecutor Marija Markovic of Zagreb for criminal offences against honor and reputation committed by slander under Article 200(1) and (2) and by an insult provided for in Articles 1 and 2 shall be suspended. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation. Therefore, the Commission has taken the principle of not taking the view that the application to initiate criminal proceedings for the offences of slander and insults to MPs is not taking away parliamentary immunity, and that it is not authorised to initiate criminal proceedings against Joza Radosa for the offences of slander and insults, because the procedure can also be initiated after the end of the parliamentary term, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The position of the Committee is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for the MPs to act on a regular basis and affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89454	Thank you, dear fellow Sesvetchan. I'm opening a hearing on both reports. A colleague of Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89455	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have heard the position of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but I think it would always be good to hear the representatives who think about it in future on such occasions. Because I know that Mr. Kramaric told me that he would be willing to remove his immunity. It means that we would suggest the commission in future in such and similar situations. We know that the Commission's view is that in situations like this, they are opposed to removing immunity, and I can support it as such and accept it. But I think we should go to that variant, if I'm an agent who wants his immunity for that sort of thing removed, then that the decision-making committee has it in mind and eventually comes to terms with the MPs themselves, given what they themselves want. So, so maybe we could get a little newspaper into these situations, because Kramaric told me and Letica that he was in favour of removing his immunity. Now, unfortunately, we won't hear from him, and he's here. Yeah. So it's not like I'm saying something that he committed a crime. No, but to always hear in such situations and to help a colleague because we know what the situation is, how we are treated in the media, how we are thought not to do many different situations and others, and then always speculates on what the purpose of immunity is. We also had a case of fellow Glavas and everything else. We know the situation with immunity in some other countries that he doesn't strip at all. We know there's a secret vote in others. So, there are different situations, but I suggest that in the future if you agree that in such and similar situations we hear colleagues who do not insist that colleagues are now protected by this parliamentary immunity, and perhaps it is quite different, there may be situations when criminal charges are filed especially when they are, when they are, in private cases. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89456	Yes, only with us is the view that it is not a personal right of counsel, and it can be drawn from the Constitution. It is Parliament's right to protect MPs from shagging so that they can do their part of the job, and, of course, after the term of office, everyone can start the proceedings. But since you called earlier than your colleague Kramaric answered, we will certainly give the word of a colleague, Kramaric, mentioned in this report. Here's a colleague of Kramaric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You gave that constitutional explanation to the Institute of Immunities, but I really wouldn't want to be any different from any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I always think that actually immunity here should protect me because of those words that I said for nothing more and nothing less. But since this is exactly what the good part of the Croatian public is looking at, there is no doubt left. I was sued by a certain Darko Markovic for saying at a press conference that the man was a false liberal, and then became a false rightist, and that after the next elections, we would see what it would be. I really don't see any insult in it, slander. I allow it to seem that way to him, but the fact that he was a liberal has now become a member of the HSP, and apparently that political biography is a lot worse and we can expect some new contribution to political life in the city of Osijek. I'm sad about that, too. I don't, I really don't, I can deal with that fact, I can do it in court again. In the meantime, I have come to new knowledge that Mr. Glavas has not removed him from the post of Director of Osijek Airport because of liberalism but because of certain financial malversions. But he did, so he took advantage of it skillfully, so HSP colleagues took it into their ranks. Now who knows how long it'll take. But that's why I'm saying that I really don't see that this incriminating sentence of mine that someone can go from liberalism to right, now it seems very much like it's very similar disciplines like jumping up and going further. I'm willing to face it in court and I really don't need immunity to prove in court that's what I said about man changing political... And nothing more, nothing less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would really ask you, even though Parliament gives me the right not to defamation because of the slander, I would ask that immunity be lifted from me that I, as well as other citizens in the court, can defend my honor and my political views. These are political attitudes that are quite random to one person, and they are more actually talking about phenomena in Croatia than I now have something against Mr Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89458	All right. We now understand the interest of fellow Kovacevic in this debate. We don't just know for what purpose. We don't have any more charges to discuss. We're closing the debate. And we'll vote on this wheel at 13 o'clock. Now I'm setting up a session interruption. At 13 o'clock, we'll proceed with the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-01-0.u89459	Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in a request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Joza Radoša of the Croatian Parliament's representative. In accordance with the Commission's proposal, the motion for a decision during the term of office is denied for the initiation of criminal proceedings against agent Joza Rados in this matter and therefore, according to the private complaint by Marija Markovic, for criminal offences and libel. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion, a proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission. The result? With 87 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, 2 against the proposed decision. I'm asking for special attention now because it's one delicate thing. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zlatko Kramarić of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the Commission's proposal, I am voting on a motion for a decision which, during the term of the parliamentary term, is denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Zlatko Kramaric on the private case of Darko Markovic for the crime of slander, etc. I am voting on that motion for a decision. Where's Mr. Representative Kramarić? They won't hand him over, hand him over to the court, so... The result? With 86 votes in favour and one abstention and 6 against the proposed conclusion. The voting list is exhausted, empty. Other things that have not been voted on as examples of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Seat of Courts and Infringement Courts, when conditions are met, when they are acquired. I'm closing this session on the 25th. The next one will be scheduled for June 4th, most likely for June 13th with a conclusion on July 13th.
