ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83012	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Let me therefore present to you the Interpelition on the Government's responsibilities for the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia because of the deviation from the Government's policy established by the Government of Croatia's 2003-2007 programme. Let me also express my satisfaction that this debate is attended by the Minister of Economy. We could say a third man who has so far been missing in activities to launch rescue initiatives or to improve the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia. Because all these past years, both unions and employers, and I, as a congressman, have asked to meet. To meet a tripartite body and bring a development plan, a rescue plan for the shoe industry as it was, as it was in some other countries. Unfortunately, that hasn't been achieved yet, but I hope so, at least if nothing else today is the first step in that direction. We therefore proposed this interpretation dissatisfied with the achievements that this government itself has set in its plan and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office from 2003 to 2007. So what's in that plan and what's important for these branches of our economy? The programme therefore states as a first priority that the government will make constant efforts and propose full legal and other solutions to ensure an optimal atmosphere for the development of the economy and society under stable and predictable conditions. The main task of the government and leading political factors is to restore the stability of social life to all and ensure that domestic and foreign entrepreneurs predictability of the system, thus ensuring reliability and planning. Also under point 5, "The government will create conditions for increasing gross domestic product. The government plan will develop incentives measures and other instruments that would increase the overall dynamics of production, reduce unemployment and increase living standards. Stimulating all forms of entrepreneurship will increase exports, boost the development of regions and the strategic sectors of the economy. To increase the competitiveness of the domestic product, maintain the stability of the national currency, and that the government believes that increasing domestic production must become the country's new encouraging national idea of leadership in the period ahead." Here's a finished quote. In our opinion, unfortunately these outlined priorities do not come true, and this is particularly true for the textile and shoe industry in the Republic of Croatia. This is also recognised by the Government in its report on this Interpellation when it states: "In the period 2000-2005, the processing industry is growing continuously until the same period of textile and co-operable industries have recorded a constant decline." The report also states: "Because the process of restructuring and development of these branches is a long and complex process until now implemented measures and activities have not achieved enough results for the comprehensive restructuring and concreteity of the Croatian textile and shoe industry on the market." The government itself confirms that in this past period it has not taken measures to help the recovery, the further growth of textile and footwear industries. Unfortunately, this affected certain economic parameters related to these branches of industry. What about the export? In 2003, the textile branch had exports of about 4 and a half billion kuna, which accounted for 11.1% of total Croatian exports. The shoes and skin therefore had a billion-dollar and 100 million kuna exports or 2.9% of total exports. So there's about 14% of total exports there somewhere, so total exports. In 2004, we already have a fall. Textile exports are 4 billion and 300 or 9%, shoes a billion and 800, millions or 2.2%. In 2005, exports of textiles were below 4 billion. 3 billion 877 million or 7.4%. Exports to the shoe industry a billion and 58 million kuna, or it fell to 2%. What about the industrial production index? If our orientation is 2000, if our index is 100 in 2000, then we have data that in 1995 the industrial production index was 127.7. And in 2005, the industrial production index is 70. For footwear, the industrial production index compared to 2000 is 75. So it's about reducing the production index and it's a trend that's continued and that's in constant decline. As for employment in 2000, a total of 44 000 people were employed in the textile system. 2001. 41 grand, 2002. 42,000, 2003. 40,000, 2004. 37 thousand 762, and now that number is somewhere around 35 grand. So we see that there's a big problem with that, too. Especially worrying is the data regarding average net wages. The latest data tells us, for example. that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia in November 2006, in the Republic of Croatia was net salary of 4000 883 kuna. In textile production is 2 thousand 829, clothing production 2 thousand 438, in skin processing 2 thousand 467. That's what I'm saying. It's about the average salary. The average includes both salaries and managers and management while the salaries of workers and workers working in these systems are going somewhere around 2 to 2 and a half thousand kuna for full-time, for working hours, therefore, under the norm, for working hours and nights, which are often done on Saturdays and Sundays. I think it is a shame that we must hear it today in the Croatian Parliament and that we all have obligations and obligations, primarily a moral obligation, to do so as soon as possible and to change. So from this data, we saw that the textile and footwear industry, that they are highly export-oriented industries, and that branches that 90% of their capacity are employed in export jobs, are mostly in the processing business. In recent years, however, their production has been exposed to strong competition from countries in the Far East, with which low prices are becoming increasingly difficult to deal with both domestic and foreign markets. In addition to the rest, Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the state is obliged to encourage economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and to take care of the economic development of all its regions. We think, therefore, that this is also not the case, that the same balance is disrupted. In 2005, 38 thousand workers were employed in the textile industry. In most women, as many as 80% of them are employed in 6 counties of northwestern Croatia. There is the highest concentration, but it is almost no county or no county in the Republic of Croatia where there is no or where, unfortunately, no textile and footwear industry has been developed. From Imotski, Rijeka, Karlovac, Vukovar, Osijek, etc. Unfortunately, many of these companies have failed, stopped producing, and it is up to us to try to preserve what is left. Let me just say a few words about this fact that in this industry, therefore, over 80% of women are employed. Here's today on the news, I also heard on HTV that women, employees of the American commercial company Wallmarket, are going to sue the same firm because they are being discriminated against for getting low wages and for not being able to advance. I think our workers in the textile-producer industry have the right to sue both the company and the state in order to exercise their rights of equality. For example, which is an example. It happens with incentives. During the past few years, the state allocated 20 million kuna last year to help the textile and shoe industry. 20 million kuna. At the same time, the shipbuilding industry was receiving 500 to 600 million and we now hear, therefore, that it is going into restructuring, to be rehabilitated with some 6 to 7 billion kunas. Just to point out that we, regional parties, are not to help any branch of industry. We need to help shipbuilding, help and shop furniture, but we need to help both textiles and clothes. So, that all have the same treatment. Now, if we were to split the funds, so for the incentives of the number of employees in these branches, for example, this could also serve as a fact of thought. In 2006, textiles and cobblers received 20 million kunas. If we split it by employee to 38 thousand kuna, that would be an incentive with 526 kuna per employee. They have received 500 million kuna in shipbuilding since 2006. If we split it by 12 grand per worker, the incentives would be 41 thousand kuna. Here, let's think about this. Allow me, therefore, as well as the president of the IMF to warn me of the situation in Međimurje County because Međimurje County is the county that is most endangered, therefore, with possible problems in these branches of industry. So, especially difficult is the situation in Međimurje County where in 2005, out of 22,000 employees of them 5 thousand 150 or 23% or each fourth was employed in the textile and shoe industry. Workers' salaries in these activities amounted to 50% of the average salaries in the country. The average net salary in the textile industry was 2 thousand 437 kuna, and in the obaque thousand 963 kuna. As a result, the structure of the Međimurje economy is such that practically every fourth employee works in the textile and footwear industry. This is a burning problem for which we must find economic strength and political will. Otherwise, there will be a situation in which different obligations will go beyond the possibility of companies and endanger their business. The unions warn that we have a year, a year and a half, so we try to do something or it'll be too late. Therefore, there is no need to mention the disastrous social consequences of these branches of industry, especially for this part of Croatia. But the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown sufficient interest in the textile and footwear activities so far in our opinion. On the contrary, its relationship could be assessed incomprehensibly wrong and irresponsible, unlike some other industrial branches, which I have illustrated with certain examples, to which the state gives stronger support. Like. the shipbuilding which employs a significantly smaller number of workers or individual agricultural companies, or the wood industry which annually receives 200 million kuna of grants, so the textile and footwear industries are left to themselves, as contrary to the constitutional obligations of the State referred to in Article 49 to provide all entrepreneurs with one legal position on the market. Representatives of these branches warn that given the current situation, it is impossible to continue operations without urgent State aid and support. They also highlight examples of some countries whose state intervention allows for the survival of these industrial branches, we primarily think of Belgium. So, for example, it is. Belgium has invested 2 billion euros in the recovery of the textile industry, and the result of such a decision that the Belgian textile industry today has 50,000 employees. So I have warned myself several times about this problem, I have sent an open letter to the Prime Minister, so I have sent a letter to the Minister to arrange a meeting with the employers' unions. Unfortunately, there was nothing so far. What is important here is to point out that the social partners in these industries, meaning the trade union of textiles, shoes, leather, tires of Croatia, and also with the cooperation of the employers' associations from these branches, have already made a number of efforts to promote change in order to increase competitiveness in a way that is a precedent and a positive example of how social dialogue can be used as a process of creating the knowledge needed by industries to advance all their market positions. The textiles union of shoes, leather, tires of Croatian in these activities also included experts from Belgium and organised several professional gatherings on the subject of restructuring that were well visited by employers and their associations. Social actors built a strategy for the development of textiles and footwear industries in 2003, so there has been a strategy that has existed since 2003, which has been on the benches of several ministers, unfortunately nothing since the strategy. The government thus announces that it will make its own strategy, but I don't think it will differ significantly from this strategy, and we've lost valuable time. The social partners also concluded a contract on selective social dialogue and strategic partnership on 1 December 2005. The contract was signed by Mrs. Marija Šutina, representative of the association of employers of the textile and leather footwear industry of Croatia and Mr. Josip Zidanić on behalf of the trade union of textiles shoes, leather, rubber Croatian. Here, as you can see, is one signature missing. Why isn't he here? So this contract is the first contract of such a kind not only of Croatian, in Croatia but also beyond its borders. But here's what we've been doing with the analysis, so now we see what we're offering in this interpretation. So we offer certain conclusions that we think that if adopted that, in the short term, it will change the policy and attitude towards the textile and shoe industry, preserve jobs, increase exports whether or not, in the end, increase the salaries of those working in the system. So, the applicants suggest 8 points, and it is therefore important to us, in addition to whether this interpretation will be accepted or not by the majority, that at least some of these points be found in the Government's programme and that the Government applies them. The first point for which we propose to introduce is to resuscitate the textile and footwear branches in the Republic of Croatia from the state budget according to the solutions that have been applied in Belgium and as they apply in Croatia as well. The state budget and now the shipbuilding is being rescheduled. So there are no exceptions why it wouldn't be according to both textiles and clothing. We are for the recovery of our entire industry because we think that there is also a Croatian potential for faster and better quality and faster development. What's important about this Belgian plan? Well, the important thing is that in Belgium both governments and trade unions and employers agreed that within five years certain measures would try to save the Belgian textile and shoe industry. That's what happens with them. What were the main objectives, therefore, of their concepts? Consolidate employment, develop sales of products of the Belgian textile industry, reduce costs, improve the Belgian image, etc., but I will only read the main points of the decision on a five-year programme for textiles and confection approved in 1980. 1st point, I will read it, the government and the social partners in the textile industry and the confection decided on a round table to give maximum support to everyone in their area of national efforts to strengthen and improve the textile sector. They have declared some kind of elemental disaster for the sector. As a result, the round table approves a five-year programme for the restructuring of the Belgian textile industry and for the confectionery presented on behalf of the government on the round table by the Minister of Economic Affairs. This is now about the main objectives, the main criteria, which the Belgian government will apply to the international plan, which will therefore be done at national level, which is primarily about financing, preparing the financial part of the plan, the commercial part of the plan, social assistance, general measures, financing and the contribution of other parties interested in this programme, but there may be more words about this later. Point 2 of the negotiations should seek and request the European Union for a transitional period for the implementation of measures for the recovery of these industries. We don't know if it's done. It recognises exporters by stimulating recognised annual inflation at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and at the height of their own invoiced realization. Simulations shall be recognised by the basis of the attached documentation for the last three business years. Fourth. Selectively access the benefits of foreign investors who do not operate according to the organisational social responsibility model because foreign investors in a large number of cases do not bring new knowledge and technology at all, but in Croatia do complementary jobs, so they are not unfair competition to domestic producers, since they often reach for violations of workers' and trade union rights by increasing the costs of Croatian taxpayers to work in inspection, courts and other institutions with whom the rights of employees should be protected. Fifth. Return the legal provision under which the HZZ carries the costs of sick leave that lasts more than 30 days. So we know that most employees are women. Excessive imports of low quality textile and footwear products in Croatia should also be prohibited and customers in Croatia should not be allowed to access a product that does not follow the declaration of quality and health implications of the product or any of its ingredients. Seven. Recognise the tax cost of those costs that Croatian producers take to introduce a quality management system to educate management and improve the skills and skills of employees. Eight. Trade companies under which there are claims due to unpaid taxes and contributions to reprogramme these commitments for a maximum period of three years in which the Government, in which the time of work of the administration of these companies, should be supervised by representatives appointed by the Government. In our opinion, this measure would allow for an exit from the crisis and continuity with the existence of most existing companies dealing with textiles and footwear. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have presented this interpretation of ours and I invite you, so first of all, to engage in the debate. And secondly, to support this interpretation of ours, to strengthen the demands of all those who work in textiles and put on to reverse the situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83013	Thank you. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelić, explains the government's report on impelation. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83014	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's all I welcome, especially to the gallery representatives of the textiles, leather and footwear unions that I've been working with for three years, and which are their words, for the first time since this government came to its resolute ministry and in this government, saw a partner who really wants to and tried to solve the difficulties that exist in the textile industry. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not find a basis for interpreting the government's responsibilities for the state of play in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia, which we have heard on behalf of a group of parliamentary representatives now, precisely because this government and the basis of its programme for the term of office, the four-year term period and the basis of all the strategic documents that have been produced or produced has made it very clear that it wants to encourage economic development in Croatia, which is based among other things on strengthening industry, industrial production and an important segment in the industrial production of the Republic of Croatia, is certainly a textile, leather, footwear industry. Therefore, about production, industry has often been brought forward by the government and I as a resolute minister, and, a lot of the laws that touch production, promotion of production, investments in production have been made precisely with the goal and with the desire to strengthen our industry, industrial production that the process we had until 1995, which is deindustrialisation in Croatia, to reverse it with a stronger one I will not say re-industrization because it may be a small and non-useable expression. Rather, I would say by restoring and developing the industry in Croatia as a cornerstone of economic development, as a basis for creating new jobs, and that is what we all clearly want. Therefore, if we are looking at the strategic documents that the Croatian Government has adopted so far and if we are talking about a programme for the term of office and on the basis and guidelines of this programme, then one strategic document that the Government adopted last year is a strategic framework for development in 2006, 2013 which regulates the fundamental principles and general objectives of economic policy in the Republic of Croatia, clearly starting with the importance of the processing industry in the overall Croatian economy. So 20% of gross domestic product and 26% of total employment is the processing industry in the total Croatian economy. That's why what I'm telling you is important. All the measures that have been taken, which are being done and which will be done to restore it, are preserved in that part it has, restored and developed exactly the industry, industrial production in the Republic of Croatia. Textile and footwear industries are one of the most important economic branches, economic activities when we talk about industrial production, textile and leather and footwear industries are important when we watch and participate in gross domestic production 1%. 1.1%) This is twice as much in Croatia for the participation of textiles in GDP as it is in the European Union, in countries of the European Union where it is about 0.6%. When we look at and participate in employment, it is certainly a very significant textile, leather, shoe industry with over 33,000 employees is a very important sector. And that is why all the measures the ministry is taking, which the government is taking and aimed at how to preserve these jobs, how to create conditions for the textile industry to survive. I've always spoken and that's what I mean to everyone well known as I won't sleep with some predecessors of my own or the previous government but some have spoken in Croatia textiles there's no chance, textiles should be forgotten, we can't compete. That's not true. Textile is neither to be desired nor to forget all those jobs that are in textiles, leather and clothing, but it is clear that a number of concrete measures and programmes should be taken to create competitive companies and companies in that sector and to survive in the markets, the demanding markets of the European Union. First of all, textiles are 90% export, textiles are the most targeted when we look at exports precisely to the area and the European Union market. What is clear also is that when we look at the structure and the types of business that are being done in textiles in Croatia today, then there is too much participation in business, and there is more to it than that. So it's important to make a whole package of measures that will guide our companies to go towards better quality products, according to products that have a brand, which have their brand. According to products that will find their buyer and market. Not according to some mass production and cheap products that Croatia certainly cannot compete especially with countries from the east. What is also important to say when we talk about this government is then the government that first adopted a programme in Croatia and in agreement and talks with social partners and employers and trade unions. A three-year funding programme for support to the textile, leather, shoe industry. The 20 million kuna for the period 2005, 2006 and 2007 is the first time we have been separated to try to help these funds with what they are intended for. They are intended for the development of their own products, for the processing of markets, for new markets, for the adoption of new technologies, for the introduction of quality systems, for the education of staff. So these are the assets that have been shared for two years. This year is the third year of the division of those funds. The information works in 2005 has appeared in the tender 165 companies. The demands were met by 114 and they received funds. In 2006, 138 companies applied and the request met 96 and therefore received incentives. There are also a number of other projects that the Croatian government, the economy as a whole, but this also encourages and helps the textile sector in some way to raise its competitiveness above all and I can say this about projects to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. There are a series of projects and programmes and free funds that are now going to encourage marketing activities, to stimulate production, to introduce new technologies. The development of new products, entrepreneurship education, the development of clusters that this Croatian government has strongly encouraged as one form of association between entrepreneurs to be competitive and reduce costs. And you could have made it easier on the market. And there's the same area where a step was made into textiles. I also want to mention here and say what I think is very important that three clusters are also supported by government funds, so the Ministry of Economy is founded when it comes to textiles, leather and clothing. We have a cluster of Croatian shoes, we have a cluster of Croatian textile industry from Varazdin County. We have a cluster of Croatian employers' associations, also textile industries. So somewhere with a million kunas, these clusters were held and encouraged to form. They will also be clearly monitored by financial means so that these clusters can simply resuscitate. There's also one more thing to say. When we talk about exports and textiles, skin, shoes. So this sector of industrial production and our economy is export-oriented. Then another argument that speaks in favor of not neglecting the sector, which is that in the export offensive, the project that has been presented to all is one of the clusters that we see as a chance for both export-oriented companies and the performance on the other market is just a cluster of textile industry. So the envisaged cluster will therefore be initiated, driven from the position of the Government, chambers of economics, the Association of Employers, the establishment, and not the cluster that happens to the initiative of the entrepreneurs themselves. So we want to think, think and intend to encourage and I would say to enable our textiles to survive in a very demanding market, I repeat that in Croatia, not only is it in the European Union or other markets. A series of measures are clearly taken, the harmonisation of the technical legislation of the regulations, all those that need to be parallel to the clear process of joining the European Union and negotiations, but it is also important that all these rules be adopted which are important for our textiles. When we talk about some strategic documents, then I mentioned a strategic framework for development in 2006-2013. It was also immediately after the adoption of this strategic document that the development strategy of industry or industrial policy was developed for that period by 2012. All the way to the projection by 2015. A material that was made in the second half of last year. Which is now in one debate with chambers, employers who will be discussed with all partners and trade unions and employers through workshops during this month and next month. So the document that contains not only an industrial policy strategy for this next five or seven years, but an integral part of that strategy is also an analysis and strategy of the development of individual sectors of industry in Croatia. Among these sectors is the absolute sector of the textile industry and the leather-buttering industry in Croatia. So these sectoral analyses and projects and measures to be implemented are also in the final design. There will be workshops in the course of this second month. I've also met union partners with that. Material, we delivered it to them and there will be workshops where absolutely everything they have to say will be included in the development of the final strategy for the next period, and so is the strategy that has been initiated and created by the union in 2003, one of the starting bases and materials that will be discussed together with all those that have been made through our economic institutes and colleges and all those who are therefore the profession that should say the same thing. And employers who certainly have to say their own. Therefore, there will be a series of measures and concrete incentives in the development strategy of the textile industry in Croatia to stabilise the situation in the textile industry in the coming years. So she could actually stand on her own feet. Since regional development, measures which are therefore also supporting regional development, development, development and research programmes, technology transfer, innovation promotion, market marks development, education programme, professional training of employees, management, promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So a series of concrete measures. It's a material that will soon be finished. So after all the talks and joint agreement with partners and trade unions and employers. Regardless of these strategic documents, further evidence is that the Croatian government has not ignored the situation in the textile, leather and shoe industry and the measures it has taken to help businesses in the sector in difficulty. So I'm going to mention that, this government is slightly less than 50 or more precisely somewhere around 46 million kunas in our decisions to convert the state's claim into a equity role helped and "Sloki" from Požega and "Slavonia" from Osijek and "Slopi" from Koprivnica. That we are state guarantees, so this government of 6.7 million euros and 50 million kunas to the largest textile, textile sector company that has enabled Varteksu to put the company on its feet. She first achieved one result last year that was not a loss and therefore stabilized, and as much as Vartex means in the textile industry shouldn't say. In addition, we have provided a series of loans for companies that have helped "Trimoto" and "Goricans" from Velika Gorica and... and "Slavonia" and "Slogs" and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also agreed, together with the employers' association, a programme for the rehabilitation of companies that have difficulties, and it is therefore impossible to repay credit to the Croatian Employment Service. The total amount is about 20 million kuna. The restructuring and consolidation programmes are in the final design. Tim... will help but not only the team for all companies, so all companies, companies in Croatia that have difficulties will be one programme of rehabilitation, restructuring, consolidation, so that through concrete measures they can overcome the difficulties they have and continue with the business that will ensure what we all want, which is job stability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is one piece of everything that's been done intensively for three years when it comes to... Put it on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament that all of these reasons be rejected by the Interpellation on the Government's responsibility for the situation in the textile and footwear industry, because this government is the first government to turn to textiles, leather and clothing with concrete measures to help, but also to define strategic documents in the coming years and measures concrete to be taken to improve the situation in the textile, leather and footwear industries. One of these, one of these measures, is certainly what I mentioned, moving from extra-ordinary business to business that means own product, a more quality product. This is why another important project is being prepared that we want to mention here. It's a project of education and application... a system in the textile industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the system in the textile industry, in the clothing leather industry, will ensure the contribution of knowledge from the European Union to design, modeling and construction in a way that will strengthen exactly competitiveness, increase the productivity of all companies in the textile, clothing leather industry. One pilot project is moving these days, and therefore we will implement this project together with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, Croatian exporters, so all those who are very interested in taking concrete measures and such projects that will focus on knowledge, on new technologies, on the design of helping our textiles actually carry out a restructuring that is also related to the type and mode of work that must therefore go further towards its own product, its own design, its own brand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83015	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83016	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister said the government is sending a message that it is in favour of the development of the textile industry. It sends a message through 20 million kuna stimuli. 20 million kuna for the development of an industrial branch is a ridiculous figure. And that's about $4 million amongst other things, so 70% of the amount of support contracts from Brodosplit that have been investigating the police and Interpol for some time now. So we know what kind of message we're sending with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83017	My colleague, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. This is a comment from the government's proposal. Please. The same and respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83018	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Secretary, the whole time he was talking, he's gonna be and he's in preparation, he's in preparation. He's been talking in futur the whole time. This is past tense, not for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83019	And this is also not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Future and the presentation aren't. Now we're opening a debate. SDP club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83020	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports this Interpletion together with the proposed conclusions, and the members of our club are also initiators to discuss this topic. At first, I'll say that we can't take away the impression of this stream of words that the minister gave us, explaining why he didn't accept the Interpellation. And behind all that is left behind this whole story is only a 20 million kuna data that was intended for an industrial branch in the last year that generates 1% of the social gross product and employs 33,000 people and has major problems involving both textiles and shoe industry employers and employees across their trade unions. So they all make more than a government that should be committed to preserving and increasing jobs. Textile and footwear are Croatian traditional activities and industry in many parts of Croatia, especially in this northern part where industrial textile production has started for more than 100 years. So, there's a tradition, there's trained workers who can do quality work in this activity. She's a traditional exporter. It was in the past, it is still today with all the problems that exporters in Croatia have. So maybe this export offensive, which has been announced by at least one piece, will facilitate the problems of this export industry. It's an industry that absorbs most of the female labour force. Today at the Employment Office, we have over 50% of those looking for a job are women. So it's also a valve in which we could reduce the unemployment of women who will also work for low incomes. Obviously, in such labour intensive activities as textiles and footwear wages are not large, but they employ a large number of people. It is not true that this government has only begun to deal with the problem of the textile and shoe industry. We started discussing it right at the Croatian Parliament. In 2002, a well-prepared and well-accepted meeting of the Economic Committee was held by representatives of the textile industry. Based on the conclusions adopted at the time and addressed to the government, the burning problem that was brought forward at the time was market insurance on the domestic market. And the government, together with the representatives of the textile and shoe industry, was making a programme of NAMA recovery in the bankruptcy that should have been taken over by these companies and thus have a normal access to the Croatian market. After the election, nothing happened on this. When I said that employers and workers and trade unions were actively involved, it should be pointed out that it is rare in Croatia. Thus, at the end of 2005, a signed contract on sectoral, social dialogue, a strategic partner between employers and trade unions, i.e. workers, and also in 2003 a strategy for the development of the textiles and footwear industry initiated by the social partners. So, employers and trade unions. It would be good if, at the beginning of the term of office, our government had become involved in solving these problems, not in such a slow conversation at the end of the term of office as to what we would do. In this strategy, I think that both short-term and long-term tasks are well defined. Short-term tasks in these, ever since the strategy was adopted, have been partially achieved. They're harder in the long run, and any delay will actually create new problems. They suggest helping them there, in those parts and segments for which they, as individual companies, are neither financially nor adequately qualified. They suggest establishing a fashion industry cluster, therefore, and thus being jointly funded, but also supported by state and market research and fashion design creation and staff training. In this time of survival, they really don't have enough money to finance it, either. What, though, does the government tell us about the impellation report? All the things the minister said to us in one breath. So, he suggests there is no basis for interpretation, and right behind that, he says the government will adopt a strategy in the first half of 2007, the industrial political strategy of Croatia. At the end of the term, therefore, half a year before the current government's mandate expires, it will come before us with an industrial policy strategy. Croatia has long boasted that with the tourist industrial state, and if we give such importance to the industry then it should be done at the beginning, not at the end of the term of office. However, we have already learned from our government that the most important jobs have been delayed for the rest of the year, and so in the last year the financing of rail transport and some other activities that did not seem to have occurred during this 3 year current term. It is said that the textile industry and the shoe industry are of more important economic activities, and later we hear in the Minister's oral statement that for such a significant activity that the Government wants to support, it provides only 20 million kuna. We are lagging behind economically in the construction and development of economic infrastructure. What should be done if we are to conquer demanding Western markets then the government should primarily organise certain agencies, funds or what we will call them, through which markets would be explored, and help build brands, but also enable them to be educated, it educates the kind of place that we will be able to deal with the challenges of significant and demanding markets outside Croatia. It is precisely domestic entrepreneurs who point out that they have a big problem and a domestic market, and it is only when they find themselves on a foreign market. That's why I think the government is wrong when it refuses this interpretation. It is obvious that in this mandate we will do little to increase industrial production in Croatia. So once again, let me say in the end, in that economic sense, we've done too little in these three years. It is visible from most economic indicators, from employment indicators where the number of employees has minimally increased and where the number of unemployed has minimally decreased. We've come up with a magic number of 300 thousand unemployed and we haven't made a move in almost three years. Therefore, the SDP club will vote to accept this interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83021	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83022	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. A colleague of Zgrebec said that 20 million kuna is the only aid from the Ministry of Economy to the textile and shoe industry, which is incorrect. Only our largest textile industry, Vortex, was granted a guarantee of 80 million kuna, and the minister listed at least 20 other companies that received a guarantee from this Croatian government. This government does not bring strategies to help companies specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83023	The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83024	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support and vote for this interpretation for two reasons. Because of its content, that is the first reason, and the concrete proposals offered in it. And the other reason is a great dissatisfaction with the government that gave in response to the interpretation and what we had heard today from the respected Mr. Minister. In particular, we support the proposals made by the interpreters in those 8 points, so it was not only the finding of the situation but a certain solution was offered, such as the resolution of the textile and footwear branches in the Republic of Croatia from the state budget according to the solutions applied for example in Belgium. Secondly, in negotiations with the European Union to seek, negotiate and negotiate a transitional period for the implementation of measures to resuscitate this industry, which we consider particularly important during the next 10 and 15 years. Thirdly, exporters are recognised through stimulation of recognised annual inflation at the level of the Republic of Croatia and at the height of their own invoiced realization. I also warn of point 5 of their proposal, which speaks of compensation for sick leave, especially because the structure of employees in these activities is more than 70% of women. We make it easy to pass regulations, laws, reduce the rights of employees or transfer them to the burden of employers, not taking care of the situation of a particular branch of our industry, especially where the structure of employees is a woman, and at the same time we are talking about having problems with the birth rate, having problems with great pains, having problems with the employment of women, etc. From the interpretation and so far spoken, it is visible next. In 2005, 38 thousand people were employed in the textiles, leather, rubber, and footwear industry. 80% of these employees are located in 6 Croatian counties. What are these counties where 80% of employees work? Međimurje, Varazdinska, Krapinska, Zagrebačka, Koprivnička, Bjelovarska, if I have calculated correctly. Northwest Croatia was present both today and 10 years ago. In the County of Međimurje, 23% were employed by the textiles and footwear industry, 5 thousand 150 in that year, and there is a structure of employees such that more than 72% are women employed. Salaries in the sector, in textiles of 2 thousand 400 average, in the shoe industry of a thousand 963 kuna. The average salary of employees in the shoe industry is a thousand and 963 kuna. How much is the lowest basis for paying social contributions at this point, gross? 2298 if I'm not mistaken, 2000 298. '96. There were about 65,000 employees in the industry. I repeat, nine years ago, there were 65,000 employees in the industry. Where are those people today? They got fired, either because of bankruptcy, surpluses and all the other imaginary reasons, and where are they today? What is the educational structure of these people? The other day, we were bringing here, discussing the Lifelong Education Act, and we said that the state would provide everyone who wasn't on the market, or working relationship, who were a working person with a life-long learning, requalification, prequalification. In what profession, profession or profession do we intend to study women over the age of 40 who are 20, 22 years of working age in textiles, on such technology as in Croatia today, who has two, three children? If the textiles and the footwear industry continues with this trend and in 5 years, 3 thousand 800 people will be employed there. Do we have a program to acquire new skills for these women who are left out of textiles, skin, tires and plastics to do something else if we can't requalify them? We don't. And this law and this program is for the future. The birthright destruction of textiles and the shoe industry of the 1990s was then the vice-president of the government, Mr. Shkegro. He at least openly said that for him and his government of textiles in Croatia there was no future because it was unnecessary and such an economic and economic policy led. One by one company has failed because they said it will not help textiles because it is a business break, because there is no profit, no export, no profit and that Croatia does not see the strategic interest of preserving the textile industry. Has anything changed since then? State aid to textiles, state guarantees are not money so long as the state does not have to pay instead of the one who got the guarantee. It's not money's help. I've been adding up the amounts Mr. Minister listed, if not 20 million totals, 700 kuna per employee. 700 kuna helps stimulate the recovery of textiles per employee. We have a branch of industry in which the state gives more than 40,000 kuna per worker, but they are not in northwestern Croatia, they are somewhere else and they are dealing with something other than the production of shoes, clothes, dresses, suits, boots and what the Croatian market needs. As for technology in our textile industry, if we were to compare it with that in Europe, then most of it could be put in a technical museum. The competitiveness of the Croatian textile industry depends not on the opening of industrial entrepreneurship zones, but on the purchase of new technology, Mr. Minister. The development of textiles in Croatia depends not only on how much the employers will be educated but on how we behave towards imports, especially those goods which by standards and quality do not meet the conditions for selling anywhere in the far east, but enters Croatia however you want and sells from the market market, in the streets, in front of train stations and bus stations, and no inspection sees it. Containers and textile ships enter Croatia. No one's doing anything, and we have a strategy that prepares for the future. The attitude towards the textile industry of all governments so far is the attitude towards northwestern Croatia. It was the soul of the northwestern Croatian industry. It was the only branch of the industry where women could work and hire and it should be destroyed. We still need to wait 2, 3, 5 years for these 38 thousand employees not to be, because it is not necessary for Croatia, because it is normal in northwestern Croatia. Incentives. The colleagues of the trade union write and warn when it comes to incentives and their division the report in question is incomplete, it does not contain data on how much the funds and for which the purpose has been allocated to any business entity, or whether the supervision of the spending of the allocations has been carried out and what has been established on that particular occasion. The state gave money to who? How much? For what purposes and how was this money spent? Is that someone controlling when the state gives money? The union says no. They write next. It is important to point out, with the number of problems already listed, that our union has requested that at least 50% of the funds be allocated for development. But this criterion is down to only 25%. Why? Why only 25% of the incentive funds to develop and where 75%? Who? For what purposes and who has exercised control, and what is the finding of consumption control and of this church that he received textiles? The government writes in its statement as a measure of the future of cluster development. But in February 2004, this social partner writes to the economy minister that as far as the development strategy of the textiles and footwear industry is concerned, the key is to create a cluster of textile and footwear industries. This was February 2004. So because creating clusters is such a science that so far nothing has been done in this area but only now are we talking about the government doing clusters in textiles or offering employers to create clusters. And let me use another quote of the document. Mr Minister and you mentioned in your introduction the strategic framework for development in 2006 and 2013. Social cohesion and social justice are the title of one chapter, which states among other things, the social responsibility of private companies should be promoted. The state can establish indicative guidelines for allocating the budget for the social responsibility of private corporations and recommend private companies to install them in their plans for socially responsible actions. Trade unions warn you that those who use state incentives so far are acting the opposite of that. That this social cohesion has neither "s" nor "k" and ask what you have done or what you intend to do? Social cohesion, I don't know, Minister, do you know the state of the MTC in Chakovec? 720 employees. A private company, a private corporation bought by a man who came to Međimurje, I don't know where and I don't know whose money and nobody asks him where you got the money, that he bought that company. He said that factories, buildings and land should sell and move to the periphery and point. When your strategy is over, the MTC will no longer be. 720 jobs in Čakovec will no longer be because they are without water, they are without gas, I don't know if their electricity is involved and they only work so hard to live. When "Jelen" Čakovec appears in competitions to deliver shoes to Croatia's forests and Croatian railways for so long the competitions are cancelled until a direct contract is reached and until another bidder is chosen but no "Jelen" Čakovec is chosen. And these are public state-owned companies where the state can influence whose work shoes, work suits, gloves, aprons, boots and helmets will be bought. Therefore, a textile development strategy should be told to state companies that they buy clothing, protective clothing and footwear from what remains in the Croatian industrial area in textiles. If this strategy is the most necessary document that the Government is preparing, I would ask you to complete it in a week, adopt it within a week and that the first firm in which you will apply it will be MTC Čakovec. You'll save 720 jobs. I know that the minister and the government can't run private companies but I invite you to see what's going on there because the strategy for these people can only bring a solution to the cancellation and the stock market and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83025	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83026	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The incorrect allegations by counterpart Lesar that the vice-president of the government of the 1990s said that he said that the textile industry has no chance, that the Croatian government will not support or invest in the textile industry. It's not. It's about the next one. One of the first companies, which is the basis of the Law on the Renaissance of certain companies, entered the programme is the "Dalmatinka" Sinj, who then employed about a thousand 800, 2,000 workers. It's a 1993 law. And I must say that this same company de facto ended the former coalition government by privatizing through bankruptcy. And today, the trading house is unfortunately employing 450 workers, does not fulfil its obligations in terms of taxes, contributions to the state, according to funds or to the town of Sinj, unfortunately neither to municipal societies when it comes to water and de facto becomes today one of the biggest social problems in the town of Sinj, which you have made. And the relationship of the former government was like, and mostly today, it was maximum. On the other hand, what is a branch when it comes to textiles that are fairly subject to major fluctuations, large competition especially when it comes to goods from the Far East that do not meet often nor criteria. And when it comes to exports alone...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83027	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83028	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83029	Second correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83030	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs who said that the past government has adopted a strategy already proposed by cluster development. Yeah, she's proposing cluster development, this government is helping financially... Because the textile industry cluster already exists in Varazdin so you should hear a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what the fellow minister said. And a shoe industry cluster exists. So it's not the same one they bring strategy, others are specifically helping and developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83031	Minister of Economy and Labour Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83032	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's a quick one. I just want to do it one more time. Probably like someone here said it was a stream of my words, so maybe it wasn't a good number. But I don't think it's right to talk about 20 million kunas of support as the only thing the government does or does. I will once again repeat 46 million turned debt to the state into core capital, so practically written off. 40 million support in two years divided, so in 2005, 2006, continued on. 20 million reprogrammed debt to the Croatian Employment Service. A program is being prepared that is likely to go according to this because these companies cannot repay that debt in some way. 26 million loans to companies in difficulty that are highly questionable through the resolution programme, consolidation will likely be the same contribution to getting them on their feet. 100 million for the Vartex guarantees and so on and so on. This is a series of what the government has done, and what it is now preparing and what we want to do for the next 3, 4 or 5 years. For this very period of transition, which was here with the energy policy strategy or the development strategy of the sector that we will present and agree with the European Union. That during that period, recovery measures, restructuring measures, technology investment measures, measures to make those textiles stand on their feet for the next few years. As for Mr. Skegra, I wouldn't comment, but it's tragic that I am from my predecessor, your Mr. Jurcic heard that textiles have no chance in Croatia. It's a tragedy, not if someone said it for ninety-five years. Imports and how well imports can be imported could also be doctored by the past government on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83033	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83034	So I will correct the incorrect assumption that more than 20 million kunas are set aside for development. Because all this that the minister has now listed is not aimed at development but at recovery. So he says, "Requests translated into a founding role and it's written off." It's not true. It's property, so the state's co-owner of the company to that end. So it wasn't written off. And loans, the minister says, are questionable in companies that are in rehab.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83035	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83036	Dear President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, I'll do some shipbuilding parallels. I will clearly welcome the guests to the gallery. Although I'd rather welcome those who work in that branch. But since these people are working on the norm, they don't have time to follow the debate. To begin with, however, much has come to the agenda just to discuss an industrial branch. I'm particularly glad today is about the textile industry. For example, shipbuilding is treated as a textile industry. I come from this space and all the happiness that the Uljanik is the only social enterprise, but all Croatian shipbuilding would stop working within one month. No Oilman would have lasted more than six months without the government's large subsidies. The textile industry, it's true, we're about to start playing the post-mortem march. The cynics would say that their death march, and there the minister was right, played in 2001. But in 3.4 years, the textile industry will be left with nothing but such a memory and the remains of the rest of that industry will be left. In 2001, textiles end with a $37.3m deficit. For 11 months 2006, the deficit is $400 million, by the end of the year 100% of $450 million. In 10 years, we destroyed the primary textile industry. At the end of 2005, there were 37,000 employees in the branch. In November 2006. 35 thousand 152 employees or two thousand less. For these 11 months, it means 11, 2000 less, 2,500 by the end of the year and, compared to 1990, maybe a third of the employees remained in textiles. In shipbuilding, he also directly works with the cooperatives of 17,000 people. Indirectly working 40,000 people like in textiles. Otherwise, the basic capital of shipbuilding is a billion 626 million kuna, and only the obligations to suppliers are 8.5 billion kuna. In shipbuilding, 7 billion kuna must be sucked in for the next 7 years. It'll really go twice as far or it'll all go to hell. In the textile branch, we heard 82% of women. At the level of the textile brand one hour is paid 16.26 kuna. At 13.6 kuna. In the textile industry, 7000 343 workers were employed. In a dress 21 thousand 180. In a leather shoemaker 6000 629. In total, that's 35 thousand 152. Only Boro used to hire 20,000 people. Clearly, there were such conditions and so forth. Exports of textile industry for 11 months 2006. So it's $359 million in clothing. It's $2233 million in textiles. It's $283 million leather. A total of $874 million. Or in the total exports of textiles in 2003, it was represented by 14%. 2004 with 11.2%. 2005. 9.4%, but that wouldn't be a problem if they didn't nominally reduce their production. 2003. 5.6 billion. 2004. 5.4 billion. 2005. 4.9 billion and so on. Imports of textiles $498 million. It's a 407 million dollar clothing industry. Skin and footwear 350. A total of $2,56 million or imports will be more than $450 million than exports in 2006. While shipbuilding only through subsidies withdraws $80 million a year without counting the billions of kunas being brought into us for recovery. So at the 6th month of last year "3. May" received a billion 700 million kuna, "Brodosplit" billion, "Trogir" 620 million kuna, "Kingljevica" 240 million kuna, "Olinik" zero kuna. The textile industry heard we got these 20 million kuna incentives, 40 million kuna support, 40 million kunas were written off. 20 million has been reprogrammed. Twenty-six million kunas are loans. That's 140 million kuna. Apparently, of the 136 companies involved in this distribution, 96 per cent received money illegally, but this is now less important. It is important that the textile industry is not followed by adequate measures. The most money we see from that 20 million went to Vartex. At least there were 8,000 kunas, but not all textiles knew about it. I'm deliberately talking about shipbuilding, or I'm pulling those parallels because I'm coming from Istria, but there's one brand I'd even say even more followed and that's agriculture. Salaries, average in textiles 2827 kuna. That's the average. The 2393 kuna clothing industry. Skin 2369. The average in the country is 4600. He's got subjective weaknesses. For example, I recently read that living at the expense of textile companies in that branch is 42 days. In Ireland for three days. There's a maternity leave there for 45 days in Ireland, he's been here for a year and he has to stay for a year. You can't touch that. By keeping 9 out of 10 babies pregnant for 8 months, and so be it. So it's not Europe, that's what I'm saying, always what we're being served. But the point is elsewhere. What does the Croatian state do for textiles? 20 million kuna incentives is little, 140 million kunas in total is not enough. And yet, this branch exports almost a billion dollars as well as the entire Croatian shipbuilding. If anyone is in favour of the preferential shipbuilding status, then it must be Damir Cain. And I will once again say that I am glad that "Olinik" is the only successful company in Croatia in that branch. But for personal reasons, he has an understanding of textiles. The only solution to save the branch, and imports cannot be limited from Europe higher than the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is to contribute to the textiles industry in half. Someone here mentioned Ireland, there's a VAT of 14%, here is 22%. There is no government that will clearly touch that, but if you want bigger wages in the textiles and survival of that industry then you need that dam, that branch to cut the contributions and see what we're going to do with imports from China. You cannot, or Europe, limit imports from the European Union, because of this agreement, but from China you can. And in that market, Croatia is achieving a deficit of over a billion dollars. To talk about Belgian models and such promotions of the textile industry at the level of inflation, etc. It's clearly unreal to me. Croatia, I mean it's funny, it doesn't mean anything. Croatia has no designer whose name means anything in the world of fashion. And Croatia will not so soon create any Missonia, Amrania, etc. but Croatia will be left without another export industry, and then we are ill-written. The only question is how much longer will we be able to serve these external obligations. And whether the ratio of imports and exports, which means $21.5 billion of imports and $10.3 billion on the other side of the exports, will enable Croatia to find foreign debt payments and to pay the imported goods at any time. I will draw here a small parallel of the County of Istria, Primorje-goranska, Zagreb, i.e. the Croatian average. The County of Istria exports 2 times as much as the Primorje-goranska, which has 100,000 people more than Istria or exports to Istria is a billion Kuna 39 million, in the Primorje-Gorski, only $531 million. Zagreb exports $3 billion 832 million. Croatia 10 billion $376 million, data 2 days old. Imports to Istria are $128 million, coverage 92%. Covering up in the Primorje-Gorski County is 58%. Covering in the City of Zagreb is 30%. In Croatia, export coverage is 48%. And we have to break the illusion in this country that this country can only live on tourism, only from agriculture. Not even Istria can live on tourism, let alone Croatia. In the total income of the County, the Istrian industry is in the first place 33%. Shop 29%, tourism, will not believe, and it is 40% Croatian tourism only 10%. Then construction falls 8.8%, etc., agriculture 2%. Then 40% of employees are related to industry, 15% to tourism, with industrial wages almost 40% higher than tourism, and in the ability to employ engineers, designers, electronics, etc. I don't want to talk. But we what? We won't do anything. To God's NGOs and with clear political ambitions, the hour of those who do not show them along with some media are all ready to question. To them, a company that will carry out 45m euros in a year means nothing to them. But if they didn't have a safe job, it would mean... And the one who doesn't want to admit it to Croatia doesn't want it well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will only go back to the industrial example of Buzet, the last maybe place in Istria, today there are $15,000 per capital of exports and the best example is that even without the sea and without tourism can have 2% unemployment and that labour imports from Slovenia that out of the 50 industrial robots there are located today 20. Let's save the textiles, let's help that brandie. 35,000 people are working on today. In 2000 it worked 44, 2001. 41,700 is even small, it fell rapidly. In 2002, it even increased a little to 42 thousand 300. In 2003 he worked 40 grand there. 2004. 37 762 or in 6 years 10 thousand less employees. If the state gives one kuna to the shipbuilding worker, the industry should give the textiles twice as much. And let's think, if there's no possibility that the reduction in the contributions to textiles won't be possible, that's clear to me, then at the height of 1/3 or 1/4, the payer of the contribution and the branch for pension and health clearly in that amount should go for the subsidy to these companies. And even America couldn't help with the textiles anymore. After who lives who dies. But without it, in two, three years, the deficit of the textile industry will not be $450 million as at the end of 2006, but rather a billion dollars, and that means that Croatian companies will twice as much produce both dress and blouses and shoes as they do today, and that it will then pull behind them and double the employment of what it is today. 1/4, 1/3 return on contributions is 120, 150 million kuna. Someone's gonna say they're coming back today, but it's not like that. And it's possible to keep an exact eye on it, and it should be the same for everything clearly. 15 years ago, textiles hired three times as many workers. There were objective possibilities. Due to the war intervention of aggression on Croatia, these 20,000 people from Bovre have lost their jobs. But I'm also guessing that in these 35,000 people who work here today there's 20, 30% more of those who are on a break job, and the question is, how long are these people going to work in textiles at all? I said, so by the dynamics of 2,000 500, 3,000 workers less in textiles from year to year at the end of the decade there will be no more than 25 thousand people in the industry. I'm watching Mura in Slovenia. With 6,000 employees today, it's 4 grand. They target a thousand 800. Of that number, of those thousands 800 50% will be involved in the sale of knowledge, 50% or 900 people sewing. But they know what they want. We don't know what we want. The whole of Europe is also fighting for the survival of the industry. And that's why it's good to present these Belgian examples. Just boldly brave today trying to do something in that dam. And then what else is happening to us? The church defends the work of small family stores on Sunday, in the season imagine when they can sell something knowing that it will receive its 300 million kuna, but a small craftsman will certainly not make it if it does not work that money that the state will later reroute to others. Well, that's another topic. If nothing comes from what I suggest then really let the state secure as much money as possible but let it be fair in the distribution and send a memo to the addresses of all the textiles to report to the subsidy and to the job as they are employed, let that money be shared. It is clear to the great systems, I don't know, "Vartex", "Rio", "Slavonia" from Osijek, "The Eagle", as it is called, from Požega, "Borova", "Zelinka", where it owns the same presence must propose special measures. I claim that with 120 to 150 million kunas and fair redistribution we can extend the agony of the textile industry. We won't solve the problem, but at least we can ease it. And finally, if we don't do something with the export, then we're going to fail. But another amazing piece of information, yesterday when I was pulling out my data, I came to him. In the end of the war, aggression, Croatia was represented by 0.34% in the territory of EU countries. It was a war year, and in 2001 it was only 0.19%. Today and less. And now really, let's sober up or question how we're going to serve all these obligations the next day and what's going to happen to all of us and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83037	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83038	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain said that the Croatian textile industry has failed for the last 10 years, which is not true. A colleague probably doesn't remember the headlines at the end of the '80s, 8, 9, where "Nick", "Forward", "Wesna" or what the companies were called, the big headlines were "If Gucic doesn't buy us we're ruined". So they failed and then, and how wise that was, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83039	On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83040	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Let me first thank you, therefore, for the clubs that have so far looked back at this interpretation of ours. I thank you for their support, and also for these suggestions, therefore, which they have made. There's the minister, so he listens to everything, so he might use them. What I came forward for was, therefore, the incentive to expose Mr Cain, who spoke about point 6, i.e. the possibility, the inability, the ban or the control of imports. So, in point 6, we envisioned, i.e., that "excessive imports of low-quality textile and footwear products in Croatia should be prohibited" and that there should be no product in Croatia that does not follow the declaration of quality and health implications of the product, or any of its ingredients". So we warn that a clear trade policy needs to be formed urgently, so that would be easy, so it would be feasible. It is also a fact that such excessive imports damage the textile-producer industry because it is allowed to market products on whose non-quality or quality customers know nothing. At least on the harmfulness of the same to their health or on the unworthy working conditions under which they are produced. So we're not into closing the market or spreading some xenophobia, but, for example, on a shoe with carcinogenic glue, that truth has to be declared. As well as the truth on the Croatian manufacturer's shoe that it is more expensive than Chinese because the manufacturer, the Croatian manufacturer uses ecological and health correct glue. The same applies to all other Chinese products because the ingredients in the products are textile footwear industries. The elimination of inappropriateness must cover market sales places as well as those in large distributors' trade chains. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce "let's buy Croatian or let's buy quality" in our opinion has not achieved sufficient customer awareness levels and should continue in the improved version. In addition to quality, the problem is the quantity of imported products in relation to market scales and purchasing power in Croatia, for example. 17 million pairs of shoes imported last year alone, while data on textile products cannot be obtained from competent institutions. It is also a problem to control the missing imports, allowing these products to pass, for example. under humanitarian aid, and then sold in markets and other inappropriate places where control of other sales points is not provided. Here, so this is as far as point 6 is concerned, and I think it's possible to achieve this as soon as possible, in a fast time, and in that way we could also help our textiles and footwearers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83041	Thank you. The HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek and Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83042	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of footwear, textiles and Mr. President. As we have announced, we will talk about textiles and skin, but we want to say that the HSS Club is unhappy, Mr. President, which we have not received for the third year a report from the Government despite promises of road safety. And we want to protest, Mr. President, which you haven't wanted since 2004 to refer to the legal procedure. We have as many as 4 suggestions in the procedure that we want to end the problem of 0.0 promiscuity. Well, you forgot about us, ex-collar wine lovers. I hope this kind of protest will help your conscience work too so that this point comes to the agenda in, during the 25th session of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83043	It's already working, it's already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83044	Yes, but to argue if it's on the agenda, not to enter the Guinness Book of Records. Well, this meeting may become known for entering the Guiness Book of Records because for four years, one item was included in the agenda, and it wasn't discussed. But let us now focus on the problem of cobblers and textiles. I would like to say firstly in front of the HSS club that this is actually the same problem for all those who are in Croatia doing production because Croatia is an import-oriented country. Our development is based on personal consumption and it is based on external debt and therefore the problems of all those who produce the same, of course, textiles and footwear. We have an external debt of 28 billion euros in balance 11 months this year and a year ago we increased the external debt by 3.44 billion euros. That foreign debt growth rate per year was 13.8%. If we look at it that we have over 12,000 billion blockades in FINA and we're looking at 30 thousand people working, it doesn't receive a timely salary, then we know what the problems of those who deal with production are. For now 85.6% of gross social product is burdened by the external long end of last year. In Zagreb, we have more and more world brands of clothing and shoes. The Croatian product is simply suppressed, there are no domestic clothing manufacturers in Zagreb anymore, there are no artisans in Zagreb because they are suppressed by world chains, and before j20, 30 and 10 years ago it was an honor and prestige to have on the feet of craft shoes and it was an honor and prestige to buy a suit at a craftsman's wedding. For 100 years we have a performance called "Golden Needle" which tells us about the tradition of production in Croatia. However, today import goods have flooded the Croatian market, we all know that it is mostly bofl, that it is questionable quality, that there are no instructions for this product, there are no guarantees, we know that it is from neological materials, but the problem Croatia is, we will not agree with the proposal in the interpretation to ban exports, but we will agree if we agree to lay technical barriers to importing bad clothes and bad shoes from the world and Europe. However, there are several important issues to which we have not heard anything in the government's response, namely Minister Vukelic. I'd like to know how many Croatian clothes and shoes for example. is used in shipbuilding? We know it is a work intensive job where we could probably use Croatian shoes and clothes. I'd like to know if the Minister has any idea how many shoes and clothes the police are using, for example. how useful the Croatian Army is and whether we follow tourism through the HBOR if we prefer domestic products in this tourism and even clothes not to talk about sheets and anything else that is in the textile branch. I don't think that we don't have such research, that we don't even have an attempt to make Croatian products in Croatian tourism. If there are any, I'd like the minister to deny me. But this government observes it all passively, it's our biggest problem, it has no solutions to keeping jobs in textiles and clothes, let alone to increase jobs that we could. How these people will retire with this salary average that they have if we know that the 39% average salary is currently in Croatia, that the new pensioners have 20% lower pay even than that. How are those with an average of 600, 700 kuna going to retire and how much will they be? Can these people use for example? The H.I.T. service? Are they interested? No, I don't. The government has set up a service, but of course it's not helping them. Can I join the Croatian export offensive? Well, I can't get involved because the important sector is absolutely safe, but nobody called them, nobody did, nobody suggested they be a locomotive on that export train because they could be. It is generally known that we have a trade deficit in both clothes and clothing, and even in food. In Croatia, we cannot do more food than we import. So what are we going to produce? Are we going to produce planes, rockets and cars, or are we going to produce food, textiles and shoes? The problem, however, is that this sector has no one to follow, or it does not want to. The banking sector is 95% controlled by owners outside, they are interested in monitoring their domestic production, in Croatia we did not set up a bank specialising in producers, which would be specialized in these sectors and they simply have no one to turn to, and from the budget that over 100 billion for help I listened to carefully the minister, the overall textiles and the skin we allocated 0.02%. There's so much about strategic support for textiles and clothing from the government. Today we have a classical communication regarding the Parliament of Government, we have opened the debate, we are talking about problems in the Parliament, and the government says impelation is not necessary. The government will take strategic measures, however, these branches of textiles and clothing no longer have time for a strategy. They want an operation. In his report, however, the government also says what is interesting. Europe is helping the textiles and clothing industry intensively in the process of particularly modernising and structural adaptation and fostering and facilitating the process through horizontal and regional measures, not directly through state support. The Croatian government has given 20 million kuna to the sector, and there are no other horizontal, regional or vertical ones in any way we want to call these measures. The government is responding to the ongoing analysis of the current situation in textiles and clothing as well as their development. So already the sparrows on the branch know what the problems are in clothes and textiles. So we don't need any new analysis. And little children in Croatia know that, and we all know what the situation is. We're oriented on import. I'll tell you the data. '98. For years, we have imported into textiles worth $443 million. Today we're importing $850 million. A double increase in imports in textiles since '98. until 2005. However, exports were in '98. $642 million and he stayed last year at $668 million. We haven't changed anything except the structure, we've got less and less final products in textile exports, and there's more and more business breakdowns. There are a large number of companies in this sector, they are unrelated, they are left to themselves, there is no cooperation, but it allows us a large number of free trade contracts that we have made back 5, 6, 7 years to export to Europe and to the world, but how are we going to export when the footwear in 2005 produced 4 million 363,000 pairs of footwear in Croatia? So we failed to produce a single pair per capita in Croatia. What is the best condition for us is the once large combination of pine trees where more than 10,000 people worked. If we're looking at a table where 10 of the biggest shoe manufacturers is this huge giant Borovo, it's only 9th place. However, can we do anything to stop this fall in employment? '98. There were 12 thousand and 500 people working in the shoe industry. It's not much of a year that's too far away. Today, or last year, six thousand and 600 people worked. We've halved the number of employees in this branch. Obviously, we're going to have to commit to producing rockets and cars like I said because we don't need the shoe sector, we don't need the clothing sector. As of 1 November 2000, exports to Europe may be exported without customs duty and without quantitative restrictions. However, what must we do? We need to focus on this sector, we need to help to get new modern design, we need to help them get out to fairs at home and outside, we need to open up gentlemen of the house of Croatian fashion, help these people to exhibit their product in Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek, which would certainly be bought by Croatian customers, to keep these jobs in the clothing and footwear sector. And what is unusually important is to prevent imports of non-quality goods, set up technical barriers, reprogramme too high obligations that this sector has, part to write off. And think about taxing that sector differently. It is a labour intensive sector that has its own opportunity but in the process of restructuring it must be supported. He hasn't had one by now. If we don't change this urgently, I'm afraid we'll have very, very bad results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83045	Thank you. And the esteemed representative, Željko Sabati, has two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83046	Yeah, that's enough. Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Oh, and those two-and-a-half minutes can be said in a very special way if I mention that I come from Varazdin County and we all know that the Varazdin County had and still has one strong and large "Vartex". Not as of course as it was in the late '80s. Let me remind you all together just how it is both in textiles and dressed in Varazdin County of "Vartex", "Visa", "Vika", the future of Ludbreg... , and "Levisa", Novi Marof, "Ivančica" Ivanec then worked about 19 thousand people and today there are 8 thousand and 100 of them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today we're talking about 25% of the total employees in the area. Indeed, new companies also appear to employ an increasing number of people but are not even close to what they once were. If we look at the employee analysis, it'll still be a negative trend. If we look at the end and the analysis of income and expenditure then we can say that with the overall percentage of income in Varazdin County textiles and skins participate with 26%, that the average number of employees today if we talk about this processing industry participate with 48%. Also, if we look at exports, then we have to say that skin and textiles are involved with even 70% of exports. But if we're looking at average net wages, then we have to be very sad even though we know it's a labour intensive industry. For textiles, at the end of 2005, the average salary was 2 thousand 475 kuna and for footwear 2 thousand 272 kuna. We all know what the average salary is in the Republic of Croatia. And we are constantly saying that the Varazdin County and ultimately Međimurska, Krapina-Zagorski can freely say Koprivnica-Križevačka are in line at the very bottom of the income. And also, if I look back as one of the signatories of this interpretation, it was really just my desire to start a debate here, in this high house, not to make this obvious some kind of alibi for who makes it more or less. Well, something's done, nobody's saying it. But if that's enough, let's open up a debate about it. I say that's not enough. And that's why we'd like to motivate the government to launch certain other projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83047	Thank you. At 11 and 17, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83048	... But I'll support her, I'll support her. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83049	You have to watch this one to fit your head so it's not too big or too small a hat, too small a head or a hat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83050	This is for the XXL, it could be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83052	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues and honored gentlemen at the gallery. If I'm not mistaken here, we were doing a text a few months ago when our colleagues from the HSS were, we suggested that our Household Protection Act not only protect but also promote domestic production, so I was just asking the question that each of us is being tested for what is on it? So then we found out that we're actually wearing these mostly... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I was honest and I said that I don't really remember that "Galeb" Omis or what it was called "Hope Dimic". Now it's all actually "Schossel" or some "La Costa"...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83053	It's not "Wartex" here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83054	Okay. Well done. But the question is, how do you get to Siscia or Vortex? But good. But this is really how we have to... Yeah, those are the best shirts, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But here, it's a subject actually a fact that we're actually guilty of. No one can forbid us to buy homemade but apparently this aggression of these foreign clothing items is... trendy and then you have to be very careful because I see that there are people with us who are very careful about how people and citizens in the Republic of Croatia dress, so between themselves and politicians, and then you'd make a very big foul if you really wore them, probably these panties or underpants "Galeb" Omis and not something else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's our reality. As is our reality that both the Government and Parliament should, in fact, take care of this even development of Croatia. It is something that is actually in some way and by definition is thought to be this tall home here, we come from all over, all the regions of the Republic of Croatia and we must really get here, we have the legitimate right to really fight, we have a visible whole but also all those problems that are related to our space to articulate it and to ask that the Government intervenes and that it is actually trying to solve these, and problems that are certainly not invented but are real. The more we know ourselves, the more we encourage one industry to, then, one branch of industry that we will, in fact, be in danger of promoting even an unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia. If it actually invests too much in shipbuilding then it certainly appears with full right here, and we do not, we do not have them thank God, do not all the ends of the Republic of Croatia shipbuilding that we must also deal with those branches that exist in our area. And so I would, too, so I don't think there's that request, at the request of these 17 MPs. I'd sign it, too, I think it's legitimate. Let's just talk about one problem that's burning. Which really concerns 40s and more thousands of people, and certainly we can't be satisfied with these trends that have made our colleagues go with this Interpellation. I also come from space, from space, from where I come from, I really have to go back to the 1990s because in Osijek they were really developed whole, there was a well-developed textile industry. But today... when someone asks about "Svilana" then those who were born there in the early 1990s think you're actually talking about "science fiction". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, instead of "Svilane", you will find this "Pevec". When someone asks you where "Lio" is again, those born in the 1990s will fold their shoulders. Today, where there was once this famous, the famous factory "Lio" is today "Kaufland". It's actually all saying what happened in these 15 years more than any word, any of our arguments. So "Pevec", "Kaufland" or not at all, is not, I don't want to advertise them either in a positive or negative way, but these are facts. It's gone. "Tekos," he's probably from the ground, probably not the same. There's something else that works. "Mara," there it is now, I think, I think that "Renault" is being sold, has its own sales salon. "IMK" Slavonia barely lives, vegetates, survives. The same thing once upon a time from the same famous factory is gone. "Foots" and so on and so on. And it's a really painful situation. And it's not easy to defend. But I still agree that we should talk more about the future. But it should be remembered precisely those, these heroic terms of the days when they were not only in Osijek but also in Osijek but in Osijek they were also sparse by people who... decided to enter the privatisation of the textile industry of those individuals in really narrow lines which, brand, are factories that are over 100 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say it was particularly hard for me because it belonged to my youth when I heard a guy show up, looks like, out of the blue, he's fallen and he's going to buy a goat. And he buys a leather. You're asking what his references are? He says he's very good with the then secretary of defense and then the mayor. That was one reference. Normally, the skin is ruined. There's nothing left of her. The guy's missing. You can just put salt, salt on his tail. But the skins, the IMK of Slavonia, Svilane, LIO is gone. And that's something that we really need to talk about when we talk about these things that these, these problems have started really long before and now it's really hard to find out what these are measures that can't be palitative to solve these problems. I have to add this. To make cynicism a bigger Osijek right now has the most modern high-school textile school. In the one, probably bigger, in Croatia, for sure. It was born in the early 1990s and it seems to me that I really don't know, I haven't heard if it exists in Croatia but I believe in that one, both in those rooms and in Hungary... I know there are more modern schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just wondering, in fact, who we're then studying for in that one of the most modern schools in that part of Europe, in that part of Europe when simply that textile industry no longer exists, or to say immediately that then politics has actually found a great solution. So then it's the failure of these, uh, tiny brands, and those traditions, that she's subsidized to offer Bennett in the free zone. Bennett's here. This dirty, dirty industry has been transferred to the eastern Croatian area. Normally, unlike these when they privatized you never at all, they didn't ask us as mayor what you think and what their plans are? No, I didn't find that out. The plans were for hunting to suck and actually to pick up a kamak and actually to keep a large number of people on ice. And then when Bennett came, they were actually looking for convenience. To free them from communal compensation and that some, and yes, and to help them actually exploit those people there. Now almost not every few weeks, you can read that actually, all the problems you face, those workers who almost seem to be coming back to those times when people are out there... movements when they were breaking machines and when almost instead of one modern capitalism with a human character, we actually have the worst use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then it's no wonder, it's no wonder that they're both sick and sick, and all this really trying to eskicipate these work obligations are actually the normal consequence of the situation in the factory and certainly not the hira, the hira of those poor women who have to jump in all kinds of ways, to figure out how to escape from one such situation. Normally now I'm not going to side by side, saying that in the meantime those guys who are... They had nothing to do now, now they're becoming, and in the meantime they've changed a little political orientation, so now they're prone to someone's false regionalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, now they're watering and pharmacies or some other stuff. But mostly I say through it is, through this privatisation of the textile and shoe industry in Osijek and it is such a time that, unfortunately, in other parts of Croatia, strange characters with this political pedigret I say where the acquaintance with the former defence minister and with this mayor was the most important reference that was then normal and ended as it ended. Unfortunately, citizens forget who he was and who bested all of these, all of these unloving events from the beginning, or from... In the 1990s so that today is actually very modern and passes this parole that it is all fault, that it is all central government, government, Zagreb and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's just facts. And once again it turns out that even the memory of someone who is damaged is very fragile and whenever a new messiah appears, then we believe him easily and too easily. However, the HSLS Club will offer some of its proposals, proposals that could be measures to support the healing of the shoe and textile industries. Same as that, uh... refers to the fact that the interpretation concerns this northern, northwest Croatia then is the fact that this textile and shoe industry today employs every fourth working person in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the level of the Republic of Croatia, it is about 40,000 people. And make a billion dollars in gross exports. You see, I have to admit, I was surprised to hear that so much was being accomplished by shipbuilding. This is how it works paradoxically at first glance, but the fact is that this alleged non-profit branch of industry still yields relatively good results. In addition to being very important, this industry has a long tradition, and over 50% of the green field investment is now being realised across these branches. It should really transfer the burden of sickness to HZZO from the employer. Because I'm just saying the main workforce is women, and it's 20 to 35 years old, and normally they're very often forced, I've said for many reasons to use sick leave, and that's what the law allows them to do. On the other hand, women aged 35 to 60 are also on sick leave for some other reasons. But I say mostly 80% of these diseases are shorter than 45 days and directly at the employer's expense. In our opinion, the customs duty on goods imported temporarily for export purposes should then be released. This measure, in our opinion, should put Croatia in a level playing field with the countries in the environment that have become members of the European Union. The exemption from the obligation to pay taxes and contributions from and to pay for two months a year should therefore be borne in mind that these industries have a seasonal character of production and that between the two seasons there is a period of almost a month in which it is impossible to achieve, ensure continued production for full-time working hours, and employers are still obliged to pay the full amount of wages whether or not it is working or not. This measure is aimed at increasing wages in our opinion, and in our knowledge it has been implemented in Spain, Italy and even Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then what is very important is the elimination of unfair competition of the gray market. It means whether we respect our laws or not. It's actually a question of all the questions. So Croatia has these regulations that prohibit products that contain fixed substances. I'm not going to tell them because that's where I say the Minister and the Ministry know a lot better than I do. But what has to be clear is that every importer is obliged to attach when importing certified laboratory certificates that products do not contain prohibited substances, and unfortunately, as far as we hear, no one is asking. These measures will resuscitate unfair competition of summer goods, mainly from the Far East, because materials that do not contain prohibited substances are far more expensive, and Croatian producers cannot obtain them so easily. And when they, when we export to the European Union and America, then we are obliged to submit non-containment certificates to the forbidden substance. That's what you know, unfortunately we had ministers who thought everything could be solved by trade, who was convinced that, he was right there completely that anywhere in the world you could always buy cheaper than with us, any thing. That is indeed not great wisdom. But it's very dangerous when it becomes part of a national strategy. Then import from toys to the end. And indeed, when you walk not only in the summer but in our industrial centers, then you will really see the sea of these cheap shoes coming right from some strange countries and which are really direct competition, and the clothing items that I'm not saying, which are direct competition, are unfair competition precisely for our production. So Croatia has prescribed sanitary conditions for selling shoes and clothing on a small scale. And also, I say these regulations are not to be applied selectively. So this gray market has to be eliminated. And a strategic solution to the problem. Justification of the Faculty of shoe design, clothing and interior. I remember when I visited Vicenza as a city friend of the city of Osijek I visited their factory "Palzilleri" then I was first amazed that UMK Slavonia was about machines that our machines were more modern, but actually there is, but the main point in the "Palzillarija" was just this designer department. We really have been here for how many years we actually don't have any real Croatian designs. Then when we send these people from Palzillerija, the normal Italians are going, they're going towards Turkey, which is now one of the biggest manufacturers of actually clothing in the world and towards China, Singapore. I said first, so why don't we try to make some kind of contact and cooperate with, say, one such sensitive company that's just about technology done but couples to you then they were told that one of those bankruptcy characters told and where I am there, that it was actually an answer that actually prevented any possible co-operation between, say, a brand company and that company that could easily achieve it. Although you should not forget their treph, if you remember those leather coats that were very popular on the eastern market. It means the foundation of the Faculty of Design, Shoes, clothes and interiors. That's the thing I'm saying is that in a way, we should move on to the knowledge economy, and I don't think we're going to miss that either. And exactly this Interpletion is exactly the right way to encourage things and how here in this place in Parliament we really need to discuss it without any hatred and I don't know politics. However, it is the thing that will guarantee this more developed development of the Republic of Croatia and protect one such branch of industry with a long and good tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83055	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83056	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community will not support and accept the Interpelition on the Government's responsibilities for the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia because of the opacity of the government's policy set out in the 2003-2007 mandate, because we do not find the basis for the interpretation of responsibilities. We believe that the Government is aware of the importance but also the problems in the textile and footwear industry are taking a number of measures and activities to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian textile and footwear industry. Over the last few years, long-term trends have continued, which have gradually led to significant changes in the textile and footwear industry and have had a significant impact on their business. The global market continues to process the dislocation of a large part of the resources, mainly of these industrial branches, from developed Western countries to those transitions in Central and Eastern Europe as well as further east to Southeast Asia countries. A series of factors affected the volume of business and reduced the brand. The number of jobs generally decreased. Some foreign markets are increasingly closing down for our companies, and domestic markets have large competition for increasingly smaller businesses, as well as competition with increasingly cheap imports from the Far East. These economic branches... individence problems, lack of quality trained professional staff, gray market convergence, outdated machinery park, high labour costs, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the context of these global trends, the textiles and the cobbler industries are not bypassed, it is higher because of the very high focus on job fractures and lost production lines, but also markets for a very difficult way of reaching the price of incompetence. The Croatian Government has supported a number of interventions in support of programmes that would facilitate and help companies of the textile and footwear industry to make possible changes in production and business in order to become more competitive and find lower on the market for products with a higher added value, i.e. to allow transition from business to business as a whole and to their own collections with a recognizable brand. The aim of this is to network and connect all individual sectoral and other activities with national, county and local levels and to create synergies in support interventions for the restructuring of businesses in this sector. Croatia is a small and open economy that is largely exposed to external influences that have significant effects on the economy. The path we have chosen has been clearly expressed by our desire to join the European Union, and on that path one of us has begun strengthening the market economy with a lower role of the state in the economy and strengthening the private sector and private initiatives. It is important to point out that the state protects the most important strategic economic interests, but in a way that has a minimal impact on the distortion of competition. Nevertheless, the Croatian government has helped textiles, leather and footwear companies in recent years from 2004 to 2007 on the basis of developed restructuring and consolidation programmes, so we have a situation with the government's decision of 9.9.2014. Syllabic and Pozega converted state claim into a equity stake of 4 million 133 thousand kuna. Slavonia Osijek, by the government's decision of 10.11., also turned the state's claim into a equity stake of 14 million 427 thousand kuna. Slogi Koprivnica 20.6.2006 amounting to 27 million 228 thousand kuna. The state guarantees of the day are "Varteksu" as the largest and most significant textile industry, by the government's decision of 23.12.2004 in the total amount according to the Privredska banka Zagreb 2.7m euros, Zagreb Banka Zagreb 3.95m euros and through HABOR 50 million kuna. Day of positive opinions to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for lending to enterprises owned by the majority of state-owned "Trimot" d.d. Imotical 2005. 6.5 million, 2006. 3 million and a half, "Goricanka" Nova Gorica 2006. 900 thousand kuna, "Trimot" Imotski again 2007. 3.2 million kuna, "Meso" Gorican 2006. 3 million kuna, "Slavonia" Osijek 2006 3.3 million kuna, "Slog" Požega 2007. Five million kunas. Especially here, a prominent example of "Vartex" is needed because it is an example of a successfully managed process of restructuring and evidence so capable of managing with a clear vision and strategy can find sufficient internal resources that will strengthen the market position through an optimally set restructuring programme, but also the competitiveness of the company. Trends in reducing the total production of textile industry in the countries of the region and the European Union are taken as a market definition that cannot be realistically expected to change it, and Croatia currently has a double share of the textile industry in the gross social product of the European Union, which is 1.1% in Croatia compared to 0.6% in the European Union. The restructuring process of this industry will take place in accordance with the conditions and restrictions of the European Union market and under the influence of global processes. The objective of restructuring is to strengthen the competitiveness of these industries, to strengthen the competitive position is to see labour productivity rise. This will be achieved by specialising in production, in products of more value added using new technology, innovation, knowledge, professional labour. Production of higher value added demand for innovation, investment in design, research and development of its own product, investment in human capital, education and training of personnel, rapid transfer of knowledge and new technologies, flexibility and reorganisation of working conditions. The competitiveness of the sector also depends on the partnership and co-operation of private and public sector enterprises. This elaborate restructuring plan is a guideline for the textile industry and how to find a way out of the problems that are plagued them today. Each well-prepared reform plan, i.e. individual restructuring plans, will be recognised in this sense and will, to some extent, seek to support allowed measures that will not distort competition as was the case in the Vortex case. Since the promoter referred to certain data from Međimurje County, I will say that these data are indeed such, they are correct. The textile industry in Međimurje has a long tradition and today, despite the demand of the world market and the difficulties on the domestic market, is at the top among export economic branches in the county. Of all segments of the textile industry in Međimurje, there is a primary textile industry in the form of fabric and knitted and posamanteria and similar products and clothing production, i.e. finished made-up textile products including socks and household articles. In general, the textile industry in world terms, and in particular its clothing component, mostly labour intensive activity, is relatively low-accumulated and income-intractive, and this is also the case in Međimurje. As one of the indicators of this situation, the average monthly net salary paid per employee in textile companies is significantly lower than the average monthly net salary paid per employee in the Republic of Croatia. In the shoe industry, which is also a textile work-intense and extremely export-oriented industry in the area of Međimurje County in 2005, 7 companies operated, i.e. if we classify them according to the scale of five small and two medium entrepreneurs. If we compare the results of the business of the obakarska industry and the total međimurje economy, we come up with the fact that in 2005, part of the obakarska industry in the total income of the economy was 1.3%, i.e. total income of HRK 103.8 million. Why did I mention this and agree with the promoter that something needs to be done to resolve this situation? I must say that I am sorry that no one, nor the promoter, nor Mrs. Zgrebec, nor Mr. Lesar, who we all come from the same county, mentioned that just in that county, seeing this situation in the textile and shoe industry was created one project "Restructured textile and footwear industry" which was also the bearer of the project by Međimurje County, companies of the textile and footwear industry, "Redea", Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Institute for Employment of Textiles, Shoes, Skin and Tires of Croatia. The aim of the project is to maintain a series of interventions to facilitate and assist textile industry companies and shoe companies to implement possible changes in production and business in order to become competitive. Network all individual sectoral and other activities and resources from state, county and local environments and create synergies in support interventions for the restructuring of businesses in this sector. The content of this project can be read through support and assistance for the transfer and use of good experiences from the European Union and other regions, abroad, the development of restructuring programmes, the introduction and use of new technologies and management, the launch of innovation, access to markets and promotion, human resources management. And the results expected of this restructuring project are primarily to preserve jobs, increase the share of new products and market realisation, and positive business indicators, increase investment in development, increase their own capital of textile and shoe industries and ensure, maintain and extend the basis for a competitive advantage by applying new technologies. This is all on paper written, but what is important and why I had to mention this is that this programme of the Economic and Social Council of the Međimurje County just yesterday, i.e. yesterday was supported by the National Economic and Social Council and entered as one of the 3 pilot projects in, will be implemented as one of the 3 pilot projects. So, in Istria, Zagreb County and Međimurska County. In the County of Međimurje, this restructuring project has just been adopted in the textile and footwear industry and will be implemented on the basis of a programme that will be provided by the Belgian Government, i.e. the Flandrian Government, in the same way as the promoters here suggest. So I hope that this will be one of the first steps towards finally being in Croatia and on the basis of the strategy that is being completed and which will be adopted in about a month or maybe two months, finally being able to talk and talk about going towards proper restructuring of the textile and footwear industry. Because of all this, as I said at the beginning, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this interpretation because we believe that the Croatian Government fully respects what was stated in its programme between 2003 and 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83057	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary Mr. Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83058	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me look back at these discussions when the representatives' clubs are done with their discussions. First, I thank all, therefore, who have been involved in the debate, and I thank all those who have also made their additional suggestions, therefore, who have helped or will help, therefore, to try to resolve this situation. And I also thank the Croatian Democratic Community Club because we agree in one part of this debate. We agree, therefore, on the causes that have led to this situation, but we do not agree on what measures should be taken on one side and we do not agree that in the past 3.4 years what has been done has been enough, therefore, to help the textile and footwear industry. After these words, therefore, colleagues from Međimurje County who he said about forming a tripartite body in Međimurje County which I support and I think such bodies should also be agreed on at the state level. And I don't see any reason, therefore, that in this direction we don't work at the state level, that they don't sit down, and the union at the state level, and employers and the ministry, and that they don't make such a plan together. Since Mr. Plesa, therefore, said that the main ingredients, the main conclusions, the points of the plan, were exactly what we suggested in the interpretation, I think it would be very good for all of us together, so the HDZ club, to support these conclusions and based on these conclusions, therefore, on the agreement and trade unions of employers and ministries, and we would say, with the help of this Parliament, to make an effective plan. And we all agree, then, that things should change. But, then, I said before that we disagreed with some things. We do not agree in the statement made by the minister, and here's a respected colleague, Plesio, on behalf of HDZ, that over the past three years has worked intensively, therefore, to help the textile and shoe industry. Unfortunately, there, the results tell us otherwise. The results tell us, therefore, to repeat these facts, as regards exports of textiles in 2003 were 4 and a half billion, i.e., that the exports themselves to the total exports of the Republic of Croatia participated with 11.1%), that the shoes participated in exports with 2.9%. In total, therefore, 14% in 2003 of shoes and textiles participated in exports in 2003. In 2005, that stake fell to 9.5%. We are recording a negative downward trend from 2004 to 2005. It is similar in the industrial production index. Compared to 2000, the industrial production index fell from 100 to 70. So the industrial production in textiles fell by 30% and put on 25%. I hope you save a few hats for me too. We also record a constant drop in employment. In 2000, there were 44 thousand employees in this branch, today about 33,000. Therefore, the measures that had been taken over the past few years were ineffective. What does that mean for our country? For example, according to some estimates of 10,000 workers in textiles and working relationship clothes, they bring about 200 million kuna a year to the budget. In the event that this trend continues, i.e. because of the failure to restructure these industries, that they remain unemployed and that for a year they are using a cash refund in case of unemployment, the state should be allocated to these needs of 110 million kuna. So the total effect is to earn 200 million kuna and not lose 110 million kuna, totalling 310 million kuna. In order to achieve this effect, the state is thinking to achieve with 20 million kuna support annually. We don't think that's possible. As for the government's own report, the reports that speak of this interpretation, we therefore estimate that it is what we, on the other hand, cannot accept. So, because, on the one hand, the government does not accept its responsibility for working between 2003 and 2007, and we think that the government is responsible precisely for this data that we have now presented. We also cannot accept this government report because the government does not support any of our conclusions found in this interpretation, does not support the resolution of the textile shoe industry in the Republic of Croatia, does not support the search for a transport period for the implementation of measures to resuscitate these industries, does not support the recognition of exporters of stimulation for exports, does not support selective access to benefits for foreign investors who do not operate according to a model such as in Croatia, does not support a legal provision under which the Croatian Health Insurance Office would bear the costs of living for more than 30 days, does not support the ban or control of excessive imports of low quality textile crafts and footwear products in Croatia. It also does not support recognition as a tax-free cost of the costs that Croatian producers take to implement the system. It does not support the possibility of reprogramming these obligations to trade societies under which there is demand due to unpaid tax and contribution. Therefore, none of our measures are taken by the measures proposed, proposed by the Government in most measures, are measures that must be taken in order to legally regulate our legislation. Certain strategies, industrial strategy, textile and footwear development strategy are proposed. This in one period for a year, two or three, despite what we said at the beginning of the strategy for the development of the clothing and footwear industry has existed since 2003, where both textiles, trade unions and employers worked together. So just now the government is going we could say with this same strategy, here it was said a few months before the elections, and nowhere is there talking about whether, if it's not mentioned, it's not going to increase the grants for shoe and textiles in the Republic of Croatia that we said 20 million kuna a year, we're talking about grants, so we're not talking about guarantees and guarantees that plus those assets get other branches of industry. So our textiles and cobblers are in a very difficult situation, they don't know what tomorrow brings them. In May 2006, in Međimurje, textiles and cobblers had one of the series of meetings where they warned of a difficult situation with them,... textiles and footwear or recovery or controlled shutting down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is up to us to answer that question, and we need to tell people openly if we're going to help them, and we can only help them with the recovery, only with the involvement of larger funds towards these branches, or should we tell them, we also heard this from the other side that it's about controlled shutting down, but then we need to know who's going to take care of the workers. Who's gonna take care of the workers? How they'll retire, etc.? So once again, I invite you to support this interpretation of ours because I say in many things we all agreed together and these measures that are there, so these are the measures that they think will be good. So, these employers and trade unions, but there is no such thing as this third link, the essential link so that these measures can be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83059	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, colleagues and colleagues. If this interpretation were to take place under the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia as the final year of its term of office, most of the claims could be accepted without any remainder. However, with these critical dates, i.e. 2003/2007. No, no, no. I am allowed to say and to claim that the situation with three extremely large companies from these activities, therefore the footwear and textiles are well known to me. Two are from the textile industry "Vuteks" Vukovar and "Iteks" Ilock, and one is from the shoe-gumarska "Borovo" Vukovar, with a possible note that all three were seriously injured during the Homeland War. Only for the introduction "Vuteks" had about a thousand employees until the war, "Itex" about a thousand 200 employees, and "Borovo" 16 thousand in Vukovar, and about 18 thousand in the Republic of Croatia. Other up to 22 thousand in the area of the former state. Something strange happened with Vutex. At the time of our return to those premises in 1997. "Vutex" was working. The government of the Republic of Croatia injected certain funds in "Vutex" in 1997, but it, and was in effect a double payment system, simply disappeared along with a management gust in the direction of the east, towards Belgrade. There was simply no help and "Vutex" was after that slowly, but certainly shut down to finally shut down. This just goes counter to that claim that the government didn't care about the textile industry, because I think, as I recall, the minister was Mr. Porges, and that's exactly what he was involved in, so that's what I said about injecting funds into the Vutex. The Itex was almost shut down, no more than it was, but with certain measures for the last two years it has particularly begun to recover. Of course, it's not as many people as it was before the war, but Itex works. And one more thing, but it's very important. Much was stolen in these factories, destroyed during occupation and continued work was not even a little simple. Borovo is certainly a special story already because of its size, number of employees, huge production all before the war and the most difficult war consequences in every respect. So if we try or divide the past into three parts. The first of the mining integration since 2000 was agreeing to try often successful consolidation of at least some production and it was successful. It was nothing bright, but a certain number of people were employed and paid for their work. The burden was drawn by the trade network and it stands in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as Slovenia. Other sales premises were inaccessible or usurped, and proof of ownership extremely difficult work and what was finally all conditional on this is a chronic lack of funds. Now we come to that crucial moment of care for Borovo, but in 2001. In fact, the Headship of the City of Vukovar then proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia one model of financing and reviving "Borovo". The Borovo was owned by about 3,000 600 apartments of various sizes. The apartments were gradually refurbished and restored. These apartments over the past years, I mean years before the Homeland War, the Borovo built it with its own resources. Maybe not to think about it from some solidarity fund. The government's model of buying these apartments was presented and the funds received to go for the reconstruction of the pine trees, unfortunately the result was a pain in the ass, and there was nothing since the adoption of the proposal. A value which, one approximation that was about DEM 400 million, therefore, German marks, were then still stamps in 10 years to be accepted in such a way, collected. A similar proposal, but for the entire area of Vukovar, he recently proposed in this high house and a respected representative of Mlinarić Pero. "Borovo" was credited, mortgages were extremely unfavourable. Mortgages are placed on assets outside the circle. In addition to the property as it can be said in the wire, Borovo was the owner or is still a large number of properties outside the factory circle. So, off the wire. And right in this field, with these problems, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown great understanding in this term and has begun to solve and address a large part of these problems. And these are major procedures from taking over facilities for public purposes, schools, kindergartens, dormitories and whatnot, of course, with an adequate fair fee. What was the problem with the power supply system in Borov, water? There were huge losses in the net but inside the factory and a lot more, a lot more. The result of these measures is also an attempt to restore the market, restore real estate from the former SFRY area. So speaking of the market here, some days we could read and hear a sign of a slight return to the market of the former Soviet Union, so Russia that was a big, big customer of the pines. I must also point out that "Borovo" is in any case capable of doing shoes, shoes special for both the police and the military, and it does everything with the help and care of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, mainly through the relevant Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, state-owned public enterprises, Croatian electricity, Croatian waters, Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency of the Regional Development Fund and, of course, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It is evident from these examples that the companies concerned are not left to themselves but rather to the contrary. The truth is, there is still much work to be done, and that is exactly what this government is doing. The truth is burdened with the burden of heritage and not with a small burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83061	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm alone in a group of MPs who signed this impelation. And what do you want with this Interpellation now? He wants to be warned first and then help. How can I help you? In the first point of the measures proposed to be taken, it is proposed to provide additional aid to this industry as a model in Belgium. And how much did Belgium invest? 2 billion euros and saved 50,000 jobs. In this response, the government is said to be issuing 20 million kuna and we have 38 thousand jobs in these industries. So, Belgians 2 billion euros for 50,000 jobs and the Croatian government generously 20 million kuna or 3 million euros for 38 thousand jobs. Okay, we're not Belgium. But this is still embarrassingly small. This doesn't mean anything. This isn't any help. This is an absolute zero and what an absolute zero that is, I'm going to show it on one example. Like the Long Resa cotton industry. The City Council and the City Headship of the city of Duga Resa sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia warning that the obligations of the Duga Resa cotton industry, which is in bankruptcy according to the Ministry of Finance for US cotton, are 54 million kuna. So ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to turn that debt into shares or write them off. So, just to resuscitate the Long Resa cotton industry, it takes 54 million kuna and the government generously provides 20 million kuna per year for everyone. For the Long Resa alone, it takes three times as much for the cotton industry. And if the Long Resa cotton industry is not saved in bankruptcy, it hired you in 2002 600 workers and workers, mostly workers, at the end of 2006. 448, and if you don't help her, those 448 will lose their jobs. That's absolutely certain. There's no doubt about it. They end up on the stock market. Thus, with 20 million kunas, no one can be helped. This is about the size of the problem and the relationship between what the government is offering and the need that exists in these industries. Now, let's see how the government reacts? She's the first one to refuse the Interpletion. He refuses to accept the suggestion to help the textiles. What is this impellacy? A suggestion to the government, a warning. Guys, honey, this is about 38 thousand jobs. We cannot leave them alone, for they will not be able to escape. Well, the government refuses such a suggestion by the MPs. He refuses and I say answers the appropriate questions of MP Pavlica, which is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia insists on providing any help to the textile and shoe industry in the Republic of Croatia? The government responds, the Croatian textile industry is not competitive enough on the market. That's the government's answer. Well, the people of God know that ourselves. Well, that's the problem. Well, that's the problem with them not being competitive enough. So we know why they're not competitive enough? Well, because goods come from the Far East of poor quality and cheaply produced. But there's these people who make those goods they work all day for one dollar. That's why this stuff is so cheap. And now instead of solving the problem the government says the textile industry is not competitive, there. What else does the government say? The government says several strategic documents are under way. Among other analyses of the current state of the textile industry. People of God, you're going to do strategies at the end of your term. First, that kind of strategy I hear already exists. But you are now going to record the situation in textiles at the end of your term. Well, the situation in the textile industry hasn't gotten worse in six months. Incidentally. It didn't work even when you became Government. And you had to make strategies in time if you were going to do strategies, and now you had to see results. And not a few months before your term of office, you say you're just in the middle of making a few strategic papers. So you're solving the problem so now you've started some kind of commission. Then the commission will start a subcommittee. This will start a task force. The task force will establish an expert group that will then analyse the problem. All it takes is one investigative commission to determine why it doesn't work? Well, it can't work for you. It's so clear that it doesn't work for you. There will be no results with your commissions. The time for strategy-making and analysis has passed. It's over. That was when you won your term. Look, either the government will now accept this Interpletion and thus accept its responsibility as Government. Responsibility and will help the textile shoe industry or these two branches will fail. There's no dilemma. There's no miracle going on. Nothing. You either want to help or you won't help. If these two industries fail, it means further job losses. This means the drop in exports because they are export-oriented branches. This means reducing GDP growth. The textiles and the cobblers don't need your strategies. They need money. They need the money. They need help, material help to get out in a situation where their competition today is on the market for goods from the Far East cheap and bad. They need a Belgian model, perhaps not two billion euros, but certainly not 20 million kuna a year. Both the textiles and the cobblers should be told openly. By refusing this impelation, the government is telling you we're not helping you think. We don't think so. You're on your own, living as you know. Fall apart as you fail. You're losing your jobs. Yes, Minister Vukelic, it's easy for you to laugh. But I'm asking you if textiles and cobblers are laughing at what you as minister refuse and your entire government refuse to help these people. You refuse to help these people. You're the government, you're responsible for it, you're obliged to do something, and you won't even do it, even if you accept this suggestion by a group of MPs and take the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83063	Thank you. We have the first correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83064	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague Stazic was not in the assembly when we were already correcting the incorrect assumption that this Croatian government gave only 20 million kuna to help the textile and shoe industry. On several occasions, the minister and others cited more than 450 million kunas that were invested in the textile and shoe industry in different ways only in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83065	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83066	The 214th paragraph of the Rules of Procedure has been injured because my esteemed colleague was not correcting my claim but rather the text in the Government’s report on page 3. On page 3, it reads: "The government of the Republic of Croatia has established measures to promote the development and improvement of the situation in the textile and leather-buttering industry of Croatia and to provide for 20 million kuna per year." That's not my quote. That's the government's quote. Don't fix me. Correct them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83067	So article 214 is injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83068	Or 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83069	There isn't or because 14 is talking about telling a reminder. The remarks on whether or not someone corrected the incorrect allegations are as long as this Assembly is in session. [[/Intruder: From 206 to 214. And the spirit of the Rules of Procedure.]] Even longer. Therefore, getting involved in such a thing is inappropriate for me because all or most of them appear to correct an incorrect allegation when they do not correct the incorrect allegation but rather the opinion of this or that, including the Government. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect quote Kruno Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's to correct the incorrect assumption that this government helped with 20 million kunas, which is absolutely incorrect because we heard in what way and how this government helps the textile industry unlike the last government that wrote off the textile industry. Furthermore, it is incorrect that it is too late for strategies. How about it's too late? This is the beginning of the year. Let's remember, the previous government did it on the 11th month, a few days before leaving its strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83071	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83072	Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is colleague Stazic, and you have also touched this answer that Vice-President Jadranka Kosor gave to Mr. Zeljko Pavlic on his question about the state's incentives in the textile and leather-wearing industry. Well, among other things, you read one part where it is said that the Croatian textile industry is not competitive enough on the market. But there's one good-looking thing about it, so I don't know who would explain it to me, and I believe you noticed it, too. There is one finding that is quite strange, but rather silly where it says: For the competitiveness of our textile industry it is also extremely important to include Croatia in pan-European diagonal cumulation of origin. I mean, it's a pretty good-looking formulation. Well, when I tried to translate it into some kind of Croatian language, then it would mean an all-European cross-group of beginnings. So I want to know what it means for us to get into something like that. What would that do to our leather, textiles, rubbers and the rest of them? So here, if you might have some better information on whether you got some information from the vice president or perhaps from the minister to explain to me what this pan-European diagonal cumulation of origin means.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83073	Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83074	Of course I don't know what that means. And I doubt whoever wrote it knows what that means. But that formulation that you said will certainly help the textiles and the leathers just as much as these 20 million kunas per year, which, as you can see, HDZ officials are persistently trying to prove that they are not 20 million but that they are not how many. And the government has written well, well written how much she invests and how much she thinks to invest and how much money she means to help shoe and leather, textile and shoe industry. And we see that he thinks about helping them as well as you've noticed these totally incomprehensible and completely unbulful formulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83075	Replica, Mr. Representative Pacek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83076	Thank you very much. Dear Stazic, so I agree with you that this government should not be concerned with strategy but should deal with the operation in order to help the clothing and footwear sector, because they do not want and do not care about the analysis of the situation, they are looking for a change of condition. I only disagree with you that this government has done nothing for clothes and shoes and that sector. She did, however negatively. That's what I was talking about. We've increased the import by clothing from $443 million to $850 million. And textile exports remained on the same level, 640 and 660 million dollars, respectively. One such government has done something about employment. With 12 thousand and 500 jobs in the shoemaking industry we came to 6 thousand and 600 jobs, so the number of jobs was halved. This government does it, this government does it and that's the result. And that's exactly the kind of results we should talk about in an analysis to change the situation. I am sure that we can change the situation both in exports and in employment, in new employment, and especially in keeping jobs, provided that Croatia is not an import-oriented country, that Croatia is an export-oriented country and that we support people who have a tradition, who have knowledge, energy and desire to work. However, there will be much more to be done so that the results of the government's work in this year would not have an even more unfavourable impact on exports, i.e. on imports to Croatia and on job losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83077	Answer, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83078	And the data you present to your colleague clearly points to the size of the problem and the completely unacceptable attitude of the government towards this problem. But good, good. Come on, they haven't seen the problem, they haven't worked yet. What I find incomprehensible is that when MPs elected by the citizens of this country warn them of the problem, they try to help them solve this problem, when they suggest they accept the conclusion of the 1st resolution of the textile and shoe branches in the Republic of Croatia from the state budget according to the solutions that have been applied in Belgium. That's what we suggest the government accepts. That despite all this, despite the negative trends, despite the fact that day-to-day jobs in these industries are being lost, it refuses. Well, well, if they haven't worked yet. But now that they're invited to do something, we won't, and we won't. Let those jobs get lost, let people stay on the stock market, what do we care? That's what this government says.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83079	Please. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Marijan Mlinarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83080	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives and unions from the neighbouring county. We representatives of the position from Varazdin County were immediately at the beginning of the term of office in 2004 familiar with the major problems of the "Vartex" in which he was found after the past government refused to give him a guarantee for business restructuring loans and then threatened, and then threatened with the program how to save "Vartex" in bankruptcy of about 800 workers, about as much as employed in the MTC. We held a whole series of meetings with representatives of the Vartex Administration and with representatives of the Ministry of the Government who are in charge of this programme and I am quite involved in the problems of the textile industry, so I would like to say a few words about it. The textile industry is an exceptional part of the Croatian economy which currently employs more than 35,000 workers in most women and has significant effects on the national economy. It is important to note that due to the globalisation of the very rapid opening of the market in China, which, with low labour prices, becomes competitive at global level and creates significant negative impacts both in Europe and in the United States. Cheap Chinese products that flood the market were caused by the closure of a series of plants across Europe, and even today there is no real indication how and how to resist such competition at global level. In the context of these global movements, the Croatian textile industry has not been bypassed, but because of its very high orientation at the break of jobs, it has lost production lines, but also markets for a very difficult way of achieving price competitiveness. As a result, there are also very low wages within this economic branch but also increasingly difficult conditions of business and survival on the market of textile sector companies. The overall trend that is present in the textile industry in the world has strayed from the classical textile industry and is positioned towards the fashion industry through the development of different brands, methods of distribution and what ultimately companies in the textile sector can maintain in positive trends and positioning themselves on the market. Croatia is a small and open economy that is largely exposed to external influences, which have significant effects on the economy. The path we have chosen has been clearly expressed by our desire to join the European Union, and on that path one of us has begun strengthening the market economy with a lower role of the state in the economy and strengthening the private sector and private initiatives. It is important to point out that we will seek to protect the most important strategic economic interests, but in a way that has as little impact on the distortion of competition as possible, favouring individual market participants compared to others. This contributes to stronger economic growth and the very improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian government recognises the textile industry as an extremely significant part of the Croatian economy that has a long tradition. In this respect, it supports all initiatives that will lead to the creation of conditions for efficient business in the textile sector. One of the examples by which the guidelines for legal organisation of the market position are recognised is the “Vartex” share company. More than two years ago, Vortex addressed the finance ministry to help the state find a way out of the crisis, which is largely due to global developments and the state of the textile industry in the wider environment. At the end of 2004, the finance ministry approved a state guarantee of more than 80 million kuna "Vartex" in support of the restructuring programme. In the Vortex case, it is important to point out that the management of the Varazdin company had a clear idea of the problems that brought the company into such a situation, and it also had a clear vision of how and how to solve the difficulties they were facing. The "Vartex" developed a restructuring programme that had all the necessary elements such as a clear definition of the cause of the problem, the ways and measures to eliminate the causes that affected business, and measures that would improve business and meet the conditions of long-term sustainable development. The restructuring plan submitted clearly evaluated every single element of the programme and restructuring and contained a timetable of measures in the restructuring process. The restructuring programme included credit reprogramme measures by banks and a new loan. As top creditors, banks have studied the restructuring programme in detail and have approved it in accordance with a joint analysis with the Ministry of Finance. Of all things, and as a prerequisite for obtaining a state guarantee, it thus originated in the state restructuring programme that was adopted by all participants in the restructuring process. In doing so, the Ministry of Finance issued a state guarantee of 80% of the loans granted by the commercial banks and HBOR amounting to 140 million kuna, and as such a guarantee did not constitute unlawful state support and did not favour "Vartex" in relation to other companies in the same branch. This also respects the very rigorous rules of competition policy and the corresponding European Union Directive, which seek to minimise to the greatest extent possible market distortions resulting from favouring one market participant. It is also important to highlight the fact that the management of the "Vartex" clearly recognized the need to move away from business according to the principles of classical textile industry and in business philosophy made a step towards establishing a business concept oriented in the fashion industry. With such a concept, the company seeks to implement a change in the rules of procedure which will result in the strengthening of the market position "Vartex" while creating conditions under which "Vartex" will be less sensitive to external factors, i.e. it will become more competitive on the domestic and foreign market. Today, almost two years after the realisation of state guarantees, the management of "Vartexa" has made significant positive shifts in business, and what is seen first of all if the financial indicators that are transparent and accessible to the public are seen, because "Vartex" is in the quotation on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. For example, data from 1 to 9 months 2006 since the beginning of 2005 have achieved continuous income growth, especially in business units selected as a strategic basis, as in retail 6% increase, wholesale 18%, business tooo business 72%. Since the start of the reformed restructuring programme, a continuous drop in costs has been achieved especially in the operational cost segment and portfolio consolidation. This resulted in a significant reduction of losses and the creation of conditions for the implementation of the restructuring process in the coming years. The efficiency of the restructuring process has also been valorised by investors through demand and the price of shares that monitors the market success of the "Vartex" with a price movement from 45 kuna in early 2005 to 150 kuna in late 2006. The example "Vartexa" is an example of a successfully managed restructuring process and proves that a capable management with a clear vision and strategy can find sufficient internal resources that will strengthen the market position through an optimally set restructuring programme, but also the competitiveness of the company. This is how the way to heal the textile industry is the only way in which the state will be able to recognise positive initiatives that will lead to the consolidation of the textile sector, which will ultimately have a positive impact on the Croatian economy as a whole. As for the interpretation, she would have been good and welcome five years ago when Vortex asked for a guarantee from the last government, but she didn't get it. This government is responsible and helpful and will support all real restructuring programmes for textile and shoe companies. Therefore, this is finally the first government which is concrete and different measures to help the textile and leather-wearing industry, and the results of this assistance are already visible in many companies and I believe that the interpretation has been delayed for at least five years and therefore it needs to be refused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83081	We have seven replicas and one correction of an incorrect quote. The first is the replica of Mr. Nikola Vuljanić. ... the way I'm being contacted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First the replica and then the correction, if the first correction was then will be the first correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've been talking about the visibility of this government all along, the strategy that this government has devised, how this strategy gives good results and how it will deliver even better results in the future. However, Croatia's development strategy is not hot water, nor has the government invented it. The government in which the Minister of Reconstruction and Development was Mr. Jure Radic made up a document called the Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia. I think it was 97. Part of that strategy also concerned textile industries, I am one of the authors of that section that concerned the textile industry. All the problems we're talking about here today are indicated. The problem of China entering the World Trade Organisation in 2000, the abolition of quotas for imports of textile goods into Europe, the problem of new technologies, the problem of brands. That book was promoted, we all got money, a fee for her, we all got thank-yous, and that was the end of that book. Neither the government nor the government ever did anything serious for the textile industry after that. It's not serious to give 20 million, not to give 200 million and cover the current situation, cover the holes in those who can't pay their salaries and pay their contributions. It is serious to do something about the development of this industry, to direct the money that exists in the development of such a textile industry that will be able to survive tomorrow in Europe. This government is definitely not able to do it, it showed not only that she only gave 20 million but also that she gave that 20 million. She gave them unrecognizable, without any smart criteria that she would draw out what she actually wanted to do in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83083	Answer, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83084	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's not true, I say again, that this is the first government to seriously consider the problem of the textile industry, which specifically helps the textile industry. That's what the minister said, that's what some other MPs have said in many, many examples and will continue to do. Each, here, and example "Vartex", every project, every programme that is founded to heal, will be supported by the Croatian government. And no problem, and she's working on that problem seriously first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83085	Replica, Mr. Nikola Ivanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mlinaric, I would like to replicate one of your specific views. Among the different thematics that led you to intonate the debate in terms of rejecting this interpretation, one of the reasons was that your position is in line with the country's definition of going without any ambiguity into the European Union integration processes and going into the processes of the absolute application of the criteria of the European market in Croatia, and given whether this interpretation is likely to offer something else. So I would replicate it with a few thoughts. First of all, Croatia's determination to join the European Union is not a commitment to being a country that imports everything in 10 years. The commitment to go to the European Union is not at the same time the commitment not to produce anything, the commitment to go to the Union is not to sell out everything, starting with what is still worth to us in the industry, until perhaps tomorrow agricultural land or forest and the determination to go to the European Union cannot mean that we cannot do in Croatia what is done in the Member States of the European Union in terms of ensuring conditions for their industry to be competitive. Because regardless of the stories of Asian tigers, the great Chinese and everything else, I believe that Europe will continue to work on ships in the future, to produce textiles, to produce shoes. Because I don't believe that before the Chinese run-in, the Italian shoe industry will disappear even though there are problems now. So since you are, in fact, refusing to interpret, you reject 9 measures that each individual has not ignored in terms of measures that would help that shoe industry on the way to better overcome the difficult years to follow. And it is, in fact, such a refusal and therefore integration into the European Union cannot be something that we all have the right to say when we want to refuse anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83087	Thank you very much, Mr. Mlinaric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83088	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. As far as joining the European Union is concerned, just past the government has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and some of the rules of conduct that this signature requires us to do. And for example "Vartex" we see well that every real program, every real program that leads to the recovery of our company will support this Croatian government. Not with the 20 million you said, but here's to the example of the Vortex with 140 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83089	Replica, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Mlinaric said among other things that the path we have chosen is a path towards the European Union. Yes, I completely agree with my colleague Mlinaric. However, how do you interpret that the textile and footwear industry pays its workers with an average of 50% of the national average of around 2 thousand 400 kuna in the textile industry, and in a cobbler thousand 950 kuna? How do you think that without greater and more serious state aid, supporting these branches will increase production and increase the number of employees in this production? Especially a woman. The example from Labinscina, from where I come from, tells us quite the opposite of what you were saying. At the end of the '90s, textile companies fell apart as far as they knew. May 25th from Rusha to "Tila" from St. Sunday. Hundreds of women were then out of work, and most of them are still at the Employment Bureau today. And we know that they are best trained to work in this very textile industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83091	Answer, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83092	It is well known that the problem of the textile industry does not begin with this government. Here, some of my fellow MPs remember the titles of the '80s of how many hundreds of thousands of textile workers didn't get paid. It has not received salaries since then, let alone now that Europe and the world have opened up to the Chinese market. It is now impossible to make much higher wages in this sector because we know that competitive goods on the European and world markets are so cheap that it is impossible to earn much more. But that doesn't mean that this government isn't going to help all the development projects in the textile and shoe industry that have perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83093	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Mlinaric, you're saying that this interpretation is five years late, and I'm asking how late did the police and the State's Attorney's office go? I agree with you that it started a long time ago, but we know very well why this brand came into these problems. For the simple reason that it is such a dam where there is not a lot of funding and all that was drawn as craftsmanship, the companies were destroyed for the simple reason to get to the real estate, and we know how many shops were all over Croatia and the former Yugoslavia that the textiles had, and these new tycoons took everything just to ruin it. So I ask how late the police and the State's Attorney's office are? And in the '90s when it all started, when at the most difficult moments for Croatia, this industry was going to be great because it was still the biggest exporter and it was a lot of help to Croatia at the time when it was the most needed and then they were getting the broken jobs they were doing, and the moment that our workforce was no longer so cheap we didn't help them, we didn't stimulate them, we didn't go to new brands, we didn't go to new technologies, and it was normal that they were lagging behind and we had to go to this kind of competition collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83095	Answer, Mr. Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83096	Dear fellow MP, I've already given a whole series of these theories of yours in my presentation of the answer. However, we agree, the problem of the textile industry did not begin with this government. First, however, this government is the first to start solving it, seriously solving with the assistance of different species, which is your restructuring project "Vartexa" a clear example and every textile and shoe company that will have a restructuring programme, which will be possible to achieve the help of this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83097	Replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlinarić, you said that the commitment of this government was a reduction of the state's influence on the economy towards the road to Europe and as a successful example of state intervention to help mention "Vartex". Everything you've brought out is probably true and I'm not contesting you, but incompletely. At the Vortex, there's only one addition that the Vortex employees work for 2,000 kuna, then the truth is complete. But as for the fear of the right of the state to intervene in the economy in terms of the path to the European Union, I must simply replicate and tell you the following. The current members of the European Union, who are the founders of the European Union, have maintained the right to intervene in the economy, in sectors which they consider to be of strategic interest. Belgium was mentioned as the latest example. In the '90s, it was Germany that moved 50,000 textiles from textiles somewhere different in the 10 years program. It was known for every calendar year and for every region when how many workers or textile workers would leave these jobs. The applicant gave point 2 of the negotiations with the European Union to request a transitional period for the implementation of the resolution measures of these industries. We appeal to our negotiators that when textiles are on the agenda of Europe we try to explain what problems we are in, what we intend to do for the next 10 years and get the exception of textiles after we become a member of the European Union, because we don't have to, but since then 5, 6 or 10 years of the country's right to intervene in order to preserve the textile base and the shoe industry. It's just that you accept, if that's all the Minister of Economy has accepted that our negotiators are going to ask for it, and they'd make a big deal, but you're refusing to do it, too. You claim that we will not seek that exception in negotiations with Europe. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83099	Mr. Mlinaric's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83100	Comrade Lesar, he is very pretentious about what our negotiators think and how he will negotiate. I think it's very pretentious, it's very pretentious. This Croatian government knows how to negotiate land agricultural, how to talk in shipbuilding, how to talk about textiles and has its negotiators who will absolutely protect our interests, and the government already shows that it protects the interests of both textile and leather-processing companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83101	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Darling Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a large part of his presentation was dedicated to the restructuring of Vortex. It is a commendable attempt by one company to bring in new management and inclusion on the one hand, and on the other hand the state is being resolved. However, all of these are ad hoc measures and the minister was talking here, so you also pointed out what was done, were entered with claims on property, were written off some kind of obligation to the state. These are quite measures that do not give effect or give effect in the short term. We're here to seek long-term measures, so we have one vision of development and the volume of these two productions in 10 years, in 15 years in advance. To make it seem like you have to have good technology, which today industry almost none of them do. You must have knowledge, you must have personnel, you must have in this case a fashion mark with which you will come and be competitive on the demanding market. When you break into that market, then you have bigger exports, you have bigger profits, you have bigger salaries. That's what we're talking about through this interpretation, and we haven't heard it through your exposure, or through this example of "Vartex," or through the presentation of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83103	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83104	Dear fellow MPs, yes, and your government was four years old, and in recent days, she's adopted a strategy that she hasn't done anything about. According to all these statements, this government has already done very much and will continue to make this sector as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83105	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlinarić correctly claimed that this was the first government to specifically assist the textile and shoe industry, but did not actually refer to those who... Interpletion, so I'll do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague correctly said that this government helped in this or that way with concrete funds of 450 million kuna to the textile and shoe industry from 2004 to 2007. During the period when the signatories of this Interpellation and their party were in power, therefore, from 2000 to 2003 it was simply impossible and they did not find themselves, and no kuna was found to be such a kind of aid. That's the facts. Today, those who offer the Interpletion in which they criticise this government for allegedly insufficient help to the textile and shoe industry forget that they have not given a single kuna during their government. They forget the fact that they were asked from the textile and shoe industries to help restructure the textile industry. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] It's a concrete aid to the Vortex. Of course, they didn't want to do it then, and they didn't. It was waiting for this government, the HDZ government, the government of Ivo Sanader, who specifically helped. So admit at least you gave the money specifically, you helped the industry, you helped restructure. Don't criticize us today for what we helped. Say first of all what you did in your term and you didn't do anything to help this industry, and then we can discuss the arguments specifically and not in such a way. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83107	Thank you. We have a correction to Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect that Mr. Mlinaric said the last government didn't help the Vortex. If you don't know, ask the then chairman of the Vortex Supervisory Board d.d., your party colleague and then Mr. Duke. The Croatian government then granted a 50 million kuna loan through the Development and Employment Fund. 33 million kuna was realised. By the way, why was everything late? Because then the Vortex administration didn't do everything it took. Among other things, Croatian textile exporters were to gather in their trade... They place Croatian products, among other things they should be placed on the Vartexa Supervisory Board d.d. a member from which the Government shall appoint. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was late for a respected colleague. And you can't say nothing was done. If you don't know how to check with your party colleague, you'll get it. In addition, the satisfaction of the Vartex administration at the time and members of the Supervisory Board was expressed when the then Minister of Finance Mr. Churchvenac came to visit Vortex. But obviously when something doesn't want to be admitted, it doesn't even want to be remembered.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83109	Thank you very much. I think these replicas have cleared up some things. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83110	Mr. President! I will actually begin my debate from this hat that has a good intensity because as far as I can see, it has been divided by HSS and trying to act preventively to show that one measure of government can endanger another economic branch in Croatia. However, I looked at where the hat was manufactured and it was produced in China. And I asked why they made it in China? Because it's cheaper there. Therefore, when discussing this as there has been a crisis in the textile industry, a social epidemiology model should be applied that any disease is the result of a series of factors whether it is a banal health problem or a serious, fatal health problem. [[Applause.]] First of all, legacy, genetic factors. In this case, a long inheritance that lasts perhaps fifty, sixty-six years, at the very least, the legacy of fifteen years old. Secondly, that it is the consequence of leadership and all guidance, that it is the consequence of the environment in the broadest sense including the manufacturers of this cap and of the buyers of this hat and ourselves and that it is the consequence of the lifestyle in this case of the very behaviour of the textile industry. Ad I tried to do a little test here to see which one of us is wearing Croatian? I was lucky or maybe it was a biased sample because I talked mostly to the villagers, with my colleagues. Sabati has a "Vartex" suit, Ledinski "Nikovo" suit, I am pleasantly surprised Jaksa Marasovic also has a "Vartex" suit. Otherwise Luka Roic wears traditional Rijeka suits but today he accidentally wore a better suit. I traditionally wear Branimir Hundić's suits and I'll talk about it and wear Strugar's shoes. I'm from a tailoring family, as a child I knew very well not only to sew pants but you won't believe a jacket. From the tradition of the dika "Ralace" and its household courses, the textile industry has its own civilization mission along with its economic mission of employment. She encouraged the need for young girls to know how to sew, cook, prepare parents, though a child, at the time it wasn't debated about same-sex communities and marriages, but in any case I'm going to say how this problem should possibly be spoken of. So, when it comes to inheritance, it is of course not to forget either war or war destruction. Nor should one forget the factor that Mr. Kapraljevic spoke of in a windy way today, which he did not have when he spoke calmly, it is wise. If he's not completely captured by the party. One analysis should be made of who is currently located in shops and in textile industry plants. It's a kind of very simple empirical analysis. With a consultation with Liberal Kramaric and the Honorable President of our Parliament, I have established, for example, who is in Osijek. If I remember correctly in the famous Svilani, there's a Pevec store. In a textile giant that produced pillows and mattresses and every devil named "Lio" is "Kaufland". When you entered the World Trade Organization, then Belgium is no longer a good example, and that is why I support the idea of Interpol as an incentive for a constructive debate. However, this kind of debate you, we, our government first begins, Franco, to you, to you, to this government, and to you, Mlinaric. You can't speak this government when it's being destroyed by a series of circumstances. Let's say in 2000, Mr. Linic decided on a bankruptcy strategy. These bankruptcys gave huge opportunities to bankruptcy managers, different types of trade chains appeared, domestic tycoons who saw that the shops were in the elite parts of the city, that the production plants were in the elite parts of the city. And now I'm going back to the oasis of excellence and why do I think Belgium is a bad example and why do I think Thailand is an excellent example? I worked in Asia and I saw Asians accumulate their first industrial abilities and accumulate the ability to European understanding of aesthetics. You know that in Asia few people look different and you can hardly figure out who Joe is and who's Cho. But they understand each other very well. And so they looked at the brands that came from the west. And in the first phase without "copywrite" they imitated perfect, which the textiles will know they have perfect materials. The best silk in the world, they have the best cotton in the world and they should have just accumulated knowledge, and they have huge amounts of labor that are cheap and these are the smaller people who can work 18 hours a day. What is happening in Croatia is some kind of modern forced slave work for these people. Who work in those plants. Who produce broken jobs and people have learned to work in the textile industry at a time of socialism. Union protection, labour continuity, relatively decent pay, peaceful work, and today the bosses make them work 12, 14 hours. You have a situation in Vartex. And now about a few consultations that I had before and how it should be and why use Thai experience. The main market in Thailand for the placement of these new textile products in the first stage was tourism. And that's a chance for Croatia. In Croatia there is an invisible, one invisible designer movement of extremely capable designers. Some of us don't wear them here, I haven't bought Genoa's suit yet. "Geno" someone will say that it is some kind of ethnic look or that would be claimed to be an ethnic appearance. But that's how Kenzo started. When I brought the first Kenzo tie 20 years ago, everyone looked at me strangely. Today's "Kezno-va" suits in Paris cost at least EUR 1000. Therefore, if Croatia wants to help turn such one producer into one brand of international importance. This can be done in the first hand with useful incentives and on the incentives I will even return. There are several new design geniuses or very talented people in Zagreb. A group called "Eagle". Lodredana Bahorić, the genius Kety Balog who dresses Hloverka Srzic-Novok. Heruc produces a typical Croatian company that, a brand called "Estare Culto", is called Heruca. So that's where all the donations are to be abolished. So he's making something. He wants to misrepresent himself as some quasi Italian firm. All in all, I want to tell you gentlemen about these direct incentives, 20 million kuna, Mr. Minister, it's certainly a small amount of money. There's no dispute about it. Our prime minister, as he has known, has given his science counselor 28 million kunas to deal with the resuscitation of bacteria. You give the whole textile industry 20 million kuna. That's not much. There are, however, many aspects of excellence in this area. So I think you should be recognized and given some form of help especially in the early stages. There you have the awakening of these new schools. Designs, textiles. There's a lot of experience. There is in Zagreb Branimir Hundić who is completely exhausted, no one, and I finally return to Jaksa Marasovica who reads the newspaper. So I'd like us to use our own example wherever we can wear Croatian so we don't wear other people's clothes. And I'm done with Požega and Orljav. So not because of Maria Braut, who is old "biker" but because I think the sheaves are the best shirts in Croatia. They're better than "Dockers" shirts. ... So here's even Yaksha's wearing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, gentlemen, a small step with a personal example is carried Croatian, and let us not argue about who has ruined it and when? No textile industry has done anything smart and well because circumstances are difficult everywhere in the world. Get out of Switzerland, get out of Germany, get out of Italy. Everything runs to China. And if you see in America 92% of what is produced in the field of textiles is all produced in the Far East. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83111	Thank you very much. We have, we have two replicas. We have two replicas although this debate was little and an EPP for some individuals and companies. Let's go to the replicas. First Mr. Ledinsky, here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83112	I guess Sabati, right? Sabati [[/Intruder: What?]] [[Sabati, and this is Ledinski. I'm Ledinski.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83113	And sorry, sorry, is, is, is. Yeah, it's Sabbath, Sabbath.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83114	That can't be measured in these two minutes. Well, of course, my esteemed colleague Letica didn't say anything about my name and name, but he was interested and I showed him I was wearing Vartex's suit, but I'm not wearing just one, but all my suits are Vartex's because I'm a "wartexian". [[Good. Here you go.]] That I don't know if anyone knows of you, but I've worked for 9 years... But I worked in Vartex for nine years. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I know which are... in Vartex, surely far more than the vast majority of you here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unless it's a theoretical argument. And theoretical debate won't help Vartex... So by being a "wartexian" from 1980 to 1990, I know very well that there were 9,000 people working in Vartex himself, and in total there were 11 thousand people in SOUR. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are three thousand and 300 people in Vartex today. Well, of course we can talk about the reasons that were mentioned. But surely if we look at the problems that have arisen, they have not arisen now. They were formed there in the early 1990s. And so all the data that matters to us. How many millions of feet of staff or fabrics were produced in Vartex’s jacket and how many Englishmen wore the same suits from our Vartex configuration. But let's also remember how many Americans were carrying... I'm wearing shoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The market existed, but then governments had no sense of help. So it's not a problem that it wasn't a market. And so for Vartex's suits. And today, of course, it's hard to bring back the markets that were lost there in the 1990s. And if we all went back 10, 12 years, then we'd have a problem with the branding course that was then. Which is the same... Made trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that everything's expensive, we're talking about three thousand 300 "wartex". And di was the 9 grand that worked and had the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83115	Thank you. Mr. Letica's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83116	Mr. President, may I say why I commended Vartex specifically? Because of the pleasant memory of the late Herjac when I was president of the tennis alliance choosing between Boss and Vartex, I chose Vartex. Then he was the sales manager Mr. Skegro and on one phone call they made such a brilliant style-ing of our "Davis Cup" team. Wherever we showed up people thought it was either Armani or... That's how it was good-looking at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So rest his soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83117	Thank you. And another replica, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Letica and you surprised me today for the second time, the other night was my first, smart show. It was usually chickens, and I don't know what kind of debates. However, I fully agree with you that the action "Cube Croatia" should be implemented and implemented. I'm in Slavonia's suit, in Orly's tie, in my shirt, and I'm not counting any further. The only thing I don't know about underwear is that woman bought it for me because she buys it. But there is one big problem when we start buying Croatian, which is what students warn me about when they come in and when they can't buy anything but Hungarian juices from juices. And I don't want to keep counting what it's like with sheets, curtains, pillows, hospital, penitentiary, prisons, and not counting any further, because there's no telling what we're buying. The question is whether Croatian products are being purchased, whether some import products are being bought, where those importers find their interest 10, 15, 20%. And we all know that large systems, and in any case the public administration should be the drivers of certain branches not only in such a way as to give money but also to buy Croatian and that the system from the pen and to do not know any other equipment buy Croatian if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83119	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Agent Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83120	I thank you for having him... Maybe even offended, but it's such a kind of aggressive tastelessness that he can't figure out what I'm saying usually. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] But when it comes to it and it's not unusual, it's not even the first time that the kind of discourse behind which aggression is based on tastelessness, something that we have to get used to in this House. And in that sense, I thank you for not warning him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83121	Thank you very much. Everything that's not contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure don't say that someone has to speak wisely or less wisely, but says if he doesn't insult the Rules of Procedure, right? It's Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. In response to the parliamentary question tabled by Deputy Prime Minister Pavlic, he writes that the deadline for adopting a strategy for the development of the textile and clothing industry is the deadline for the adoption of the Strategy at the end of last 2006. And it was an ideal opportunity to discuss both the Strategy and this Interpellation together. But it turns out that apparently the government is jealous of some of its papers, so we can't get to them, they'll probably be used for pre-election purposes. What interests me particularly and amazes the Croatian textile industry among other things is not competitive enough on the market. I would like us to discuss among other things and what are the reasons that the textile but also the shoe industry are not competitive on the market. We are not enough to talk about the fact that since the early 1990s, we only remember the President of the Government of Valentiæ and then the 4th course, and if we saw how far the exchange rate has gone since then or at what level the euro rate has been compared to the current mark exchange rate and how much everyone has entered the textile and shoe industry, but in all other industries, I think we'd be amazed at the price of fuel, the price of electricity and everything else in this country. At the same time, the course is constantly held at the same level. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Vice President, if you could calm your colleagues down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83123	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83124	That is why it seems to me that this debate is an attempt to finally start systematically in Croatia, and I stress that the problem of these industries is being systematically solved. And I'm as a Varazdinac proud to try and be successful in helping the Vortex. But this must not depend on the government, individuals in this or that government, but should be a systematic resolution of all or all the companies that are in these branches. And there's a problem that systematically in this country nothing is solved. So the government did react individually and that's commendable. However, as in the shipbuilding system, we are going to solve this means that we are trying completely in due course to solve both shoe and textile industries. And when you talk to them about what's going on here in the Interpellation that I support, and I'm going to specifically look back at some of these things, we have a problem with uncontrolled imports to Croatia. We understand that by joining the World Trade Organization, we cannot defend any imports. However, the institutions of this country must react to imports of non-quality goods. I'm asking myself and your colleagues what the competent state institutions are doing from the State Inspectorate and beyond, if we know there's a bofur on the market that the truth God has a low price, but it's also bad. At the same time, we have our high-quality goods that can't be sold. Because when it's all paid up, when the technical conditions are met, then it just costs it. We don't have a government position or some government report on what's happened over the past period, whether it's a year, two, three, found on our market, of quality, and the producers and shoes and textiles themselves say that their biggest problem is unfair competition of poor quality. We have certain standards that we don't know whether they're being followed or not. I think it would be very good if we had some of that. Another thing, how many black goods do we have on our market? The "soft" import limit on which neither VAT, customs, nor anything else is paid. Of course, such goods are cheaper and in these social moments it answers that people can buy something cheaper. So we see on one side we get, on the other side we lose. Therefore, I think, and this is mentioned here in point 6. we cannot ban imports, but we can respect all the rules of the game that our producers must respect. The second thing, about it now is that some colleague Kapraljevic tried to speak in his replica, we have a public procurement system in Croatia. How much do we promote domestic production in this public procurement system? Very little, because it is most often not a problem and is not sought in competitions of some quality but is required the lowest price. And those who respect and quality, because we have standards that must be respected, those who respect VAT payments, everything else, simply, pay the workers that we don't forget either, they're simply in a subordinate situation, often they can't do anything in such tenders because very often, they can't say most often, but very often, and these are complaints from manufacturers from the Varazdinska and Međimurje County with whom I talked, they're simply losing in competitions for state firms precisely because they're the subject of prices, prices, prices, and they're not being respected or very little respected for the joys and qualities. It seems to me if we want to, and it can be quite certain, is one way to encourage our shoe and textile industry. One of the following problems I want to point out is the problem of lending, or financing such production. I have a case of a cobbler's production from Međimurje County asking for a loan to pay off the liabilities that have been withdrawn for years. Let us remember the wartime of non-payment and everything else, and it must be recognised that the Ministry of Finance comes out to meet and the payment of VAT is delayed because we are now paying one of these companies, regularly paying what they get, but they have old obligations. If it can't be written off legally, let's go see and they want to borrow, get credit, but we know what the situation in banking in Croatia is. Both the shoe industry and the textile industry are highly risky to obtain credit. Let's take a look at how you can help that industry. These are concrete measures. So if these are just guarantees, if we don't already have, and we only have one state bank, it's the Croatian Post Bank. Some of the clerks in it also, despite the guaranteed guarantees, i.e. mortgages that are usually 2:1 for credit, simply the clerk calculated that the risk is too high because the shoe industry, no credit. So let's go see and I'd like to hear those answers, is there something in that strategy that the state will do according to at least its state bank find ways for these relatively risky credit users to get some quality credit to be able to do business in. The problem pays in the shoe and textile industry. That's what they talk about all the time. However, we understand respected colleagues and colleagues’ low wages during the lifetime, it is a low pension and a social case when they retire. I'm setting up one thesis here, whether there's a possibility that maybe the state subsidizes or co-finances one part of the salary, that would be for these 38 thousand workers or employees a very useful measure. Let's also look at these new technologies in textiles and clothing. There are, we can't say they're gone. However, the fact is that those who come from the outside also make high profitable and good textile or footwear production. When they see the average of low wages with us, they very quickly accept the low wage policy and in their businesses, often under the pretext of high costs, this, that. It's usually 200, 300 to 500 kuna higher average wages than it is in our old textile industry. Therefore, it is obvious that one of the measures could prescribe a minimum wage in Croatia, a part of the subsidy, could be as good. So by supporting this interpretation, I think we're wasting too much energy and time on who's more or less guilty. The fact is that in the 1990s, there was an escalation and destruction of the good part of the textile industry and the footwear industry. However, if we have a system of measures that we can help, let's just remember "Mure" in our neighbouring Slovenia, and it also negotiated to join the European Union. Regardless of the negotiations and everything else, it's pumped up there seems to me some 5m to 7m euros directly help "Muri" because it was an interest. Let us not forget these northwestern counties in the Republic of Croatia, these are the densest populated counties where otherwise the problem with labour is especially female labour. A lot of textiles have failed in other parts of Croatia. But if we want real and real help, let's finally come to this High House with a textile development strategy, this industry, on the trail of what I've made a few suggestions. I don't think they might be the most real moment right now, but let's go secure the money in the state budget for that. If we have a record budget of nearly 105 billion kuna, why don't we have record help for the textile and shoe industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83125	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83126	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First, a few words with some technical details. I must say, as an opposition parliamentary representative, that I must agree to the frequent demands of our President-in-Office in particular to stick to the subject. He warns us, he takes away our word properly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, in this case, I would dare say that he made a major failure on January 11th when he received this report from the government, because this report has really nothing to do with the interpretation of our parliamentary representatives. There isn't. They sought an impelation related to the government's work programme for the period from 2003 to 2007. In this report, a colleague and a colleague, on page 5 alone, we have half a sentence concerning that period. I'll read you that sentence. Since the process of restructuring and development of these branches is a long and complex process, the measures and activities carried out so far have not achieved sufficient results. That's all. Nothing else. And the government, regardless of what data it has not given, in this way I personally think that it is underestimating this House, is underestimating those parliamentary representatives who signed this impelation, says still reject the interpretation because, since we have not prepared a strategic framework for development for the period 2006-2013. Look at your colleagues and colleagues in this little strategic framework. Open up a little of that frame, look, look in that strategic framework something about the textile industry, something about the shoe industry. You won't find a single word about these industrial branches. You won't find a word of it. Therefore, ineffectiveness is justified by the design of new frameworks of strategic ones, i.e. at the end of this report we are offered that strategic definitions of the development of the textiles and clothing industry will be drawn up by 15 years, so again profuturo. Nothing refers to the period 2003-2007. Let me read a few more sentences. I'll strictly stick to the report and it's interesting that in the body of the debate we've heard some additional information, but we don't have them in writing, I can't talk about them. It is said that the textile and footwear industry participates with 1% in the gross social product of Croatia, employs 33,000 workers and is registered 800 economic operators in these activities. Now we know about their problems, we heard in this four-way debate. My question to Mr. Minister, to explain later. What he did as a minister. Did he invite six mayors from these six counties we talked about? 6 Chamber of Commerce Presidents, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the school institutions, to see how we are humanely standing in these areas and what results came from these talks. Instead, it says: "The Republic of Croatia will bring to the first half of 2007 the Strategy of the Croatian Policy Industry". So there's a promise again, but I'd like to really know what happened, if there's ever been any more concrete conversations, suggestions, initiatives. I'll tell you, colleagues and colleagues. Take the Slovenian "Muru", a very successful company. Where do they, colleagues and colleagues educate their designers? Where? They are sent to education in Zagreb because there is no school of design in Ljubljana. So we educate their designers, they fit their strategy, they use optimally, they coordinate everything that needs to be coordinated and the company works. We can't even think about it, and we can't even agree on people's training. If not in Zagreb we could use "Tempus" European Union funds, we could use a number of other financial exports. But we never really did anything. I agree, the government didn't do it either, but the last government didn't object to this interpretation, and it's my objection to the vice president to let us talk about a period beyond this interpretation. That's not good, that doesn't make sense. We've been losing hours and hours, and we can't get to any particular conclusion. Everyone goes wide, where it suits him, and clearly the textile and shoe industry will obviously stay where they are, which I absolutely cannot accept. These famous 20 million kunas, that's how it stands. I'll touch them too. Look at the absolute amount and look at the obvious priority. My colleague Letica combined it with some other investment. I'll just remind you, colleagues and colleagues, last year, that 33 skiers would land on Sljemen was spent on preparing a trail on Sljeme over 200 million kuna, and for 33,000 workers standing on thin textile ice, it doesn't seem anything. Only 10% of it is invested annually. This is unacceptable and in this way we will definitely not be able to resolve the issue of the textile and shoe industry. Therefore, I remind you once again, we should have received information related to the government's work and the government's programme in this area. We shouldn't have let the government deceive us with the promise, that... with a strategic framework in which nothing stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should not have, clearly, allowed to discuss the strategy of specifics that will only be seen by the light of day. We should have clearly concentrated on good examples in ourselves and in neighbouring countries how to help textiles and footwear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83127	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83128	Here, in the replica, therefore, the Honorable Mr. Representative referred only to the government's report, therefore, on the state of the textile-bubble, i.e., on the interpretation, and he didn't speak a word, therefore, of the very interpelation we suggested. And I think it would be very important, therefore, to say once again that we are proposing in our interpretation 8 concrete measures to save the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I will repeat, from the resolution and the request for a transitional period for the implementation of the measures in negotiations with Europe to certain tax reliefs, etc. I think it is important to point out that we should have pointed out, therefore, that in the previous debate, it is also the measures to highlight the difference between the interpretation and the report. So, the government's report, as has been said, is talking about some moves back three years that have actually not been and is talking about some clean formal things that should be done from the strategic framework for development, industrial policy strategies and to the development strategy. Well, here I am, so I'm hoping my colleague will fill me in now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83129	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83130	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83131	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. It's 15 o'clock. The first is Mr. Jure Bitunjac, and then Kronoslav Markovanovic, Biserka Perman and so on. At 3:00, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83132	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session and the debate. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83133	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Interpreting the government's responsibilities signed by 17 MPs when it comes to the textile and footwear sectors, I find it unobstructed. In the first place, because this government, when it comes to the economy in general, and especially when it comes to this sector that it is today, is the state it is, it is very well known to all. But since this is an important and economic social issue in this regard, perhaps the debate on this topic is not too high and the voice of the representatives is heard and the voice of the Government is heard on this important issue. In any case, the attempt to resolve it is not only today, but in the 1990s it has tried to solve it as an economy in general through resolution problems. When it comes to textiles, I must say that the successes of the then governments were absolutely limited, however, I would also say that the bankruptcy policy implemented during the coalition government through programmed bankruptcy did not get those results from far away, but I would say they gained less success than they did in earlier years. In any case, both concepts went to try to create conditions to privatise that part of the economic sector, i.e. to do so through bankruptcy, rather than privatising. We know and we are witnessing that on the free market and in the competition our textiles, our footwear product, our textile product has not received an enviable result, not nearly one that each of us would rather have in which sector, in which part of the economy or function is acting. No, I have to say that we did not create a product, we did not produce trade marks which, except at national level, would be recognizable and would be competitive in European and world trade marks. On the other hand, the good part of the people who work in this, in this significant branch in the textile, or the shoe branch, are jobs that are primarily tied up to further jobs and where we are, in fact, selling only labor and nothing more. These employers who come, they go even easier, they go to cheaper markets, and these are the problems we have to face. On the other hand, I will conclude what many of my colleagues have already said that cheaper goods, and certainly weaker quality and far weaker quality, better said... the goods that come from, first of all, from Southeast Asia are also a problem for our producers and these are all the elements that we need to face. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that the area of grey economy in which textile and footwear products were sold and sold in the first place that the ring is slowly tightened and that the state services, primarily the State Inspectorate, customs and certain institutions of the Ministry of Finance, are intruding into this area and that one unfair competition that is still present on our market will be removed. Of course, the laws we recently discussed, the Consumer Protection Act and other laws will go towards consumer protection, as well as the protection of producers in the Republic of Croatia. What I haven't heard from the speakers today is one fact that since 2000, we haven't had a situation in a year that imports of textiles, imports of footwear products have been below a billion and $450 million... In 2005 it amounted to a billion and 638 thousand dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mostly it's about sports equipment, clothing, fashion confection, and it's about youth confection. It is simply our domestic textile industry that cannot and is unable to mate with large and famous world companies and brands. The question raised by these MPs is what the current government has done. I believe that my colleague, Plesa, on behalf of the HDZ club, is a representative of Mlinaric, and in particular Minister Vukelic, has answered the question. However, we could also go against the question of what the former government did, so I would try to give an answer based on what happened in Sinj, in my town regarding the privatisation of "Dalmatinka". In the '90s, I'm going to go back a little bit, with the government's support being rehabilitated for a number of years, there was no privatisation, there was an average employee of a thousand 600, a thousand 700 people and in 2002 through bankruptcy was privatized, and the concept was next, the buyer was the Italian firm La Distribuche, they founded a new company called Dalmatinka Nova, and... They were next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 420 workers should be permanently employed, at least 5 years from the date of taking over the company, annual investments should be 1.5 million kuna, since privatisation through bankruptcy of obligations to suppliers, to the state and to any of the creditors has been resolved. But at the 9th month of this year, what we're asking is what's going to happen to this company that was once the backbone of employment in the area of Sinj and the Cetin region? What happens to her in the future? I think it's such a question in this particular case to ask this government since decisions have already been made, that the gauges have already been set, I don't think it's correct, that it's not fair. In any case, the fate of this trading house was determined in 2002 and no matter what some colleagues and colleagues from the current opposition tried to explain the case on local radio stations, I don't think they succeeded. Unfortunately not. We would certainly like to have a company at the end of this year that will be competitive because its handicap is that it produces only one product. It's thread and something topping. The Croatian market is small and the question is what will happen to the fate of these workers? Certainly speaking about this area, about the textile sector and about the footwear sector is quite complex, demanding and I believe that there are great tasks in front of companies and before all of us to maintain an existing level of employment on the one hand and on the other, in order to respond technologically and quality to the challenges ahead of us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83134	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83135	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'm sure this year's gonna be a lot of impellation. This is one of the early papers. ... Yes, the election. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then, we're talking and no one's listening. But here I repeat what I have already said that the textile industry has fallen into existence in the '80s, that the situation has been very difficult. Which were the reasons it's hard to say. Is it Pontero or is it those endless columns that went out shopping? But the fact is, I'm saying it was already such that most of these textile industries were facing a fall, almost before closing. According to this, stories about some recent bad or worsening certainly do not stand. In those years, in the early '90s, the free market had already started. So the import waved. There was also smuggling along with the imports. In the war, hundreds of trucks of goods arrived to help from Europe to reduce shopping again. For the past six, seven years, we've noticed that, say, at Kaiser, we've created an entire Chinese settlement, so the Chinatown. Where it's distributed. [[Intruder: China City.]] Storages are goods of poor quality and we know from the data that a number of containers of goods come to these addresses. How much does textile goods cost in one container that might be interesting to hear all that data, so we'll see that several containers cost almost one year of production of one of our smaller factories. If the Chinese are doing well, I can see that they can already afford models in the Croatian Parliament whose hats are wearing, as far as I can see. So to make it worth their while, it's no wonder the swing's actually getting bigger. We had, we had a chance to see what was going on with Bennetton. Here, with us, one Bennetton plant opened, that is, their craftsmen who make up the company "Benetton" Yeah, yeah, China, China. ... [[Is that Chinese hats?]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83136	Well, people, don't... Put your hats on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83137	China, but I think...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83138	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83139	Mr. President! But there's no conflict of interest because they wear these hats for free. I mean, it's not a problem. ... "Benetton" us... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83140	It's for some little head.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83141	"Benetton" hired us a whole series of women's labor forces can tell but the salaries are low, very low. It needs to work very hard for about 2,000 maybe now a little bit more kuna. And I don't think that's what we should be trying to do. We're talking about our companies. Here, fellow Letica praises the "Snatcher" shirts and you try to pass the entire Ilica, you will find a few "Snatcher" shirts of everything, bad quality. So, the offer of a small choice, the offer of none of this. And I think they're a little bit of an increase in production so we can sell a lot more. The question also arises why, let's say, DTR lost one famous brand and which is... Is it because of quality or something else that they should say themselves? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These columns at the borders have now replaced large stores and the biggest suppliers have actually become markets where there is still a large amount of goods in my opinion and illegally imported goods. We saw that the government helped the Vortex who fell seriously. And "Vartex" no wonder, since he was most involved in jeans and jeans pants, say, you can get for 60 kunas in large department stores. No wonder that, in fact, with normal certain prices of proper quality, it's hard to penetrate customers. Clearly, in the export offensive that we need to talk about clusters because companies themselves are too small, it will be difficult to resist this market. And what it's supposed to be is really creating new brands. Something should look at how it's done in Europe. Let's say, we have one single brand of textile industry, it's a croat tie. The others, I don't think they've invested too much. The experience of the European Union should also be applied in education. In Brussels, here is recently when we were, Brussels is the most talking about innovation, because they are aware that they cannot compete with goods from the Far East at low prices. So, innovation will have to be applied here, too. It is obvious that everyone expects the government's help without mentioning the crisis of management, the crisis of innovation and the crisis of marketing. I don't think guarantees, loans and giving money to private firms are the solutions. We've seen this in the case of Victor Lance, where the former government was throwing state money around the party line and the result of the wealth of owners, managers, yachts and the like. If we apply the practice of taking ownership parts in exchange for financial support and if this is missed soon, the state could once again become the owner of all these factories. It should be supported by the Ministry of Economy to assist the survival of the textile and leather industry as part of the possibility. It's interesting that the same MPs are looking in the same way for money for other branches of industry except when their parties act in power, but it's from another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83142	Thank you. Four replicas. First respected representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83143	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, I'm taking the opportunity to replicate an esteemed colleague. I'm one of those MPs who thinks you shouldn't be in the House making a promotion, even when promiscation is positive. But I especially don't find it acceptable that such negative promiscuity comes from our ranks. In this case, it's one of our companies that we're talking about having bad shirts. I don't agree with that because a large number of our MPs also wear those shirts. And normally, in a large part with Mr. Crown's exposure, I agree, but I think this lapus, I believe this is a lapus, that he certainly didn't purposely say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83144	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83145	Maybe you guys got me wrong. I said they don't have any choice. So we can sell far more. But there isn't, they're empty stores. Here we are, a couple of our colleagues, they've been through all of Ilica and all of these shops. The "Orly" shirt is almost gone. And I say they're extraordinary qualities. That's me, maybe I said wrong, wasn't it? So they're not in the shops. And we're saying there's no one to sell the goods to. I'm sorry if I said it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83146	Second replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Markovanovic said our markets, shops, shops are full of poor quality goods and illegal imported goods. So smuggled goods. If the goods of poor quality have managed to find a way into the Croatian market, it means that we do not have quality control mechanisms and that we do not apply what we have sworn to apply. European quality standards. Who's to blame? On the other hand, if our markets and stores are full of smuggled goods, then you know who's to blame. It's the Minister of Finance and Customs. Well, someone's got to answer there. For God's sake, if the wagons are smuggled goods here, they can be bought, I don't know, at the stands, at the turn of the Blackmerac, on the Treshniks and wherever. But let's be realistic. We are constantly rebelling that Chinese and far east cheap goods here are tearing our business apart. Well, if we want to, and if we can afford to actually do cheap goods. Cheap goods can only be handled with cheap labor. Do you know how much a Chinese worker makes an hour? Between 15 and 18 cents. Turn it into a month's pay. Are we going to compete with them and can we compete with them and should we compete with them? We don't have to. We need to raise our production level, technological and design level so that we can sell on rich markets including the Chinese market. And the government's strategy and the government's help should serve exactly that. So not supporting someone who wants to compete with cheap Chinese goods but supporting someone who wants to do quality and design better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83148	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83149	Thank you. So here's a respected colleague, a columnist, said back in 1980, in 1990, "I'm looking at our borders. If one day we stand out, we'll all have to be border guards." So the borders are ugly, that's true. And the goods are coming, right. I'm sorry there's an illegal here and there. The previous government did it nicely. When she was supposed to import toys then she changed the law so that toys would be Chinese toys again to be very cheap, right? Because clearly the main dealer was one former minister from your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83150	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83151	Thank you, Mr. President. I already thought that I would give up the replica because my colleague Vuljanic was actually saying what I intend to say about my colleague Markovanovic's exposure. But after his answer to the replica now, I have to do it again. It's actually someone else's fault. So here it is for this difficult situation in the textile and leather industry. We're always inclined to look everywhere just not where we're at home and try to actually do what we can do, or what we can do, is what this group of MPs have given the impelation, thinks that this government could have done in the last few years and it hasn't, and it hasn't. About that, I want to point out again. You were talking about the problem of a container full of dubious goods, questionable declarations, who knows where? You mentioned China, and you should know that they come from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Ukraine lately and so on, and so on. So suspicious of quality. And then they ask what the inspections are doing? What's the DOJ doing? And I particularly refer to what the inspector is doing, but obviously we may actually be clear about what he's doing after we've had the opportunity to have a lock-up appearance by the chief state inspector, who was obviously in the first place to praise Ivo Sanader and HDZ. And don't think about what's in our stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83152	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83153	Well, I'm surprised to my colleague that she's surprised that the Interpellation comes down to someone else's fault. This is the first Interpol in a row this year that will go exclusively to prove that someone else is guilty. There's not too much surprise about that. But what I'm surprised at, and that's when we count it all, all that the previous government has concluded for some period that it's actually all stemming from those last few months in 2003. ... So, you could have done something at the time, and not just talking is someone else's fault. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83154	And distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83155	Honored Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. A fellow representative mentioned that the Croatian government helped Vartex and that he stood on his feet. I just want to replicate in that sense that it didn't only help Vartex. Here is the minister who listed several dozen Croatian companies, the Croatian government helped them come out of the crisis one way or another. And that, and that Vartex is only one example of how it can be effectively in spite of the agreement signed by the previous Government with the European Union, a model can also be found to help companies who are in an uninvitable position to stand on their own feet. To produce products that are competitive on the market and which are also competitive with this "bofl" goods that come from all sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83156	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83157	Here's a thank you, colleagues. But it should be really emphasized that the government, and there was an objection why the government also shows the establishment of clusters. We actually tried to make ourselves a cluster with our craftsmen who would actually go to the equipment of low-building facilities. And I can tell you that didn't work out. With two, three companies still working out like that. The other principles of everything, they found countless ways not to get into it. According to this co-ordination of the government and government organisations, it will be very good to actually connect our divided industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83158	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83159	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We probably all remember last year's scandal that took place on the pages of the New List on Questionnaires or the demands that the workers of the Rijeka clothing industry "RIO" had to fulfill in order to be able to hold their post at all. Questionnaires also contained humiliating questions about the personal life of workers, and they were given the conditions for overtime and weekend work and holidays that are contrary to all the positive legal norms of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that the number of employees has been reduced to half despite contracts primarily focused on exports. So the scope of the job remained approximately the same, and the burden of the workers doubles, so it's 12 and more hours at a minimum wage. It turns out that workers practically don't see their children awake because they go to work before the children wake up, and they come back at night when the children are already asleep or just getting ready for bed. In addition to her colleague Gordana Sobol's reaction as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, no one in the executive board responded accordingly. A similar case was in a once very successful textile sports clothing factory in Novska, whose kalvaria began with the HDZ privatisation model from the 1990s. In his correction to the incorrect quote by counterpart Kajin, MP Markovovic mentioned the cries of the textiles to be bought by Vukic back in '88. And '89. Last century, when it was said there was not yet an independent Croatia, and Vucic traded gold abroad. Why did I mention this? Well, it's simply because this factory was bought by the Wolf so it didn't go any better than the others. The company went bankrupt despite pre-arranged transactions per year and more in advance about 90% of the German market production, but at prices that could not cover guaranteed minimum wages. I don't want to elaborate the entire firm's calvary on this occasion, but I want to highlight a few details. The number of employees today fell to 50%, and the average salary in production is 2 thousand 200 kuna which is less than in the mid-1990s when the average was around 2 thousand 500 kuna, but still more than other textile companies where the salaries in production are mostly below 2 thousand kuna. Taking into account the cost of life and their growth, it is clear what quality of life can be in families of textile workers. The fact is that the textile industry is before the Homeland War, that is, at the time of the so-called war. The socialist darkness received incentives for production and export, and today in the flood of cheap competition from the Far East, textiles and cobblers can only dream of such incentives. The prescribed minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is very difficult to achieve in these industries due to the already mentioned competition from the Far East, but the government does nothing, or does not do enough for the textile and footwear industry to be on its own feet and become competitive and that their workers or better said workers can live on their salaries and their work as is possible in the current everyday life only with the help of a magic wand. During today's debate, we have heard something about measures to promote development and improve the situation in the textile and leather footwear industry, for which the Government predicted 20 million kunas per year for 2005, 2006 and 2007. The funds are planned for, here I quote the Government's report: "Development of own products, processing and adoption of new markets, i.e. opening of own stores and representative offices and similar, adoption and development of new technologies, introduction of quality systems, education of staff and raising the level of environmental protection.", finished quote. Furthermore, the government said it met 114 in 2005 and in 2006. 96 economic operators. So it turns out that on average, out of those 20 million, they got 175 and 200 thousand kuna a year, respectively. I guess the situation won't be any different this year either. I ask myself and you how to encourage these amounts to develop products and new technologies, to adopt new markets, to introduce a quality system, to educate people and to protect the environment? I believe I won't make a mistake if I insist it wouldn't work out with a simple tailoring salon where the owner works alone. By refusing this Interpellation, the government actually states that it still does not want or knows how to help improve the difficult situation of workers in the textile and shoe industry and confirms their social insensitivity for nearly 40,000 families. Therefore, I will support the conclusions from the text of the Interpletion and I hope that by accepting these conclusions, the Croatian Parliament will show greater sensitivity to the existential problems of textiles and footwear than the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83160	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83161	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I was going to have a little longer discussion, but I've said most of it in some replicas. However, I would like to remind the minister that he is now moving into one action, which is the rehabilitation of shipbuilding. And there will be seven billion kunas. We know we've been in shipbuilding since 500 to 800 million kunas every year. And to those 12 thousand people who are employed there, we've probably taken care of it in such a way that they stay working, and that they work cooperatives, and that everyone else does. So far, they've been put into 41 thousand kunas per head, and in this second branch that we're discussing here today is about 700, 800, 500 to 700 kuna per employee. But I remember one other recovery that was actually happening, a lot of it was written, and we talked a lot about it here and we talked about it, and it was a bank recovery. When we also put some 11 million together, 11 billion in bank recovery to sell them for 4 billion. So I wonder what happens to shipbuilding if we do this the same way. And I'm also curious about what will happen to the employees after such a recovery. While at the same time there was one branch that, as I said in the most difficult moments for Croatia was very, very important, because there was then, it was an export branch as it was now and by export does not differ much from the shipbuilding, which at the time brought some living cash that we needed and workers participated in each case in defending the homeland. But then some others came and they turned it all into the way they turned it, and I don't want to talk about it today because it would take a long time. Even some of these executives are such companies that have been dealing with broken business, some of the Vesnas, etc. were also declared managers of the year that this same Vesna would collapse as soon as someone turned it into private. And the question arises all the time today, after the meaning of that breakdown, who made more, this government, she government or some, any government and whoever's guilty and all the time is moving the ball over there. It's your fault, it's our fault, who did what or did what, no one did it. As a rule, I don't think anybody's done anything for these people. But it doesn't justify this government anyway. And just as none of us who are here right now for this House's term can be blamed for any decisions that have been made before, but we have a responsibility for this right now. So here I suggest that we take all the blame for this situation that is now in this branch, move on to Mr. Boris Hidric, since he was the first industry minister in that FNRJ and declare him guilty, all of his squares, streets and all that remains behind him, but one thing I ask you, we will find him guilty, but please, just accept these eight conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83162	Thank you. Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So since today's debate has been mentioned several times in the context of the debate on an important topic, it is a textile and footwear industry and shipbuilding. Since there were parallels and so on, I would still comment on it for reasons and public understanding. So we're talking about the textile shoe industry, we find it extremely important for a large part of Croatia, for a large number of employees, for a large number of workers and absolutely 90% of the debate, we estimate that there was subsidisation and any help from the state in the continuity of the years to this sector of our industry was lacking in terms of real, but I would still a little in terms of debate and comparison with shipbuilding, ask a little for one reserve and for one respect for a very simple reason. I hope that soon, so practically the next days or in a week or two, we will discuss and have information on the proposal to restructure Croatian shipbuilding. In light of this, we will have certain parts of the debate that will apply to the so-called “. ” The multiplier economic effect that shipbuilding gives and which textiles and footwear does not have, and given that we will have in this debate probably also the calculations of the Faculty of Economics and the Economic Institute in Zagreb on the subject of shipbuilding, so I simply want to point out that we are not simplifying in terms of comparison, we are here today to discuss a serious problem of textiles and shoe industry for which we want to get the conditions for the state to support them seriously and in quality, and this is what I hope that Deputy Prime Minister Polancec will soon come up with the information before the House so that we will be able to address all aspects of Croatian shipbuilding, but also this multiplicit financial effect for the state and for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83164	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83165	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we from the continent have shown enough respect all along. The respect for highways, the respect for tourism development, the respect for island development, the respect for the development of shipbuilding, the respect for not knowing what not, for two squid, for fishing and for not knowing what we didn't have respect for. But gentlemen, it's 38 thousand people and it's 12,000 people. I don't want to put people on the scale, but I want to put on the scale that each other are citizens of this country and each other have the right to subsidies from the state. And if 500 million kuna is put into one each year, and in other practically nothing, we're talking about 20 million kunas every three years, I don't see who should have a respect there. We all don't know who?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83166	The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So since in the morning I also talked a lot about this subject, although time not so much, let me, as a signator, or a co-signator of this Interpellation, try perhaps a little bit and turn the debate in the other direction. Certainly, the moment I decided to subscribe this request was not driven by the idea of wanting to find someone guilty or that he wanted to point a finger at whether or not he had done it, but it was simply an idea to open up the debate, to encourage the ministry in some way, and therefore the government to start talking more seriously about it and see if we have any systematic solutions. I agree I said already and before I should not speak this government is more, it government less or vice versa. The problems have not arisen in these years, the problems are unfortunately multiplied back in the early 1990s and now we have a situation that is not a bit promising, or even a little good. So to somehow avoid this transfer of the ball who's guilty, who isn't, I suggest we still turn to systematic solutions, that is to say, to hear a definitive answer to what kind of textile industry we want here. There is no doubt that the data available to us is that we still have a large number of employees in that branch of industry. Let's say that if we are looking at the Varazdin County, the total number of employees in the economy is 34 thousand 166, and in the processing industry where there are textiles and footwear industry is 17 and 411 and only the textile and footwear industry is 8 thousand 100. So 23.7% of the total number of employees in the economy. It is still a large percentage, a large number and that number of people deserve to be spoken of with respect. When we talk about wages, then in our Varazdin County I have already said before that the wages are lower, mostly than in other parts of Croatia which may be a little surprising when you try to sort of compare where certain economic growth is seen, where certain investments are increasingly present. It's Varazdin County, but I repeat, they pay for it and they don't follow. So the salaries in our county's economy are three thousand 93 kuna. In textiles 2 thousand 475 and in footwear 2 thousand 272. So that's even less pay and we need to talk about these problems. So, on the one hand, the question arises that this number of employees who are not large compared to 15 years ago, we have to re-emphasise that and at least that number of employees retain and how in some way create the conditions for these small salaries to be higher,... We can compare, for example, textile production, shoes with software production, for example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know about textiles and footwear that it's low-income, that it has a relatively large number of employees, but also if there's little view of what things are used there, they're very expensive facilities, or expensive technology. On the other hand, one production of software employs a relatively small number of people, it's cheaper equipment, but there's smarts very, very expensive, so big wages. Of course, not everyone can be top informers. So, I repeat, it's very useful to think about how this number of people who are now working to keep, how to allow them to have higher wages. We can speak of course, private companies, all together, that's understood. But the textile industry itself, in this way, unfortunately, is not going in the right direction. Most of the jobs being done here are mostly broken jobs, and if investment by foreign investors is analysed then we must also say that the industry is, as a rule, moving from some richer Western European countries and above all, arbitrary to those countries where labour is cheaper. So, if we come, unfortunately, investors are coming looking for as favourable investment conditions as possible. Less pay, less taxes, etc. And that's another reason to think, if there's going to be these investments, if there's going to be an increasing number of people to be employed, but with low wages. So we're not going to create our own kind or achieve our own goal, which is that we have as good a standard as possible, to live better. I'm afraid we're not going to live any better with smaller wages, but good. Better and a small salary than none, but I'm interested in just all of these aspects to see if we can think about some kind of strategy, say where the priorities are for some kind of economic textile industry. Whether we want to give certain benefits to the textile industry and therefore to people who are employed or not, the strategic priority of this government. So that's exactly what I wanted to mention. Of course, I won't repeat that I may have the right to speak more in some things because I'm more experienced, and that's "Vartex's"... I've been right there for nine years, so then I know how these people live, under what conditions, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today may have been a little bit of a fix, but not perhaps important. Of course, because of everything I've said, you should consider whether to accept these suggestions. I, here, and as a co-signator of this Interpellation, suggest that they either accept themselves or find some other solution, just to open up the topic of what position the textile industry is and also the shoe industry we want in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83168	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83169	Thank you, Mr. President. As I actually believe, the debate is nearing its end, but since I am also a co-signator of this proposal for interpretation, after all these discussions and each other's, and so are the accusations and bickering of who is guilty, who is more or less guilty, whether the former government or this government has been mentioned a lot. But I think that perhaps we should repeat once again what we really wanted with this Interpellation, or what we want from the Croatian government. We want the Croatian Parliament to draw 8 conclusions after today's debate, therefore, that will oblige the Government to change its policy towards the textile and shoe industry. So we suggest that we go to the repair of the textile and shoe branches. From the state budget, we propose according to the solutions that have been applied in Belgium. We ask for a transitional period for the implementation of the measures to be implemented for the recovery of these industries in negotiations with the European Union. We ask that it be returned, to prohibit, among other things, the excessive export of low-quality textile, footwear products to Croatia, etc., etc. So 8 points, you all have this proposal of interpretation and you can read it again. So it seems to me that we're not actually looking for the impossible and we're only looking for what we really think might ultimately help improve the situation in the textile and shoe industry in our country. What I would also like to warn you, I believe, is that when the government responded to this interpretation, but if you look at how the Government answered the parliamentary question of colleague Zeljko Pavlica in relation to the incentives of the state of textile and leather-based industry then we can actually see, simply say, it seems to me that from that answer to the parliamentary question, and the first was in December 2004, and the second in June 2006, to this response, or the report on the Interpol since January of this year, I can only conclude that the government has absolutely not moved from any beginning. Because in response to the parliamentary question, it is also being said that a strategy for the development of the textile clothing industry is under way that will provide a full analysis of the existing situation in the branch and a proposal for measures to change the structure and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian textile industry. And then this one sentence someone has already mentioned, the strategy will be in line with the horizontal principles of industrial policy and with the legal acquis of the European Union for textiles. For the competitiveness of our textile industry also extremely important inclusion of Croatia in Pan-European diagonal cumulation of origin. And in this Interpol report on the back page, it repeats the same thing. Therefore, in order to obtain an overall analysis of the existing situation and measures to change the structure and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian textile footwear industry, several strategic documents are under way, so that analysis of the current development of the textiles and clothing industry in the European Union and Croatia is under way, etc., etc. So basically it turns out, the only thing I can conclude is that all these years when this government is constantly working on making some analysis that still doesn't know when it's going to be over and whether it's going to be over this year. What I would especially like to warn you about, I speak as a parliamentary representative and as president of the Committee on Gender Equality. I want to remind you, you remember 2006. Somewhere in the 2nd month, in February 2006, there was one in the paper quite a media case, therefore, of workers from the Bennetton plant in Osijek. At that time these workers were several, the epilogue of that story was that several workers were fired, that workers are still in court today. As far as I'm concerned, it's been on all their complaints that have gone from too many norms, from insults to various grounds and gender, and on a national basis, etc., from wages that are miserable, from overtime and unpaid hours, certain and unpaid hours. I haven't seen anyone in this country in the long run show if it's all true what these women are saying. Last year, it ended, I remind you, on the eve of Christmas, when 300-thousand workers of "Herca" strike in Zagreb were on strike because of their default, i.e. because of the company's decision not to pay them Christmases, i.e. that they would pay Christmases only to those workers who had not been on sick leave for one day, who had met the standard, and there were workers and again warned about the too many standards that were made to make them at 10 o'clock, and not at 8 o'clock, they warned of the extremely difficult conditions in which they worked, they warned of the miserable salaries. I'm talking, in this case, in one part of it, I'm talking about the textile industry, I'm talking about an industry where at the moment, according to estimates, that's what we have 38 thousand employees doing over 30,000 women. And it's not just an unqualified workforce, so let's just say that someone's experiencing them, which is very naturally questionable, because there are also workers who are long-time workers in the textile industry, so if they don't have some completed schools, they must have been through their long-term work and acquired some qualifications and some knowledge. I am responsibly saying that no one in this country has been concerned about this problem, has asked what is actually going on in these plants, what are the conditions, what kind of pressures, what kind of harassment is going on. So just take the results that the textiles, skin, shoes themselves did, and when you see the percentages not to say start with sexual harassment, from psychic pressures. More than 45% of textile industry workers are exposed to mobbing after all relevant research. All of this together, all of this together, there's even a little pay. On average about a thousand 600, a thousand 700 kunas, including inside and transport costs and what is called a warm meal. Now I'm actually asking is it possible that there's nothing in this country that can be done on their own, to improve the position of these workers or these workers? Maybe we should talk to those workers because there are over 80% of them in this dam. And when we talk about it, when we talk about it, someone here today mentioned the issue of sickness and going to sick leave, which is extremely sensitive, of course, to this, because it's because it's because it's also about children's pains and illnesses, and it's about keeping them pregnant, but it's also about all the diseases that these workers have unfortunately earned in their long-term work. And I have to remind you one more time, as I did in that one replica, it's not surprising that this is the situation where the views of the chief state inspector are the way he said some time ago on "Open." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83170	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83171	Thank you very much. My colleague said, quote: "The government did not move from the beginning in relation to the leather and textile industries.", which is not true because we heard the report by Minister Vukelic with a whole expert team who has been working for a long time to restructure this industry, but cannot return all decades back to what is corrupt. The second thing that's not true, you mentioned unpaid Christmases. This government must pay 3 billion kuna of court costs for the case of workers whom you have not paid in your term of office what was followed by the collective agreement. It's a conclusion. Let me finish, I listened to you. The bottom line is, this is politicizing, not interpretation, and you didn't use this, and you've been doing a lot of damage to this branch of industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83172	Replica, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83173	I'm going back to that sentence I said in my presentation. This interpretation would be credible if colleagues who signed it had done so five years earlier when they were in power and then worked on it. During these three-and-a-half years, representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community are working intensively to help both the textile and shoe industry, and we are proving to be clear examples of over 30 companies that the Government has helped in one way or another, and that it is only about 20 million that you keep mentioning because it is 20 million times more than the previous government that has stepped up from the only solution to the textile and shoe industry problem through bankruptcy. This government is working and of course it can't be solved overnight, it has a program to solve the textile and shoe industries, and I believe that like many other sour apples and this one will successfully survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83174	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83175	Comrade Mlinarić, the government has no program. So it also writes nicely in this interpretation report and 7 months before that in response to the parliamentary question that an analysis is yet to be made. Nowhere did this government say when this analysis would end in order to make up a strategy, a programme, etc., based on this analysis. That's what it's all about. So I'm just saying and repeating what the government has written here on its own. It seems to me that she will remain consistent from beginning to end. It met and formed various committees, commissions, I don't know what, it made up analyses that were never, in fact, either seen the light of the day or the strategies that had been adopted. And when I was talking about Christmases, my colleague Hebrang mentioned, I mentioned Christmases because of the case of "Herac" and the unpaid Christmases to textile workers and the reason why these textile workers were strikers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83176	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83177	A colleague replicates the correction of an incorrect quote, I warn only This Regulation shall enter [[/Intruder: Which article?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83178	They're replicas. Look. 152.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83179	Or something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83180	It's pretty close. ... Three pages, four lists. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83181	One short replica to fellow Sobol when she asked about the Bennetton case. I believe that colleague Sobol is aware that neither legislative nor executive power can act on the power of judgment. But I assure you, I assure you, we have both done as a policy and as a city administration all to help these workers who have had objective problems. We have done everything to make this media, to make it media transparent, so that they can freely articulate all justified views and unfortunately, I say can't act how or at what speed, but hopefully a reasonable deadline and a judicial authority responds to their little envious situation. But I assure you that as a city, then city administration, we have done everything we can to "Benetton", in no way do we act semicolonially, not to meet him, not to release him from communal and indemnities, but to really act as a good employer there. Unfortunately, you yourself know that for such an action it is necessary to take part in some other segments of government. But I say we assure you that we have indeed done everything and, politically, helped these women to come and seek their justice, that they can cast out their justice. And not only that, but also to say this truth which is truly cruel and which shows that this situation is Croatia as a transition country, is indeed many act as if it were a colony and not a country that has its own laws and that must first and foremost protect the rights of people who work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83182	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83183	Well, when I mentioned that case I really have no intention of affecting the work of the judicial authorities, I don't know when they will and what decision will they make? I just know that under the law within six months, the disputes that are going on, regarding working relationships, are to be completed. It's been over since then, probably about a year. But what I do, and I can partly agree with what you said. Did we all do everything we could? I don't know, maybe we did, but obviously then we didn't get to the public to hear it and see it, because maybe that way we would encourage others to talk about what's going on in their workplace. But what I can't figure out is, that always every time, and now I especially apostrophe workers in the textile industry, it turns out that they're wrong, that they're lying, and then I can't understand that we're such a country, that we're allowed someone to come, I don't know that buying the sub doesn't matter now, probably all by the law of certain drives, hires workers, and then gives yourself the right to do what they want. In doing so, breaking all possible legal regulations of this country and then still blackmailing them in a way that, if it's not going to be the way we think it's supposed to be, we're going to have a nice key in the lock, close the drive, so let's let 100, 200, 300 workers run out of work. Here, that's what it's like for me as a council representative. It's not clear that that's how it works for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83184	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83185	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The textile and footwear industries are of more important economic activities. They are an important source of employment, entrepreneurship and GDP. The textile and footwear industry participates with 1% of Croatia's GDP, employs 33,000 workers and is registered with around 800 economic operators. The Croatian textile, leather, footwear industry is not competitive enough on the market in particular with the aim of increasing competitiveness. It is necessary primarily to change the structure of these two industrial branches, to achieve a transition for business in the production of their own products by adapting the design and quality of their products, as well as technology and marketing, increasingly demanding markets, and increasingly based on their own knowledge, skills and creativity, which requires significantly greater investment in the development of new products, investments and modernisation and the application of modern technologies, and investment in education and improvement. However, these activities still find their place in the economies of developed countries of the world. In order to maintain, these branches in the world adapt the design and quality of their products, technology of their production and marketing to an increasingly demanding market. The production of textiles and clothing and in the European Union has a long tradition and great economic significance. The European textile and clothing industry is located in the intensive process of modernisation and structural adaptation. The European Union promotes this process and facilitates the structural adjustments of producers through... and regional measures, not directly through State aid in this sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll say a few words... the recent conclusions of the Council of the Association of the Coal and Processing Industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Council shall seek and require state institutions to strengthen the supervision and implementation of thorough control of shoe imports and market surveillance in the review of the quality of goods and of the quality of materials and of the health and reality of the imported price. The Council shall require consistent application of the Directive of the European Union to leather and footwear by bodies controlling the import and transport of leather and footwear. It is then necessary to include the Association of the leather-processing industry in consumer education and consumer information programmes on products that are harmful to health. There are other suggestions, but now he'd still move on, I think it deserves a big giant, former combination of tires and Borovo shoes, and the current one deserves attention to say a few words about him as well. The specificities of the pines are specific to other branches. Since 1997, after returning from persecution and peaceful reintegration set up, we have been left at the height of the war to deal with world companies. We are the only few Croatian companies in this branch that have survived and we are proud of it. Now we are at the turning point and we are looking for an answer to how to create conditions for competitiveness on the world market. In Borov, there is no problem due to the current business from 1998 to today. The problems in Boro are the consequences of the war, they are not solved, they are still not solved. This government has begun the process and is trying to resolve it to the end. And it needs to be solved as quickly and as best as possible by war-torn buildings, infrastructure. It's not rehabilitated, and it doesn't lead to a state of global and domestic competition. Equipment stolen. Someone may have stolen it during 1991 to 1997. We're not able to buy new equipment ourselves. We need funds, development, employment to write off the loan, which would provide the full supply, provide the necessary new equipment and be ready for technological progress. The burden of pre-war obligations that Borovo has no, the sources of coverage are EUR 4 million. Credit write-offs and so on. I must say that the new leadership of Borov has the will, has the knowledge but has no means. Before the war the largest giant, combined tires and shoes Borovo, Vukovar of 18 thousand employees of the trade network today has about 1000 employees. War-broken parts of infrastructure have not been restored. The ruins weren't removed. Equipment stolen and destroyed. We're not able to solve these problems on our own. The property's under fiduciary control. The burden of pre-war obligations and I mentioned EUR 4 million. The government of the Republic of Croatia showed great interest in Borovo two years ago. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Polancec and Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic, who visited the Borov plants himself and convinced himself of the victims of Vukovar and the giant himself. Help is already visible but is still insufficient. We support government measures taken and we are confident that this year the government will invest more funds to make the wounded and now the small and indestructible giant Borovo stand on its solid ground. Despite these difficulties, Borovo is exporting his shoes to European Union countries that have recognised the quality that Borovo has enjoyed for 70 years in Europe and the world. So, Mr. Minister, thank you, thank you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Borovs for what has been done so far. And we recommend that you triple investment in Borovo this year, which will justify hiring new employees and product quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83186	Thank you. Five-minute debate, PGS Representatives' Club, respected representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues allow us to say, on behalf of the club that initiates this interpretation, let us say our final thoughts. First of all, we would also like to point out that we are satisfied with today's debate because it seems that this debate has resulted in several things that are of global importance. First of all, the conclusion that Croatia can only develop evenly in the future and that it must maintain all those activities in order for all its regions to develop evenly. The second important thing that came from the debate is the fact that it is clear to both us and the public that more seriously than so far, we should seek to level imports and exports because if our imports grow the way we grow imports of textile footwear products and production falls the way it stagnates, then it is certain that in the future we will be the country of imports. And given that, we question a whole series of things to higher education and so on. The fact is that the debate did not disprove the fact that the textile industry is in huge trouble. And that is why we think that we have the right to say that indeed, given the problems that are currently great in this sector today, that all the activities that all Croatian governments have done backwards around the textile-buttering industry have been insufficient, and so are the measures that the Minister and the Government have spoken of. A simple decline in this sector's participation in exports from 14% to 9%, a decline in industrial production, a fall in employment simply speaks. I think all the measures that seemed not to slow down that eventually someone did make them absolutely insufficient. When we add this really average of wages, and again we add that this is not the average wage of workers, but the average of salaries of all including management structures in the textile industry, then we really think that we must be ashamed of the fact that maybe someone in this country in eight or ten hours of working time per month gets 1800 or 2,000 kuna and don't give God less than that. We think it's really groundless. That is why we are pleased that the interpretation triggered a debate on a serious problem. We hope, Mr. President of the Parliament, you are now in one debate, but we hope to have a debate soon and about the shipbuilding that has been mentioned several times today. And I will again show from the speaker the programme of restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding went to Brussels and as representatives of the Croatian Parliament we get information from newspapers. With all the good will of the government to talk about it, we don't think it's a method. And you will receive tomorrow's written encouragement and in that sense from us. As far as this particular one is concerned, what the Interpellation has proposed. Eight measures is very correct. There's a complete program here that's, like, how Belgium got rid of it. He was talked about by his colleague Pavlic earlier in detail. I'll just mention one thing. It says here in point 8, 7 of funding 20 plus 15 billion invested by the Belgian government in the recovery of its textile industry. And point 8. mentions something that is a painful point of the Croatian state, which is that the programme of the recovery of the textile industry in Belgium is also part of the Belgian regions. So I'm taking this opportunity to say that as a state, we're less efficient amongst other things and because we still have three levels of government of local self-government, a county that is not a region and a state. While all European Union countries have 4 levels of government and have this regional self-government which, with its original resources, also participates in all these problems and resolves them. That's it. He'll continue his colleague, Pavlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83188	Thank you. We've got five minutes of debates now, and my colleague Pavlic, so I guess I'm guessing the esteemed representative, Walter Poropat, on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83189	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. The textile and footwear industries are highly export-oriented industrial branches that employ 90% of the capacity in export operations mainly for processing, but in recent years their production has been exposed to strong competition from the Far East, which is increasingly difficult to carry on both domestic and foreign markets due to low prices. I volunteered for this debate and for that because the Labinstin I came from in the late '90s in the textile industry had a complete breakdown. Of several known factories such as 25. May Rasa do DILA, factory in Dubrovnik, municipalities, in the Municipality of Saint Sunday where factories worked hundreds of valuable women. After the collapse of these factories, their workers were out of work, and the vast majority of them are still at the employment office today. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the state is obliged to encourage economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and to take care of the economic development of all its regions. The salaries of workers in these activities are 50% of the average salary in the country, and the average net salary in the textile industry was 2 thousand 437 kuna, and in the obaškar’s thousand 963 kuna. This is a burning problem for which we must find economic strength, but also political will. Otherwise, there will be a situation in which different obligations will increase the opportunities of businesses and endanger their business. Representatives of the textiles and footwear industry warn that given the current situation, it is impossible to continue operations without urgent State aid and support. They also highlight examples of some countries where state intervention allows for the survival of these industrial branches. This mentions the example of Belgium, which invested 2 billion euros in the recovery of the textile industry, and the result of such a decision is that the Belgian textile industry today has 50,000 employees. So a highly developed European, Western European country has such a way of approaching this problem. The social partners in these industrial branches, so the Union of textiles, footwear, leather, tires of Croatia, the Association of textiles and skins of Croatian industry in Croatia and a group of employers outside this association have already made a number of efforts to encourage change in order to increase competitiveness and a way that is precedent, but also a positive example of how social dialogue can be used as a process of creating the knowledge needed by industries to improve its market position. In 2003 and the Development Strategy for textiles and footwear and concluded a contract on sectoral social dialogue and strategic partnership for the first of these species not only in Croatia but also beyond its borders, which is certainly commendable. In view of all of the above, the Interpelliers suggest that the Croatian Parliament, following the completion of the Interpelation debate, draw conclusions that will oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change its policy towards textile and footwear policy, which I believe should certainly be supported as well as what the IDS Club deems necessary to support this Interpletion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83190	Thank you. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83191	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me a few sentences, I would actually say once again an explanation of the repetition of what I was already saying in the introduction about the report that the Government gave about this impelation. Once again, I will make it clear, so the government's position is to propose to the Parliament that the Interpellation be rejected, because the Interpellation refers and calls for the government's responsibility to withdraw its economic policy for the 2003-2007 term, which is simply not true. There is no deviation from the policy outlined in the government's work for this four-year period. And also this Interpellation is meant to say that this Croatian government towards the textile industry is irresponsible, irresponsible, almost maternal relationship, and that is simply not true. And through everything I've been saying in the introduction, you clearly see exactly the opposite. This Croatian government has clearly indicated from the very beginning in its economic policy the importance of production for Croatia, the importance of strengthening production and strengthening exports. And the textile industry is production, the shoe industry is production. Therefore, all those measures that have been led, implemented, programmes that are driven towards production are also affected by textile industries, which I specifically did not stress, believing that we all know about... measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll just mention some. So even when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, and let's not forget, the largest number of companies in the textile industry are small and medium-sized enterprises, a very small number of large companies. And when we say that we have 2 years of credits favourable, with 2 to 4% interest, for new technologists only 2% interest where 3 and a half billion credits placed on the market for entrepreneurs in these loans are both textiles and footwear. When we say that we brought this, the Parliament passed the Investment Encouragement Act exclusively aimed at production and allowed the company's existing company to have incentive funds to invest, so again and in this it includes textiles. When we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises 20 million a year for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the grant is shared for new products, for new technologies, and you will allow, here someone mentioned 200 thousand kuna which is it. One small company or medium 200 kuna means 2 and 3 new machines and a lot of technology that it introduces in order to simply gain greater competitiveness. When we talk about quality control, when we talk about customs and customs crossings, then it should be recalled that this government has also encouraged the Customs Administration to tighten the control at the crossings, that the many crossings are somehow put under control, under control, the technical regulations adopted by the State Inspectorate should work to control the quality of those products that we import. And in the export offensive, a special chapter is dedicated to that. And in the export offensive, since textiles are 90% of exports, the textile industry is also oriented. Therefore, there is no deviation from what is said. I talked in the introduction about special measures since both the textile industry is due to and its heritage, because of and the process of globalisation that is taking place not only in Croatia, therefore additional measures have been implemented so far to facilitate and implement these 20 million kunas which I have spoken with and with the means of resolving, reprogramming debts, therefore measures have been taken, measures that should have been implemented that should have made it easier for the textile and shoe and leather industry, so life and training them would have been, for survival. Therefore, the refusal, therefore, is also a proposal to reject the government's Interpellation of Responsibility, not on the measures contained in this Interpellation. Those measures are familiar to me. They're measures and they'd put employers on when we talk about textiles and leather and unions. Those measures were I would say some already staged and carried out. These measures are part of what we're working on now and this report is very responsible, seriously, self-critically said, all we've been doing so far is not enough to save those 30 and some thousand jobs in the long term. I also need to do this because I think this debate is a good debate, because it is a very important sector of the economy such as textile, leather, shoe industry and shoe industry that is good to discuss and it is good to hear reflections that go with suggestions on what and how to do. But I repeat all these measures that are mentioned, some of them are also in realisation, all of them and the subject of making what I said. That since last year, through the creation of the Industrial Policy Strategy and so on, the Strategy for the Development of textile, leather and shoe industries, we want to do a long-standing programme of rehabilitation, consolidation, restructuring and development of our textile industry, and that is what in this month, together with our partners as an employer's association, therefore employers on it and working on them and with the trade unions that are material, we will get the draft, we will establish and this will be the basis for our industrial policy in the textile sector, the basis and for discussions and negotiations with the European Commission, the basis and for what we want to achieve these 3.4 years of the programme that we are going to implement in the rehabilitation and restructuring of our textile industry so that it can survive, in order for it to move from breaking operations to what we want to do, and certainly not cheap products and mass production of Croatia, but rather a quality product in which has Croatian designs, in which it has therefore has more quality goods that will still find its customers in the market and the EU. Therefore, all these measures so far, what will be done and set out as a strategic project for next year, will be what this Croatian government clearly says. No one has forgotten the textiles, nor will they forget them, and efforts seem to be made, and even stronger efforts will be made to preserve those jobs. This Croatian government clearly said Croatia needs shipbuilding, Croatia needs textile industry. I don't want to, and it's really not good to talk about why she passed the government. It would have been easier for us if something had been done by the government. It's not. That's past the end of time. We have done in these three years what we have done, we see that the further trend falls when we talk about production in textiles is therefore present, that we need additional efforts to do, we will do so together with partners and employers and trade unions, along with clear and you Assembly representatives. And I welcome those who are in their best interest to encourage the debate, to make further suggestions to wish that this debate in this direction goes on and to make a contribution. She'll give. But I repeat, the responsibility in the sense that it does not implement the policy it has drawn up, the responsibility to treat the textile industry unseriously does not exist, and that is why it is the Government's proposal for the Parliament to reject this Interpletion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83192	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83193	Mr. Vice-President, Minister Vukelic said that this Croatian government needs shipbuilding and that it will support it. Well, I don't think that's right, Mr. Minister. If that's true, then why didn't the current Government and you, as Minister of Economy, at least throw money into Victor Lenac and other private companies as the previous Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83194	Finally, go ahead. Dear Representative Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83195	Here's the esteemed ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Let me thank you, on behalf of the promoter, all of you therefore who have participated in this debate. I think it's a good thing this problem is being discussed right here in the Croatian Parliament. After a long time, we had the opportunity to talk specifically about a life problem, a problem that burdens a large number of our citizens. The debate has therefore shown that this problem of the textile footwear industry is not only the problem of Međimurje or Northwestern County but of the whole of Croatia, that again it is not just the textile footwear industry but the overall economy in the Republic of Croatia, because it is obvious that we also need the overall economic strategy by which we would all act together. Let me point out here again the union's position that warns us to count down the last few minutes. This means that they say that within a year to a maximum period of one and a half days, concrete steps should be taken after which almost half of the jobs for which the perpetrators are not insured may be lost, and no work in other sectors may be secured within a short period of time. So I think now is the time to think about this and take all of it together, all together, so some measures. I agree, therefore, that it is not a matter of responsibility which is therefore to blame for this condition, but the question is, what measures will we take. However, we remain as the Proposer of Interpellation to the content of our Interpellation which speaks of responsibility because we are aware, i.e. We have the data and the fact that there has been a decline in exports for the last three years, a decline in employment, a decline in industrial production, but we point out that these measures should be adopted by the ministry. So these eight of our points, I think these measures are very important to save the textile and shoe industry in the Republic of Croatia. And that is only possible for all partners who, therefore, are both unions and employers, especially the Government, and it seems to us that in this sense the government was least engaged and that it was at least included in that part. That is what I have already mentioned before, and the agreement on sectoral, social dialogue and strategic partnership signed in 2005 by representatives of the employers' and trade unions, who on several occasions called on the government to join them. Here I have a letter from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so the state-level chamber, their industry sector since 13.11.2006, which writes the parent associations at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, are familiar with the state of these two activities regularly on emerging situations and with the proposals for measures to improve the situation in its sessions and points to a resolution ministry. So, in the spring of both associations, they asked for talks on certain terms with Mr. Minister which we are delivering to you on the occasion of this memo. Until today, however, we have failed to realize the requested meeting. If, therefore, this Interpletion is not adopted, I hope that at least the result of this initiative will be that, at the very least, that both unions and employers and governments will finally sit together because only together can and can we solve this problem. I am glad to hear, however, the government's explicit opinion that the textile industry and the shoe industry in Croatia should be preserved. So hopefully, then, it will still start this year to solve this problem. But I'm saying, we're staying at our Interpellation to strengthen this initiative for the rest of our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83196	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83197	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this government has done the following in the last three years. Helping the state, turning the state's claim into a equity stake, the style of Pozega 4 million kuna, Slavonia MK Osijek 14 million kuna, Sloga Koprivnica decision by the Government in 2006 27 million. State guarantees "Vartex d.d." Varazdinu, Privredna banka Zagreb, through the Privredna banka Zagreb 2 million and 700 million euros. Zagreb bank 3 million and 900, HABOR 50 million kuna. On the positive opinions of the Croatian Privatisation Fund "Trimot d.d." Imotski, in 2005 6 and a half million, in 2006 3 million, 4 and a half million, since 2007. 3.2. "Goricanka" Velika Gorica 0.9 million kuna, Gorica 3 million and 700, Slavonia Osijek 3.3. The Požega style in 2007 is 5 million kuna. Surely this is not enough and we cannot compare the Croatian and textile industries with the Belgian and European Union countries because we have been in a different position since 1990, not only because since 1990, but what happened to the industry since 1945. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83199	...until 1990, that history couldn't be forgotten. We should not forget, unfortunately, and that is the foundation of the present.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83200	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83201	We still have the Interpletion on the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia due to the deviation from the policy established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period of mandate 2003 to 2007. And with regard to the vote on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MBS Club, I request, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that this Interpellation be voted in a nominal vote. The conclusion of the Interpellation is. The proposal for a conclusion reads, the Interpelling of the Government of Croatia's responsibilities for the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia is rejected due to the deviation from the policy set out in the Government of Croatia's programme for the term of office. Whoever votes for this conclusion votes with this plus. Not plus, but for. And whoever votes against the conclusion votes against it. So, I preferred this electronic vote. Yeah. It's time to vote. Whoever votes, who wants to vote for the conclusion, vote for it, and who wants to vote against the conclusion, votes against it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83202	Jeane Adam, Đurđa Adlešić, Irena Ahel - za, Zdenko Antešić - v, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Željka Antunović, Franjo Arapović - za, Mato Arlović - v, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - za, Štepan Bagarić - za, Ivan Bagarić - za, Marija Bajt - za, Ivo Banac, Luka Bebić - za, Marijan Bekavac - za, Jure Bitunjac - za, Florijan Boras - za, Dražan Bošnaković - za, Ljubica Brdarić, Mirjana Brnać - za, Kayo Bučan - za, Križan Baka - Žažan Baka, Žažažažan Žaža, Hražažažaža - Za, Hraža, Mir, Mira Ža Ža Ža Žažažažaž, Mir, Hr.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83203	The result is 68, by representatives and advocates for the proposal for a conclusion, 31 abstentions and 2, 31 against and 2 abstentions. So with that majority, the conclusion mentioned by the Interpellation is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing on Wednesday 14th at 9.30 with a debate on the Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2005. Secondly, the proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and on the number of ecological incidents from the Refinery of Oil and on the adoption of measures to prevent the same and proposals on the non-trust of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Branko Vukelic, etc. Thank you. I'm interrupting the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83204	We move on to the following, - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the instruments for pre-accession structural policy for the next measure prepares the list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance /IPA/ in the environmental protection sector, in Zagreb, Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 620. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go. State Secretary of the Central State Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me a few words about this agreement. The aim of this Agreement and the projects, which will be financed from it, is to provide professional assistance to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In the preparation of tender documentation for projects to be financed by the new IPA pre-accession programme. These projects, whose preparation is financed by this Agreement, are listed in the Agreement itself. The value of technical assistance is 1.46m euros, which will be financed by the European Commission through ISPA funds of 969m euros and 497m euros will be national co-financing. This national co-financing includes the Ministry of Environment Protection with 165, 900 euros and the Ministry of Agriculture with 331,000 euros. It may be important for information here to point out that the preparation of tender documentation for the actual start of technical assistance is already under way and immediately after confirming this Agreement will be able to launch a tender for services to be financed under this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83206	Thank you. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Your Honor's representative, Chesty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83207	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since we have three points in a row and the P.Z. bill's proposals. No. 620, 621 and 622 I will, in fact, very briefly in the introduction all 3 confirm. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament considered all 3 of these proposals of the law and the basis of this introduction, which the representatives of the Government expressed unanimously, and in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposed the urgent adoption of all 3 laws, a memorandum between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the first one that is for the field of environmental protection, the second one from the management of municipal waste and the third one from, I cannot remember now, from transport, the railway sector. So we suggest that all three laws be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Unanimity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83208	Are you suggesting they be brought in unanimously or is that on the Committee unanimous? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Committee or what? ... On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Honorable Representative of Širac. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83209	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with the Rules of Procedure and Article 150. The Croatian Parliament proposes the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the confirmation of this memorandum constitutes a legal basis for the use of the European Union's financial resources under the ISPA pre-accession programme for the project in question. The implementation of the project in question will ensure adequate preparation of project proposals for the IPA programme in the environmental protection sector and the completion of the IPA environmental protection strategy. This will enable the effective use of the funds available to the IPA environmental protection programme for the period 2007-2013. the years and the alignment with the legal acquis in the field of environmental protection. In the discussion on the Committee, it is pointed out that in the text of the proposal for a memorandum in Croatian, it is necessary in Annex 3, point 2, Section 10 of the first sentence, sub-paragraph and to complete the statement in accordance with the original in English, and to replace the words no matter what the words in which the lower value is taken into account. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83210	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83211	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The 2004 Council Regulation created a legal basis for the approval of pre-accession programmes for assistance to the Republic of Croatia from all three pre-accession European Union programmes, and as you know it is the PHARE programme, ISPA programme and SAPHARD programme totalling EUR 245 million. However, the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to benefit from these funds needed to produce a number of technical and other documents, so through our Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, it was launched by these funds a series of projects in the protection of the environment, so let me just point out some before I go back in detail to the explanation of this memo. The Ministry of Environment through the Environmental Protection Fund has launched a recovery of 204 municipal waste dumps for which contracts are required, and at this point it is either completed on 164 buildings. A major project has been launched to handle packaging waste, collect and process car tyres, collect and process old batteries, oils, batteries, etc. More than 2 billion kuna are provided for the implementation of these programmes this year through the Environmental Protection Fund. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy through Croatia also implements wastewater protection and treatment projects worth 800 million kuna and water supply projects worth 700 million kuna. Therefore, Croatian Waters invests in realising environmental protection of about a billion and a half kuna of quality funds. In order to be able to use these funds from the pre-accession funds, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded with the European Commission a Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund in 10 months 2005 and the appointment of the National Coordinator for the ISPA programme and regulated mutual obligations and relations and rights and obligations of all bodies and persons participating in the implementation of the pre-accession assistance programme of the European Union. The national preparation coordinator for ISPA in cooperation with the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission services have carried out the selection of projects that have been nominated to receive grants under the ISPA pre-accession assistance programme. A project has been selected to prepare a list of projects for IPA pre-accession assistance instruments in the environmental protection sector. Our Government, as well as the European Commission, accepted the proposed project and signed a memorandum on the financing of the project. The Memorandum gives the Republic of Croatia support to the European Union for the implementation of pre-accession measures in the environmental protection sector and provides for a technical, legal and administrative framework within which the project will be implemented. These issues are detailed in Annexes 1, 2 and 3 which form an integral part of this Memorandum. As the secretary of state said, the total value of this project is 10 million 687 thousand kuna, and IPA funds are provided at 66% while our funds through these two ministries, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry are secured by 34%. The aim of this project is to prepare project proposals for the IPA programme in the waste management and water management sector, which means water supply and waste water management, which will be ready for implementation from 2007 to 2013. The aim is also to complement the IPA strategy for the environmental protection sector. I must point out here that thanks to the work of our state institutions and of course the national coordinator and these three ministries in which I include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture will make full use of the funds from these programmes, and that has not been the case with any country in transition because they have failed to use these funds until the end. The preparation of projects to be financed through this IPA programme shall include the following. Making the master plan, study of feasibility of financial and economic analysis, environmental impact assessment, design of an idea project, cost assessment, investment programme, tender documentation and, of course, IPA funding requirements. The secretary of state has already said that one part of the activity is already under way and the deadline for the completion of this project is 31.12.2010. It would further point out that a detailed list of projects in preparation for IPA funding and order of priorities for realisation is listed in Annex 1. So I would say only the most significant. In the area of waste management, it is the Regional Waste Management Centre Bikarac, the second phase in Sibenik County. Then, the Regional Waste Management Centre in Istria, Split County, northwestern Croatia, eastern Slavonia, Zadar and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And the programme of closure and rehabilitation of the Sovjak dump in the Primorje-Gorski County. So most of Croatia is covered through these projects. In air protection, this is an assessment of the area of the heating system that is powered by renewable energy sources. In the case of water supply, it is a regional water supply system in eastern Slavonia, Bjelovar-Biogorje County, Karlovac-Kryzeva County, Sisak-Moslavina County and Brod-Posavina County. In the treatment and treatment of waste water, these are wastewater systems and waste water treatment plants in Osijek, Đakov, Sisak, Novi Gradiška, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar. And finally, of course, this is also the addition of the IPA environmental protection strategy for the Republic of Croatia and the overall list of projects. Based on the data provided by our National Coordinator and Ministry, I have tried to assess or sum up the total value of all investment investments for which we are given a chance over the next five years to make use of some of these European Union funds, total investment investment amounts to 524.75 million euros. For the implementation of this Memorandum of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture are responsible. The funds for the implementation of this Memorandum are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club proposes the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance and an emergency procedure for its adoption for the purpose of ensuring appropriate project proposals which will be able to run for grant through the IPA pre-accession assistance instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83212	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83213	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the following measure: preparation of a list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for Environmental Protection. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Unanimously with 94 votes to accept this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83214	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance of the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the grant of assistance from the instruments for pre-accession structural policy for the next measure of the regional waste management centre Bikarac, in Sibenik-Knin County, Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 621 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Spatial and Environmental Protection and by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83215	Thank you very much. The project whose funding agreement here is proposed to confirm will be implemented in Sibenik-Knin County and means the construction of a new municipal waste disposal site in Bikarac area, the rehabilitation and closure of existing dumps, the rehabilitation of waste dumps in Pirovac, and the implementation of a pilot project on recycling and waste classification in the town of Sibenik. What is proposed to finance the foundation of this Memorandum is in fact the first phase of the overall resolution of the method of municipal waste disposal in the Sibenik-Knin County because the second phase is envisaged behind this, which will provide a complete solution for all places in the county. The total value of this investment is 8.8m euros, out of which ISPA funds are proposed to finance 6m euros while national co-financing is 2.8m euros divided between the environmental fund's assets of 1,252m euros and the city of Sibenik's 1.57m euros. The project's expected duration and completion is by the end of 2010. The project will be implemented through 6 contracts for the purchase of goods and services, as well as in the case of a preliminary preparation project for the preparation of tender documentation for the opening of the tender procedure for the implementation, purchase of goods and services, the implementation of works is ongoing and will be possible to open the tender procedure immediately following the confirmation of this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83216	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Honorable Representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83217	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Namely, this law has also been reviewed by the Committee and it also has an objection to a part of the text translated from English to Croatian, so allow me to once again emphasise the Committee's position. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament propose a law to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the confirmation of that memorandum constitutes a legal basis for the use of the European Union's financial assistance under the ISPA pre-accession programme for the project in question. The project will provide and improve waste management standards in Sibenik-Knin County. The project is divided into two stages. And this measure covers only the first phase of the project, which includes the construction of a new regional waste management centre, the resolution and closure of the existing dump. Recovering the municipal waste dump in Pirovac. The implementation, implementation of a pilot of a recycling and waste classification project in the town of Sibenik. In the discussion on the Committee, it is pointed out that in the text of the translation of the memorandum into Croatian, it is necessary in Annex 3.2 to Section 10, 2 of the first sentence of subparagraph (a) to complete the calculation according to the original in English and to replace any less words, taking into account the lower value. I'm asking the Proposer to accept that because we haven't written any amendments. It's text editing when printing. Otherwise, the Committee unanimously supported the proposal for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83218	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and State, we're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83219	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished fellow MPs. You know that so far, through CARDS and PHARE programmes, the Republic of Croatia has received around EUR 10 million for harmonisation. the kind of modernisation of our legislation and the development of sufficient capacity to protect the environment. As of this year, the acquisition of concrete financial resources for nominated investments is also starting to take place in the protection of the environment. How important this is to us as a relatively small country per area and per capita and perhaps economically, but still large in the potential of using the best natural resources important for sustainable development, we will be more clear to all if we just try to reasonably perceive the data. That recycling only saves about 10 young trees, about 50,000 gallons of water and about 40% of the energy needed to produce paper from the original wood... and reduce pollution by 95% compared to normal production of the same amount of paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we say that plastics should depend on the subtype of 100 to even 400 years for decommissioning at the dump, and that only enough to recycle 5 2litre bottles of... In order to obtain plastic material for the production of a ski jacket, I do not think we should continue to waste words on the necessity of our country's full and unpreserved direction towards the highest European and world standards in preserving the natural environment for future generations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, the Council of the Republic of Croatia has almost a historical responsibility to support, encourage and make better use of those standards in the protection of the environment that are best and most acceptable for our country and the perspective of using the natural resources of future generations. To encourage the expert bodies of the competent ministries to develop and propose more modern and financially acceptable models for investment in the field of environmental protection, so that the effects of our country's overall efforts in this field are greater and better both in ecological and economic terms. Of course, we at the HDZ Club give full support to the adoption of this Bill proposal and from this place I publicly express much satisfaction with the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Also thanks and professional team from the Ministry of Finance and the undertaken activities of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in particular over the last two years and because of the fact that exceptional environmental effects have been achieved, and already other countries and authorities in the "west management" are very interested in our models of waste management that we have introduced or are now introducing into everyday practice. I think we can be proud of these results and wish them success in further work. I am also pleased to say with great pleasure that Sibenik is the one. Sibenik-Knin County at the very top for the success of using the pre-accession ISPA fund. In October last year, a key financial document was signed, a financial memorandum providing as much as EUR 6 million of co-financing from the pre-accession ISPA fund, with experts from the relevant ministries and the Fund. Experts say this project is extremely complicated and procedural documentation and technically extremely demanding for processing and thus our joint success is greater. Congratulations to everyone who helped us with that. Congratulations and, of course, to our team in Sibenik and I think they should be hired from this place to help others with their knowledge and experience in the management of pre-accession funds and training of domestic human resources, which is also the goal of the ISPA Fund. For the time being, according to the application which has passed Brussels, the project is envisaged to be implemented through two phases of which the first stage is heavy about EUR 11 and a half million and solves the most important issues of future waste management in the county and without greater co-financing of the city of Sibenik and the Environment Fund would not be possible to realise. Around the Fund and the city are co-financed equally to the full. The project was designed so that in the first phase it was completely rescheduled and closed by the old tide of the largest dump in Bikarac County. A new modern centre is being created with all the prescribed protections and environmental standards for the management of municipal waste. There are equipment and working machines for the center. The pilot shall be carried out a separate waste collection project and technical preparations shall be carried out for the second phase. The second phase will cover the total recovery and closure of all previous inadequate and unsettled sites for waste disposal in the area of the entire county. Construction of two modern stop stations operated in the county so that the other units of local self-government have fewer transport costs to the regional centre. Purchase of special vehicles for transport from stop stations to the regional waste management centre. According to the second phase of the project, it will be technically but also financially demanding and there will be a serious job to produce documentation bases for the so-called ". IPA app because such a large job could otherwise be financed. Once the centre is built it will be managed by waste according to the highest European standards and only one fifth of today's mass of municipal waste will be postponed in a way that has nothing to do with different landfills. Because he takes special care and treats the ground, the precipitation and... Water and air. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our team in Sibenik is already initiating contacts with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Co-operation Fund to prepare the documentation for the financing of the second phase and, of course, we want to continue to have full work and happiness to achieve the stated goal. We are here to give them full support in these efforts. As regards the first phase of the project, Sibenik Unit and implementation projects in the City Cleanness Company, which is designated as the holder of the total project of the regional centre Bikarac and is already preparing all necessary documentation. It means a total of 6 tender files for work, for technical assistance, for public relations and for the procurement of equipment pilot project for separate collection of waste and for the supervision of works and forwarded to competent ministries. We expect that a delegation from the European Commission will soon receive all the tender files we have submitted and that we will launch the first tender in the procedure in the spring. So soon, experts from the European Commission delegation are on the move, and for this reason, we cannot set a deadline for the competition to be announced more precisely. These days, much work is being done in the county and at the organisation of the signing of the main County Agreement for Bikarac, means an agreement in agreement with local self-government units for the regional centre. This document is extremely important because it is one of the conditions for finally obtaining funds from the Fund. In addition to those activities of the project, units of preparation and re-engineering companies are introduced in order to introduce business standards adapted to the future regional centre and to introduce a special department of internal control of all processes in projects and ongoing business. Finally, I use the opportunity to propose concrete measures for the redesign of our own cost-effectives at all levels in such a way that both formally and truly, if necessary and the specific rules, we strengthen the role of ISPA sectoral coordinators, regardless of where the ministry is currently located, because they must have a concrete and greater operational power to make more effective and faster operational decisions and organise day-to-day activities at implementation... and to initiate the establishment of a specific body for the preparation of pre-accession funds documentation in order to move faster towards the objective and to have only one point from the end-user to the European Commission delegation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two proposed changes are operational and would contribute to making the whole administrative process significantly soon, which could mean a lot more funding from the funds in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83220	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83221	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State Dalic and Mr. Secretary of State Family. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83222	Dear Representative Topic, one second, I beg you. They're here all wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83223	Dear colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83224	One second, hold on a second. There's a complex application here that's wrong. On behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Markov. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83225	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, there is no sustainable, there is no quality, and above all there is no reasonable development without solving the burning precondition for development, especially in those areas of the Republic of Croatia that are particularly sensitive, not to say particularly high quality, which is certainly a Adriatic plum, a space that is often mentioned as the most important resource. Of course, there is also a need for a prerequisite for him to remain that quality. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to approach the solution at this point in time with a spatial regulation that should specify how much and where it can be, and we cannot do so to say how much in the Adriatic and Adriatic islands there is room for hotel beds, how much for the people who will stay there, how much for the day-to-day visitors, and simply by projections we try to define which are not only the values of space but what are the potentials of space. Because in a situation where we don't have defined potential space, then it's very difficult to defend ourselves from the dangers of attacking that space. The dumps, the garbage, all that does is one of those that threatens space and people. Fighting with it can only be complete, can only be fully organized but also unique. Why am I saying that? We have so far witnessed in this short and long Croatian history that there have been various models of waste disposal systems, ways of taking care of this garbage, there have been various ideas and in our Sibenik-Knin County as well as how to organize garbage collection on islands or on land. And the light of day has generally not seen a single solution so far. I am also convinced that this is a solution offered at Bikarac as a regional centre on a good track to address the issue of regional waste disposal in a quality way, which would cover the needs and needs of both the economy and the population and the space of Sibenik-Knin County. Of course, the problems that will remain and after Bikarac has received a building permit and after its recovery and after the transition to the second phase and after the use of pre-accession European Union funds are the problems to be considered today. In fact, we are all also witnessing that resolving this problem should be consistent with the possibility of our citizens. Namely, the question of the price at which the waste will be taken care of, the prices paid by households, the increasing municipal fees that are clearly necessary, and if we want high standards, we must also have that part respected. But the fact is that in some units local self-government faces the leaders of these units of local self-government, which is, of course, a prerequisite especially when it comes to tourist sites for the construction of waste systems, bio-cleaners, those excellences that we need to provide to ourselves and tourists very much. The various models that have been tested have led to the fact that in some forecasts such burdens can be completely passed on to our citizens to our users. Of course it's part of the entire civilization culture and it won't stop. But that's why it's good, and I think this Bikarac project could, in another way, meet these challenges, including these financial challenges that are not at all ignored. Because, of course, one such dump where the regional centre from all other areas of the county through 2 or 3 will bring total waste to the centre and further recycle, destroy or prepare for another function, that it will require certain costs. As a result, it is also necessary to fully agree with the units of local self-government as soon as possible and to agree on relations that should be governed so that one such activity can already be planned precisely now, but also to see what kind of additional cost it would be to our citizens and to how much more quality and better way of dealing with waste could have a negative impact on the other side, clearly increasing the costs of any high-priced daily life. Without clearly wanting to express itself negatively under this Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I thought it was quite appropriate to warn that the adoption of this bill created a good basis for these very questions that are still unsurpassed or not fully agreed. And there is a different interpretation of how this regional centre will operate operationally, then this is a good opportunity for local self-government and administration leaders to clear under the central government's custody, to take care of what is in their jurisdiction, and thus to ensure a good relationship that is the result of above all a quality step-up, but also of the need for this space to address the problem of waste recovery in exactly this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83226	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83227	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State Dalic and Mr. Secretary of State Ruzynski. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will also get involved in this debate about this proposal that I support as I believe most of it and believe all the MPs in this House, not just us MPs. I believe this proposal will be supported by all the residents of our county. The implementation of the said Memorandum constitutes a legal basis for the use of the financial resources of the European Union and the ISPA pre-accession programmes for the project in question. It should be pointed out that by leading a clear pro-European policy of the current government of Dr Ivo Sanader, Croatia has created real conditions that Croatia has become a candidate for membership in the European Union and that accession negotiations in certain chapters are going so well. That these days we have also been commended by the Commissioners of the European Community for negotiations with Croatia, Mr Degert. This is exactly the kind of policy that Croatia is able to use, and this means of pre-accession European Union programmes that we are talking about right now, which are the PHAR programme, ISPA and SAPARD. The total amount of appropriations and the funds mentioned for 2005 and 2006 is 245m euros. I am particularly pleased as a representative from Sibenik, from Sibenik-Knin County, which will solve a major municipal problem from this mentioned ISPA programme for the Bikarac project according to this Memorandum of Sibenik-Knin County. A regional waste management centre, worth according to, will be built in the first phase of project 8 million and 823 thousand dollars. Of course, the majority of these funds come from the ISPA programme, amounting to cca 6 million euros, and the rest is about half carried by the City of Sibenik and the Environmental Protection Fund. This project is extremely important for the Sibenik-Knin County because the Sibenik-Knin County has a lot of difficulties in waste management and similar problems have other counties in the country of Croatia. We now have in Sibenik-Knin County 8 active garbage dumps that use 15 cities and municipalities while 4 municipalities, in the area of 4 municipalities we have no quality, or organized waste collection. So, in our county, there are a large number of wild waste dumps. Therefore, in Sibenik-Knin County, the current situation can be said to be about three sentences like this. There are no organised, regular waste collection services throughout the county. There are a large number of wild dumps in the county that need to be closed and rehabilitated and, of course, none of these existing waste dumps meet the legal and ecological conditions that are now required and requested. Therefore, this Bikarac project is the first project in the Republic of Croatia in line with the Croatian National Waste Management Plan and is, of course, in line with the European Union directives. The construction of this regional waste management centre on Bikarac near the current dump or dump site, which should be noted, is also close to the road that goes across Boraj behind Split and, of course, close to the town of Sibenik as well as the new industrial zone Podil, means building a new regional waste management centre near the present Bikarac dump, will create conditions for quality waste management not only for the city of Sibenik but also for the entire county. When we know of how important this is not only for the quality of life in the city of Sibenik and our county this project is, it is also extremely important for economic reasons. Since Sibenik-Knin County, a county that has an extremely divorced coast and its economy is significantly dependent on tourism activity, and tourism and tourism activities are difficult to go if we do not have adequate space protection, adequate protection of the ecological protection of our coast, and it should more be pointed out that Sibenik-Knin County is also special to the great potential of drinking water which is one of the significant economic potentials and not only our county but the Republic of Croatia. Because it should be recalled that in the area of Sibenik-Knin County springs five rivers as large as possible, as small as possible, I will list some of the most important of them: Zrmanja, Krka, Cetina even therefore environmental protection is extremely important for our county. Finally, I would like to commend and acknowledge once again the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Construction for the great effects they have done in these three years, because we have provided one systematic organised policy with over 162 landfills, while significant legal acts such as the Waste Act have been passed, and a strategy for waste management has also been adopted, and many sublegal documents that allow us to systematically handle a certain type of waste. Right now, he's in action and taking care of the solid waste, i.e. old cars. This whole project, of course, has been supported by the ministry itself, but it should be pointed out and it will be my final sentence and commend the County services in Sibenik headed by former mayor Mr. Stancic, who in time recognized the problem of environmental protection and launched the whole process of taking care of it, in the making of documentation to achieve this phase in which we are. Thank you. I hope we will accept, that you will accept distinguished colleagues and colleagues this useful project not only for Sibenik but for all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83228	I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to the next point. Excuse me, replica. Honorable representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Topic, I may not have listened carefully enough to your exposure, but it seems to me that you have told me that the location of the dump is above the road and I have not understood your thought, whether it is good or good, and I believe that there is an environmental impact study of the site that must give an accurate opinion, expert opinion whether it is good or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83230	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83231	I thank my colleague Poropato for giving me the opportunity to get a little closer to explaining this case, because it is a really short time to take on this topic which is very interesting especially from the perspective of us in Sibenik so that everything can be said and explained in 10 minutes. Namely the current location of the dump is Bikarac, and I am talking about this new project called Bikarac, because it will de facto be built directly into the present location of Bikarac waste. This location without the application of modern technology and all of these protective measures is extremely unfavourable because from that location Bikarac we are in the area of Sibenik-Knin County to have nothing else to do with an extremely large number of fires that have been going on already according to whether they smoke storms or south. Once in the direction of the bridge, towards the west towards Zadar, another time in the direction of Žaborić and on the other side towards Split. So that the whole landscape of Bikarac and in the hinterland of Sibenik was surrounded by forest, which thanks to the lack of care and poor disposal of waste every few times we had big fires, and therefore the location, if properly not arranged, is really unfavourable, and on the other hand, the proximity of the road and the proximity of the coast itself, and now close to the city, has actually begun and in the beginning is the construction of a new industrial zone of Podinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83232	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83233	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the following measure: the Regional Centre for Waste Management of Bikarac in Sibenik-Knin County. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously with 95 votes to accept this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83234	We move to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on granting assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the next measure prepares the list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance /IPA/ in the transport sector, in Zagreb, Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 622 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83235	Thank you very much. The funds are intended for the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, as described for the preparation of projects to run for implementation under the IPA pre-accession programme. It is an amount of 741.7 thousand euros, from which ISP 482.1 and from the state budget on the items of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport 259.6 thousand euros. What is intended to finance this study is to conduct feasibility studies of the cost of financial analysis and environmental impact assessment for the entire length of the railway line along the 10th corridor on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and prepare an idea solution for the Zaprešić-Savski Marof railway line again along the 10th Corridor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83236	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83237	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In 2004, the European Commission adopted an accession strategy, and the Council of Europe Regulation 2004 created a legal basis for the approval of pre-accession programmes for assistance to the Republic of Croatia. This pre-accession strategy provides for Croatia in 2005/2006. the year has the possibility to use aid from all three pre-accession programmes of the European Union, the PHARE, ISPA and SAPHAARD, totalling 245 million euros. In cooperation with the competent institutions on the Croatian side with the European Commission services, a project has been approved to prepare a list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for IPA in the transport sector, based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to launch a financing procedure for the above mentioned project. As of 25 May 2006, negotiations with the European Commission were held with the Croatian delegation and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on the implementation of the financing memorandum negotiations and the final version of the financing memorandum as of 13 October 2006. The aim of the Law is to confirm the memorandum on the financing of an international contract governing the financial, technical, legal and administrative framework within which the project in question will be implemented. The total project value, as the secretary of state said, is 741 thousand euros, of which the funding of the national budget is 259 thousand euros. The main objectives of the project are the modernisation of the railway line along the Trans-European Corridor 10, which is the highest priority for Croatia. This route is also an important priority of the national transport plan and primarily a long-term transport development strategy in the Republic of Croatia. The ISPA programme in Croatia will be replaced by the IPA program. The new instrument will also be available to support measures in the transport sector in Croatia. In order to raise an empty walk in the implementation of measures between ISPA and IPA programmes, it is necessary to prepare further projects without delay with a view to making applications for IPA financing submitted before the start of the IPA programme. By taking these steps we hope that there will be a smooth transition from ISPA to IPA projects and... a program that is certainly our wish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed activities, which are briefly shown in the below, represent a logical continuation for the current IPA measures carried out in corridor 10 and are aimed at fully modernising the main railway section Zagreb-Belgrade from Vinkovac to the state border with Serbia. Modernisation of this railway is intended to increase the speed for the transport of passengers and goods, reduce travel times and improve the safety of the installation of modern communication equipment. The projects stemming from this measure and which have been submitted for IPA financing will continue to work on modernising this railway line throughout Croatia. The signing of a financing memorandum is a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of the project in question to ensure the effective use of the funds to be available in the IPA programme for Croatia for the transport sector. In addition, it will ensure continued activities in the transport sector under the ISPA programme and will contribute to the overall process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Since the implementation of the project is subject to technical and time... procedures in line with European Union rules are needed as soon as possible in order to meet all the requirements requested in time and thus make use of the resources available to the state of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For these and such reasons, and for efforts to modernise Croatian Railways, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and will vote for the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83238	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83239	Thank you very much. Here's a very short one. I was coming here with a report from the board, so we'll all unanimously support it, so here's why I think we should support it. Three reasons are fundamental. First, our national interest in preparing ourselves in this even development in order to achieve the objectives that we have defined. Second. They were signed primarily by the SAA and other agreements later, so we must accept what we have signed so far. And thirdly, we would base these three laws, but others who will come here should speed up the dynamics of preparing to enter Europe. That's three basic reasons why I say we should unanimously support these reasons. About memoranda as well as about what they contain, we support these frameworks, but these funds are primarily intended to make studies. In this case, the study would cost about 5 and a half million kunas of which about 3 and a half million were secured in European funds, the remaining difference should be ensured with us. The funds should be used to conduct studies on the railway corridor and Zaprešić-Savski Marof without that part that is already under way in the East towards Zupanja seems to me. Here are the reasons for the adoption and acceptance of these three laws unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83240	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83241	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the next measure prepares the list of priorities for the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance in the Transport Sector in Zagreb. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83242	We move to the next - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. 623 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me a few introductory sentences before the argument of the Law itself on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. At the time of the early 1990s, better said than the independence of Croatia until September '93. the years of pensions in Croatia were aligned according to the movement of nominal salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, and pursuant to Articles 30, 42 and 47. Law on basic rights in pension and disability insurance and Article 121. Pension and disability insurance laws. In September '93. In the year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in line with the Stabilisation Programme the first regulation to limit the mass of pension funds, which actually limited the level of pension harmonisation. Such a regulation was adopted by the Government in the period from October '93. the year until January '95. A year. The result of such regulations was only a partial increase in pensions in the period from '93. until '98. A year. In February '97. The Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions and Other Monetary Receipts from Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Management of Pension and Disabilities Insurance Funds has therefore been adopted for the period from 1 February '95. until December 31st, '96. in the year, pensions are adjusted according to the growth of nominal salaries of all employees in the Republic of Croatia and since 1 January '97. pensions are coordinated every 6 months according to the cost of living in the previous 6 months. However, pensions were therefore not adequately harmonised and therefore, following a series of requests for discussion, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision on 12 May 1998 and that decision effectively repealed the provisions of the Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions of February '97. This led to a legal gap with regard to the way pensions were coordinated during the period regulated by that law and for the period from 1 September '93. the year in which the coordination was carried out according to the acts of the Institute and within the limits of certain regulations of the Government that I had previously mentioned. In the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 May '98. The Law on the Transfer of State Budgets to Pension and Disability Insurance Funds and the Harmonisation of Pensions was adopted in the year. Accordingly, a specific Regulation was adopted on the basis of which the retirement adjustment was carried out in the coming period. Also based on this Regulation on the harmonisation of pensions and other monetary incomes, pensions will, therefore, be paid, those funds will be paid in addition to pensions in such a way as to sum up the amounts of 100 kuna and 6% of the pension paid for June '98. A year. A series of pensioners also filed lawsuits to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia for inadequate pension adjustment. Therefore, among other things, at the end of 2000, a Law on the increase in pensions was adopted to remove differences in pension levels achieved in different periods governing the way pensions are increased in order to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 12 May '98. in accordance with the economic opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. In July 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision to speed up the compensation of pensioners. Under that law, the right to compensation is in accordance with Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia shall be subject to the age, early age, disability and family pensions laid down in the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. A year. The difference was identified by those who retired on the day of entry into force of the law, which was at stake on 5 August 2004. Under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision, individual calculations were made for a total of 677 thousand 411 users, of whom the right to receive additional compensation was 426 thousand 309 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The total funds to remind us all together of the compensation needed for the beneficiaries who exercised such a right amounted to 11 and a half billion kuna, and already it was found necessary to secure the property for another 2.3 billion kuna on behalf of interest. As regards the compensation, it is also agreed and it is contained in the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision to execute the compensation through a specific fund. The fund is also established, the pension fund and it works. After that, the adoption of the Retirement Fund Act and the start of the execution of the compensation found that this compensation should also cover the users of the highest pensions as well as the users of family pensions. Therefore, we give these amendments and additions to the laws or to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision and create a legal framework in order to make it possible to deprive the users of the highest and family pensions once more. The users of the highest pensions who would have the right to compensation, or for which it is necessary to carry out the accounting according to our records, have 3 000 039 and the beneficiaries of family pensions 34 000 742 and who have made their pension since 1 January 1999. the year after the death of the user who made his pension by 31 December '98. A year. This number should be added to 6 thousand more users for which a manual calculation is to be carried out, meaning that the final calculation of the compensation should cover a total of 43,000 781 family and maximum pension beneficiaries. For the purpose of carrying out the compensation, it will take a total of no more than 1.4 billion kuna, and with these amendments and additions, we have also found that any pensioner who would have the right to compensation also has the interest exactly the same interest that they have already received, those who have already been compensated and initiated and to whom they relate. Ladies and gentlemen, by this law, we are increasing the number of those pensioners who have the right to compensation, and I will repeat again the figures: 426 thousand 309 citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are already in the compensation process or become members of the Pension Fund. For another 43,000 781 citizens, therefore, we provide this right and institutional framework. Reimbursement of the pensioners is our duty. It is based, once again, on the Constitutional Court Decision of 12 May 1998, and this is another measure of concern for the standard of living of our pensioners and the correction of the injustice done to them from 1993 to 1998. Accordingly, I sincerely hope that you will support this law so that 43,000 781 new pensioners are included in the compensation system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83244	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83245	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Vice-President Polancec spoke exhaustively about the content of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in May 1998, so I will add only one more framework to this to see the conditions under which we make such a law and such a financially difficult but socially and politically justified decision. The problems of pensions in Croatia are much larger than in most of the rest of the world. It's simply because we went through a difficult period of social crisis during the war and after the war, and of course pensions have, unfortunately, been pulled out in some parts and their shorter end. The Croatian system is a social system based on solidarity as introduced in social countries in the late 19th century. But major changes occur in demographic events where we have an increasing number of pensioners because of the length of life. Due to the decrease in birth rate, the number of persons in employment is increasing, so the proportion of pensioners and persons in employment changes and becomes unfavourable for the pensioners. It's not just a Croatian problem. This is the problem all over the world, and within this law, we need to say a few words about it to see how the Croatian government has maintained its direction in solving pension problems. The problem of demographic inversions in the very system of conjugation and payment of pensioners is also evident in the richest countries. It has been calculated that if America, Germany and France as three economic powers from the Budget cover generation difference in order for their debt to be 65% in the next 30 years to reach 200% of the state budget. So two budgets wouldn't be enough to balance that differentiation between generations. As a result, all countries resort to reforms, so in 1999 we adopted a new Law, in which, in addition to the contributions, the second and third pillars of which we talked a lot, and we all know them. And there Croatia has stepped out with many countries in a more just and future-looking social pension system. In addition, however, Croatia has a specific, specific situation. During the Serbian aggression, there is a severe economic and social crisis. What happened to the pensions? The harmonisation of wages pensions at the time was not at the level at which it was in a peaceful time. It could be concluded that only the pensioners paid for the economic and social crisis caused by the war. Of course not. The wages then fell as we remember the average below 200 marks. A million refugees and exiles. A broken economy not only with Serbian aggression but also with a parallel change from socialist to market or capitalist forms of injury. All of this has caused serious consequences for the pension system. One of the consequences is that there is insufficient pension coordination with then-income salaries. At that time, the Constitutional Court therefore makes a decision obliging the Croatian State to repay debt to pensioners for the period 1993 to 1998 because of the unfair harmonisation of pensions and average salaries. For six years, no government has had the strength, courage, or knowledge to solve this problem. And the Constitutional Court's decision stood. The interest was piling up. And there was a pre-election HDZ campaign four years ago. In our programmes, the future government has also outlined the return of debt to the pensioners. And let's remember one of the elements of the guarantee card was to repay that debt. As a result of such planning, the president and prime minister of the government, Dr Ivo Sanader, is here on July 8th for this speaker for the first time, the idea of how to resolve the pensioner's debt. Of course, this was not possible because such a budget does not have a much wealthier state than Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand, the commitment to pensioners is social and human and our coalition partners who are, of course, political partners, but not only politically but also social, the motive of this government, which achieved its promise by the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision and adopted it on 5 August 2004. In such a way as to establish a pension fund that pays regularly and by the end of the year will pay two more wars as provided for by the law. However, in these good intentions there is one legal gap left, which is that the law did not apply to so-called. family and limited pensions. Families related to those holders of pension rights who during that period achieved them but died, and their successors were not covered by this law. The legal gap also applies to limited pensions. So the total as you've heard is about 34 thousand 742 pensioners. And with this present decision, the government fills this legal gap and finds a billion and 400 million kunas from this Fund that will damage both family pensioners and limited, pensioners who use limited, so on. limited pensions determined by specific law. This is another sign of government decision, and I suppose this Parliament, which would probably and would be desirable to unanimously support such a decision in the Croatian state's step as a social state on the one hand. And as a legal state that respects the decisions of its Constitutional Court. After this solution to the problem remains another big problem, and this is exactly the government's view towards the pensioners' optimism that this problem will also be solved, and this is the problem of new pensioners who have since 199 to today been cut off systematically on average for about 600 kuna per pensioner per month, which, of course, is the goal of resolving this government and the last one in this term of the last problems. And that is why the government has made a decision to address the problem, and by July it will contribute a solution to this House and the final problem in this mandate. Finally, we believe that this law should be supported because it is towards the development of Croatia as a legal and social state and is the support of a government that keeps its pre-election promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83246	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83247	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Terza, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the Croatian Retirement Party Club will support this law because it is a quiet suffering that kills us, for example, from a political agreement that we have reached with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27 March 2006 and that only now would this law come into the process and realisation and there is no dilemma for us because we strongly push this bill. But first, I'd like to say a few things, though, to remind ourselves a little bit. The Croatian party of pensioners is indeed a party that is dominant and its votes to enter parliament and has won on this issue and is duty and obligation to bring this problem to an end. And we are really fair to all parties and all governments, because we recognise the contributions of all governments to solving the problem of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision and we speak publicly. So they all contributed. However, the process could not be completed until the problem was individualized, until an individual compensation account was carried out. And I remind you, the Constitutional Court's decision states that the pensioners who received the pensions received from 1993 to 1998 have been damaged and that the state is obliged to compensate them in accordance with economic opportunities. So we have to do it justly, we have to do it in a way that we don't stop all the other structures of society in the necessary development. So I repeat, the collective methods carried out by the Matosha government and the former coalition government could not have ended this problem. So the contributions that were made through two institutes, which is 100 kuna and 6% on pension and an increase in pension due to the different conditions of retirement from 2001 in their specifics, are, therefore, treated as contributions to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. the compensation of pensioners and they are recognised. However, in order for this end to be brought to an end, these operations were to be made, and this was to be carried out individually, to submit a notice on individual accounts of pensioners. Of course, they decided on two variants that were imagined, or arranged by the Retirement Fund Act. In essence, at the moment of the decision that the variant will be decided by the beneficiaries of the compensation, they have actually arranged a debt-religious relationship with the state. So they signed their statement, or agreed to do so in ways to resolve their compensation. And as much as we say we can't predict one of the information we have. Because of the collective approach to this solution, when the final results have been calculated, it is known that more than 3 billion kuna has been overpaid precisely because the calculation has not been individualised in time. Of course, no one will pay that money back, because that's the way it's supposed to be, because at the end of the day, 100 kuna plus 6% that were treated as retirement benefits have become an integral part of the pension base. So they are no longer treated as pension incomes but have become a retirement basis, so a stable part of the pension to which all further harmonisations are applied. It is the same contribution through this resolution and the social status of the pensioners, although I agree with all those who say that what the pensioners receive is little. I agree with everyone. But we must also say that it is also a contribution, the entry of that institute into a retirement foundation that contributes to improving the social situation of pensioners. In a way, he would look back at this bill and notice a detail. In fact, Article 5 of the existing law states that the difference has also been established for those beneficiaries whose pension has been paid on the day of entry into force of this law, on 5 August 2004, as well as those whose pension has been suspended for employment. I must warn from this pay phone here, they may not have known it at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because a lot of work has been done here, there have been a lot of objections, but I must warn them that I have been contacted by several pensioners who were retired from 1993 to 1998 in 2000, who worked for a year and a half to two days and received a new bill. Of course, they received an account which is somewhat higher in terms of pensions, but at least according to the interpretation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, they lost 100 kuna and 6% which did not go into the basics and disputed their right to compensation. So, I don't know if it came to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but I warn that these people have been retired all this time to which the right to compensation relates and that they really have had their pension suspended for employment, so I guess that member of the law doesn't say that at the moment of entry into force of this law, a pension has to be suspended, i.e. that man has to be employed. So in this context, in front of the Croatian pensioner party, I give here one amendment. I ask you to study it with due attention at the Croatian Institute, i.e. at the Ministry of Economy and see if it fits, but I wanted to tell you what the essence of this problem is. If it is necessary to reshape it, reshape it, but I ask you that these maybe 10 people, because I estimate that there are no more, remain deprived and that we do not have to change it any third time, amend and supplement the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Here, so much, with an explanation, that is, so much justification for this amendment. We're still going to look back on the reasons of the law. It is true that this procedure, this bill of law will include 43,000 781 people or if there are a dozen of those that I have spoken of if the Proposer accepts this amendment, then maybe a dozen people, a dozen more. In the following, in the consequences that will arise by passing this law, I would limit myself to the following. Surely this contribution is to preserve the constitutional provisions on the Republic of Croatia as a social state. I must say that the dimensions this law will influence are over 400 thousand pensioners and their families. So contributions, this is a contribution to social security of over 400,000 pensioners and their families, to explain how. In fact, it has now received, therefore receiving compensation is worth about 300 thousand users of compensation. Of course not all of them were compensated, some of the damages were 50 kuna and 500 kuna and 0,48 limes, but so it showed a calculation. We can't say for them that this is their contribution to social security. But at this point, 250 thousand pensioners have received significant amounts of compensation. I also assume that 120,000 pensioners who have opted for variant b) except for one of my presidents of the VIII party. Election units with 136 kuna, but also decided on variant b), I guess the others have more significant amounts and will contribute to the social security of the pensioners and their families over the next six years. And I also think that these new 40,000 that go into this new law, therefore in compensation, will also contribute to their social security. But more than that, but more than that, this law has another dimension, which is the achievement, i.e. respecting the rule of law as the highest values of constitutional order in the Republic of Croatia. So the one the state has damaged, according to the Constitutional Court's decision to be compensated. It's the most important message of this law. This law has a great social dimension, but even more so, this second dimension is respecting the rule of law. Now how much does this law cost? It is projected to cost 1.4 billion kuna from pension funds, however, it is nominal. That would be so if everyone chose variant b). The same procedure as those users of compensation where payment is under way will be made, and they will have the opportunity to declare their choice of model. I personally assume that this time more will take the model b) since the first payment per model b) is already at the end of this year and I am correcting my colleague, Andrija Hebrang, because by the end of the year, three payments of compensation should be paid. Two per model a) and the first war per model b) compensation without these family and highest pensions should be around 2 billion and 100 million by the end of 2007 without family and highest pensions. What, I don't want to bother you colleagues and colleagues, we all know a lot about this problem, we know it's been working out for a long time, and it's worth it because there are new problems in the pension system related to the new pensioners, related to the uncertain situation or the yet unpredictable situation of those who will be users of II. We don't know anything yet. Therefore, I would also conclude that there are a lot of problems ahead of us that we need to solve and a lot of temptations that expect all of this country's political structures. What I would like to ask, and also what was observed in the communication process with those who complained to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I ask you to give our pensioners a little more clarification, not just at a certain point in time in the second-degree procedure to be declared incompetent. It's not right that these people don't get one minimum explanation why their calculation is the way it is. I appeal to you at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because it will address you, to make a little more effort especially because there are a lot less beneficiaries of the compensation now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83248	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorary Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83249	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. This law in its contents has, of course, a just thing and therefore, this proposal bears such a just characteristic of the fact that those pensioners who were at one point denied and thus damaged, regardless of the reasons, which led to it. And when such injustice is corrected, then of course it should be supported. I very much respect these figures here, which means that the promoter had in mind a large number of fates and as the colleagues of Hrelja said and a large number of people who depend on this operation and existentially. In that part, I point out on behalf of the SDSS Club the desire to support this effort to make people feel better. But there's one other thing I want to say here and it's important to us because it seems to have fallen on our shoulders. With this question, therefore, this proposal, with what we did last year's amendment to the law, has not been resolved, the problem in general is not solved. Not everyone is feeling damaged and not putting an end to this matter, and I think it's kind of getting the impression with this proposal that it wants to be ordered to put a point on it. And there's a number of pensioners who aren't focused on this kind of compensation, and they're damaged. They are not focused on the Pension Insurance Fund, they are not now focused at least, if I may say so, on the operational governments and unfortunately are not in focus or on the list of our fellow pensioners, even if it could basically fall into their matter. What's this about? There's one category of people, I can't talk about numbers, but it's a pretty number, it's more than 10 or I could say even 10 thousand pensioners. These are those who, therefore, are always the ones who have acquired the right to retire before 91 and started to receive that pension. So the payoff started before 91. That's all I'm talking about. It is about people who were in the temporarily occupied area and mainly did not charge the Pension Insurance Fund of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, they did not receive pensions from the Fund and did not receive from 91 to 95. I'm talking about a large number that aren't and of course I'm excluding those who have found a way to accept that pension. The suspension of the pension has arisen for understandable reasons with a technical explanation conditions have arisen with inability or for the inability to pay the pension. That's another thing I'm adding, these people aren't personally guilty of. Therefore, if they are not guilty, then the problem cannot be put on their backs. The second item in this is people who have not been paid pensions from the 95th to the next payment when they showed up and said, "Here we are, we want to keep paying our pensions." Some did it in 96, 7 or 98, some in 2000, these are different situations. But I'm certainly talking about those where you have a void, August 95th, until the moment they get a resuming payment. They didn't get a pension at that time, even though 95 stopped the circumstances because of the war we can't pay off. I know one more thing that goes to the soul of the Peace Fund, and until the last change of the Peace Act, the Peace Fund has recognised the payment of such outstanding pensions back three years. Back for three years. Then there was an amendment to Law 99, so that provision was changed, we recognize the right to pay back from 1 year, but nobody told the pensioners that, they didn't get a notice. Resumption didn't go as planned but went by application, you'll get a good pension from the next 1. And people simply didn't know they had the right to pay back, and then when it was three years ago, then the Peace Institute said, "You're too late, your request is too late because you don't have the right to those claims after three years." And the third item that enters this calculation of the debt of this part of the people, this part of the pensioner, that's this difference that other pensioners are recognised by the coordination of pensions. So, a large number of people, I repeat, certainly more than 10,000 are not affected by this compensation, they haven't gotten, they're not guilty, they're not the focus of those who decide. They've even been deceived administratively in this way without being told, you have the right to do so. And now, of course, I can't talk about what kind of law it is in a particular case. People spoke to the Peace Fund asking for it to be resolved, so when they got the negative answer, those who got it were directed to sue. So then in court, they lost the most because of this, you have no right because it's out of date. I also know about the interpretation, you received during the War Retirement, so you can't get another one now. To talk about it all but the problem should be considered, this problem should be considered, the problem should be seen as a real problem, and the problem should, if I can say so, be explored, from the point of view of law, from the point of view of financial opportunities but not worth ignoring the problem. What is not valid, this problem must not be ignored in either the Government or the Peace Fund. What kind of solutions can they be? I can be different. They can be different from the perspective of opportunity, from the point of view of justice, from the view of compromise in agreement, all of this is possible. What's wrong, and I'd like to say what shouldn't be possible is to ignore the problem. You know, that's to say you are, your category willingly. And I know that people because they have difficulty, because that's what their problem hasn't taken over a lot of people, that's how we're supposed to push it. Unfortunately, neither is the Retirement Party who took care of this matter and people are, feel alone, organize themselves as a pensioner's association, they'll probably be looking for something. I was even hired to head up a meeting with Mr. Rukavin. I think we should talk to these people. As it turns out, I don't know, but current intolerance and dissatisfaction in this matter exists. And I repeat that I respect what is proposed by this Law, but I ask that this problem continue because it is people, because it is people who are not guilty because it is about elementary justice, because it is about the obligation of the state to man, not to ignore it. And as much as I support it, I repeat, as much as I support this, that these people who have entered the calculations under this law are being helped so much we insist that I don't consider it a point to this kind of problem. We ask that both this question and these people and this problem that I've raised here be spoken to below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83250	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the amendments and additions to a law that is not large by the number of articles, but in our view they are significant. These changes are, in fact, the correction of the injustice that was done for the second time in July 2006 when here in this House we discussed very strongly the Proposal for a Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. When we had this bill of law to consider a major shift in relation to the situation in question, it was that the government was the same political option, which caused the injustice and the debt for the first time admitted that the debt existed. That debt was admitted to exist in '96. The year, '97. In the years when pensioners' associations pointed to an existing problem, we certainly wouldn't have come into a situation where in tens of billions we count the debt of pensioners, and from that, we need to learn that the truth doesn't need to be done, we don't need to close our eyes in front of the truth. I remember a statement from the minister at the time who claimed there was no debt. If there's anything then it's the pensioners themselves, but the government doesn't happen. Constitutional Court of '98. In 2000, a law was passed, which said in his article to settle the debt incurred in the period of '93. until '98. And then, in part, according to my 18-and-a-half billion kuna data, it's due to pensioners, of course it's not enough. In 2006 we passed a very sound law called Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998 and here from this pay phone we are convinced that this Law is just, although we have pointed out from opposition clubs and the Croatian Peasant Party Club has indicated that this Law is not entirely fair, that this Law excludes certain categories of pensioners, we have fought hard and invested amendments that would allow family pensioners to have the right to compensation for what they are users of pensions that are up to 1.1.'99. years died, actually they were compensated. It's property law. That's their claim. It is an property right that belongs to the inheritance category and their heirs to this claim have the right and we cannot talk here today that it was a legal void. It was not a legal void, it was a lack of political will to pay the compensation that should be paid to those family pensioners, as pensioners suffered the damage. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. in paragraph 2, certain categories of pensioners who do not have the right to compensation shall be excluded. They have no right to compensation. Among other things, he also says pensions set out under the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Individual Farmers. Fellow Members, whether we are adopting amendments and supplementing the laws that we in Croatia support, we will vote for these amendments and additions, but we point to the need and therefore we have made an amendment to delete this category from the exclusion from the right to compensation of farmers whose pensions are the lowest pensions in the Republic of Croatia. We do not know for what reasons this category of pensioners is again discriminated against, I do not know for which reasons, with this billion and 400 million, the necessary funds cannot be raised to give social security and those who are socially insecure today in Croatia. There is obviously no political will, and no political will shows double, on two occasions, the refusal of the Bill on National Pensions to which the law was the sole goal of giving what, such social security is to those who are the most insecure. So is it the villagers' fault that they couldn't be retired until I don't know '83? And '84. A year? So they were class enemies in this system, and they were not given the right, and when they were given the right, now they are no longer class enemies, but they are not equal with all other pensioners. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party proposes an amendment that by eradicating these quoted words, that the category of pensioners be even with all other pensioners who will exercise their right under this Act. It sounds very nice to explain we're paying the pensioners back because the pensioners deserve it. We guarantee their social security, guarantee their material security, we are a socially just state, etc. And a return on debt is a certain satisfaction. The satisfaction of all those who have been since '95, '96. And for years, they heard that no injustice had been done to them. But a little bit better when the pensioners think about it, then they'll actually say, the satisfaction is that, but we're still paying that debt back to ourselves. How? So they return in a way that by changing the formula for harmonising pensions, there has been a redundancy of pensions relative to the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia, which is the fact that it is 31. 12. In 2003, the average pension in the Republic of Croatia was 44.71% of the average salary. And today we could see that in the paper, too, and I've talked about it before. However, this was not recognised, and today we read in the newspaper that today the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is 39% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia, which is important to give up those promises, I also think the elements in the Coalition Agreement when the average pension, according to which the average pension was to weigh 50% of the average unemployment in Croatia. So, on the one hand, we pay back the debt, and on the other hand now there's no debt being created because it's in accordance with the law. But we've passed an unfair law. And we, as MPs, have no right to bring unfair laws and we have no right to act... as though the pensioners were not with us daily, in rooms and in the streets, even if you will in houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Correcting this injustice and repaying the debt to the pensioners, some of them told me before that they would put an end to one problem. However, another problem is opening up. The problem of new pensioners. And what happened with this so-called. The old pensioners over the years and the fact that they've been denied what they've suffered and now they're closing their eyes to the problem of new pensioners. The Croatian Peasant Party club has put the bill in a procedure that needs to correct that injustice against new pensioners, it was given in a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the problem does not exist. Under public pressure, the prime minister said there's a problem, but you know, wait. We've got time. We have time but the pensioners don't have time. Yesterday, on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, we were able to obtain accurate information on how much pensions are less due to this injustice in the reform of the pension system. People who today, in 35 years or 40 years of employment, have a pension of about 250 or 1,000 kuna, do not have time to wait for a year to think about whether there is a problem at all and then when the problem is found to exist, then solve the problem for years. They do not have time to wait, but it is a very expensive colleague, it is very expensive for the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia will eventually have to solve this problem but this problem will be paid much more than paid, which would be paid to approach the problem immediately. I know some will say, so you were in the government from 2000 to 2003, so why didn't you fix that problem? My colleagues, Croatia was not created in 2000 and will not end in 2007. Croatia has been created long before, Croatia has accumulated problems long before. And the difference in pension payments in '99. the years, the ones that retired 1.1.99. She wasn't as drastic as she is now. And that's the problem that needs to be solved, and that's the truth that needs to be looked in the eye and over that truth we can't cross. And if there is no political will here, we will testify tomorrow, the day after we have in this House the bill as it is already called, which should correct that injustice against the new pensioners who have proposed colleagues from the SDP club as well. The bill is rejected, even though there is no longer any reference to the professionality of the law, there is no notice that this law is indeed not for the purpose of politics but is really solving the problem and is not even expensive for the Republic of Croatia. However, it is obvious that there is no political will to solve this problem and then one day someone with a noble and triumphant voice to declare a correction and injustice probably for political purposes, and I just don't know how many of these pensioners will welcome that satisfaction, because I heard that in 2010, there will be no difference. About my colleague, there will certainly be a difference, because today these new pensioners are 360 thousand, each year new pensioners appear. By 2010, I wish them good health and life, and they will very much be different from those who have previously made a pension. Finally, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives will support this proposal, the Croatian Peasant Party's Representatives Club insists on the amendment that we have made in the procedure and which we have explained for the reasons why this amendment is human, which is socially just and not for the country's rally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83252	Thank you. In addition to the general consensus that we wish them a long life and good health, the correction of an incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83253	Your Honor, Mr. President! The claim that pensioners pay their debts isn't just a false assumption. This is also the highlight of hypocrisy, as the current formula of harmonisation has been existed since 1.1.1999 and only 18 months, with the merit and effort of the Croatian party of pensioners, has been improved. So it's nothing new, and you should look at it a little bit when it all started. Secondly, this problem is solved by the efforts of HSU, which means the Croatian party of pensioners concentrated on public and pensioners. I don't mean to say it's not on others but it's dominant on us concentrated pressure. And thirdly, pension reform cannot be amnested from the impact on a low pension because it is also a low-retirement generator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83254	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague's misstatement. We have no right to act unnaturally. Well, it's just that a colleague and her party were acting very unnaturally when they denied police officers, high school regresses professors, regress colleges, and all the things that the collective contract signed. Which cost this government 3 billion kuna. With these 3 billion kunas, many of these problems would be solved but we're going from case to case attack, so where do we succeed, where don't we?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83256	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. It's final. Mr. Stazic is not in the hall, so he loses his right to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83257	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidents or representatives of the committee clubs. I thank you very much for your contribution to today's debate, and I must remind us all once again that the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision came from the Constitutional Court Decision of 12 May 1998. I'll remind us of some facts. Union of pensioners of Croatia, Matica of Croatian pensioners, Matica of Croatian pensioners of the city of Zagreb, Dr. Djemaludin Kalajji Salihovic, Croatian party of pensioners, Union of pensioners of Croatia, Mirjana Gertrud-Gregorec, Apornik Jolanda, Eleonara Nemet submitted a proposal for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on Harmonisation, citing the fundamental, foundations of the dispute of the identical proposal to the Syndikats. Therefore, all of these submitted requests for an assessment of the constitutionality and, on the basis of these requirements, discussed how pensions were coordinated. This law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision is reflected exclusively in the Constitutional Court's decision, and that decision puts aside the provisions of the Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions of February 1997 and clearly demonstrates the non-constitutional nature of the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and therefore opens up a space for the calculation of the compensation, i.e. categories of pensioners entitled to compensation. When we talk about individual farmers, I am fully aware of the level of their pensions. Their pensions were made under other laws and were harmonised under other legal regulations. Not those regulations which are the subject of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the debate between Mr Hrelje, the Croatian Party of Retired People and its representatives in a special working body, a working group appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and which I had the honour of being at the helm, took part and sought a solution with me. We've found those solutions. We've found solutions to how to compensate for 670,000 pensioners. If we have found solutions to this, if these solutions meant that we need to find assets worth 13.8 billion kuna, then I am absolutely convinced that we can find solutions to this problem that you have to say well explained and elaborated. And something a little worse comes out of the amendment you submitted. So it's a completely understandable situation for me. It is about pensioners who were paid for in the period from September 1993 to December 1998. These people are really cut off. We'll sit down one more time and consider your proposal. And you will receive a written statement from us to the vote in this House. And it will go after us to try to be fair to those people who got hired in the meantime and then retired under other laws. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have had the courage and strength to say and admit that the debt to the pensioners for the period 1993 to 1998 exists. We had the strength to make an individual approach to the calculation that showed that a total of 13.8 billion kunas were needed to do so. We confirmed our credibility the moment we proposed and confirmed this House's Pension Fund Act. Especially the moment we made the commitment and paid the first war to the retired. Many of them did not believe that compensation would come at all until the first war of pensioners was paid. So far, two payments of compensation have been paid, and let the pensioners be completely thought. Let it be a message to them. The third war will be paid in the 6th month of this year. The objective of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision is to obtain the conditions for these 43,000 781 pensioners to be elected to the so-called so-called “retirement” The speedy payment may be calculated in the first war of damages until 30.6.2007. Accordingly, the deadlines set by the law are extremely short and I ask you to understand the necessity of passing this Act in a shortened procedure and once again I am ordering the pensioners and these 43,000 all who opt to do so for an accelerated method of payment will have the opportunity and the right to receive the first war of compensation in the 6th month of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83258	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And before the conclusion of the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83259	Mr. President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I thank you for understanding this amendment, but so as not to remain in the air, because, in order not to turn out to be unprofessionally writing that amendment, we were unable to intervene on the basis of the Rules of Procedure possible on Article 2 of the Law, where this could be better arranged, but it is important that we understand what the problem is. So I hope you find a model to solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83260	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. The amendment submitted by the HSU Representatives' Club was withdrawn for no-technical reasons, by the HSS Representatives' Club. State Secretary Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83262	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment with a reason that it is about individual farmers’ pensions which, during a critical period and were not subject to the government's regulation on the problem of harmonisation of pensions. Thus, neither the Constitutional Court's decision applies to that part of the pension. Of course, they are neither the subject of the Constitutional Court decision nor of this novel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83263	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83264	Thank you very much. We are coming into an unusual situation that the right to return is being realised by everyone except those who have retired by doing the job of a farmer. This is a very unusual explanation. The exception is only for this area and, of course, we at the HSS Club are not satisfied with such a situation and we ask that the rights of the pensioners who have achieved it in agriculture be equal to those of the other pensioners in Croatia which this amendment foresees and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83265	Thank you. Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? The result? 19 for, 6 abstentions, 63 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 89 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against the passed Law mentioned. Thank you. - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2004 and 2005 in accordance with Article 38. The island law was submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations and Tourism. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83267	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Government shall submit a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2004 and 2005 on the basis of the provision of Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The island law. Otherwise, the Island Law itself came out and was established in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which defines the sea, seashore, islands and other natural resources as areas of special interest of the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. On the other hand, the Island Act had its economic foundation, if I may say so, in the National Development Programme of the island of 1997, which defined the care of islands at the level of the state, the county, and the municipality and the city, all in order to develop the island in a sustainable and lasting manner, and the survival and return of the population to the Croatian islands. I would also like to say that indeed after the adoption of the National Programme, which was later in 1997, and later on, the Law on Islands, which was adopted in 1999 and a series of sublegal acts that followed and came from the Law on Islands, I would indeed say a number of economic, municipal, infrastructure projects on Croatian islands that mean partly and to a large extent the revitalisation of Croatian islands. In this report that we delivered to the Croatian Parliament, we wanted to show the activities of the Croatian Government, so at the implementation of the Law on Islands in those two years, only the report was drawn up in 4 parts, during which all the ministries, state administrations and the entire public sector were based during 2004 and 2005 with the intention to systematically implement the policy of the development of Croatian islands and based on the Law on islands, but also other laws which are inescapably treated by their provisions and islands. The introduction part of the Report itself includes statistics on Croatian islands as well as a brief overview of the development of the former Island Centre in today's Department of Islands, which is based on the launch, coordination and coordination of peace resulting from the activities of all entities from local, regional self-government units to ministries and public enterprises and state-run administrative organisations. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development through the Department of the Islands is directly responsible for implementing the Law on Islands, and therefore most of the Report includes the Management of the activities of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development in the implementation of the Island Act, although it is worth mentioning, as is evident from the Report that other ministries and public enterprises have made a significant contribution to the overall development of Croatian islands by means of measures which they have partly found in the Island Act during the observed period. The island law as well as the sub-legislative acts resulting from this law, as well as the measures resulting from other laws applied on the islands, were necessary as an effect to the investment of state resources in several areas, especially in a better, better and cheaper transport link between the island and the mainland and the island, building the necessary transport, municipal and social infrastructures to help develop the economy by investing in economic projects, and by creating better conditions for island employers, by helping to create favourable conditions for employment or preservation of jobs in island enterprises. Improving health care, social care, conditions of education, support and subsidies in agriculture, fisheries, tourism and the culture of relief in tax and credit policy towards local self-government units and legal entities on Croatian islands. Over a period of two years, 2 billion and 907 million kuna have been invested in the implementation and implementation of certain activities and projects. Of these 2 billion and 907 million kunas 934 million kunas, the credits of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development through the success programme and 175 million were signed with the island units of local self-government for waste management on Croatian islands, and about one million and 800 thousand kunas of direct investment in infrastructure, and subsidies and support. A billion and 800 million kunas... through direct investment in infrastructure and subsidies and support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transport of the island to the mainland is the basis of the development of each inhabited island and the largest assets are invested in the construction of new ferry ports, and partly in the rehabilitation and upgrade of existing ports. In total during the observed period, in those two years 25 ports which are in traffic connection function and 6 ports that needed renovation or recovery of the harbor. In total, 31 ports were built or reconstructed during that two-year period. After the decision of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development on the reduction of ticket prices for private and freight vehicles for islanders... and the introduction of island vines from 1 April 2005 divided a total of 46 thousand and 540 vinjets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of new high-speed lines and the redistribution of navigation lines and the introduction of multi-line islands increased the total number of miles in 2005 alone by 40,000, which, in addition to other measures, meant an increase in shipowners’ subsidies of around 624 million kuna. It should be further noted that during 2004 and 2005, the Adriatic fleet reconstruction programme continued and 4 new Adriatic ferrys, 2 catamarans and a ship for international lines were sailed according to the islands. According to the island of Rab, the newly built ferry "Rapical navigation" sailed in 2005. The State's grants investments in the construction of these 5 aided ferrys of 10% of the total price are not covered by the financial part of this report. The construction of municipal and social infrastructure is another important element of the development of the island and the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has developed a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands or to call the CEV 4 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2004. The Council of Europe Development Bank adopted the same in November 2004 and a loan agreement for the 386 million kuna project was signed between the Government and the Development Bank and the Council of Europe on 15 December. The project of building municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands is a multi-sector project which aimed at improving the overall quality of life on islands and creating conditions for sustainable development both on small and poorly populated and remote islands and on larger and developed islands. Bad living conditions, i.e. the main problems observed on the islands, are non-existent or inadequately built water supply and disposal, inadequate care for older, inadequate healthcare facilities and an education system not adapted to the specificities of the island. These problems are treated through medium components and amounts. The first component is the municipal infrastructure, which includes the supply of 29 projects on Croatian islands covering more units than one or more local self-government units on the islands. Then 22 wastewater disposal projects with a total amount of EUR 208 million. Then building social care facilities, so 9 projects totalling 19.5 million kuna. Then building 33 health care facilities for homes of health or infirmarys totalling 29 million kuna and 20 projects of schools, sports halls totaling 59 million kuna. So the C4 project itself covers 113 projects. The project itself is conceived in a way that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will be the bearer of the project, but for certain components and their implementation are responsible for the resolution of the ministries and Croatian waters. In the past two years for which the report has been submitted, about half of the total loans provided by the Council of Europe Development Bank have been spent. In addition to these funds, which are secured by the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank directly from the state budget, and through the Ministry of Sea, Tourism and Transport and Development in those two reporting years, further 343 million kuna has been invested, primarily on the construction of 14 school sports facilities and halls, kindergartens, heliodromes, water supply systems, wastewater disposal systems, island electrification, construction of unclassified roads, Polish and forest roads, so all those municipal infrastructure and social facilities. In addition to these funds, Croatian roads have also invested around 200 million kunas in modernising and maintaining state roads on Croatian islands. The third also important component in the development of the island is support and subsidies, especially in road transport and water supply of island households with drinking water. For road transport subsidies, we are talking about the rights of students, students, pensioners and persons over 65 years of age to drive on the island and to the first stop on land for free and about 40 million kuna has been invested in these subsidies. In the part relating to the water supply of island households through auto-cistern and watercistern households that are not connected to the water supply system, it is possible to subsidise up to 150 metres of cubic meters per year by household and in this sense about 18 million kuna is invested. The fourth important component of development is the fiscal strengthening of local self-government units on islands to make the same, and we have today, we have exactly 57, I can implement... by means of individual projects of development of the importance of the development of local self-government units on Croatian islands. [[You don't understand.]] All island units of local self-government opened deposit accounts at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with which around 108 million kunas were withdrawn during 2004 and 2005 for 79 individually signed contracts. The annual income of all island units of local self-government based on paid income tax is estimated at around 55 million kuna. Today's tax rate on income based on the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government has increased by 20 million kuna per year, namely, 73% of the income tax on islands is now transferred directly to units of local self-government instead of 59.6 as long as it was before the amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Support for the economy and for the precise population were achieved through two lines of credit from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development through the project incentives for success. Total allocated funds of 935 million kuna to legal and natural persons testify to major economic activity on islands in two years of time, which, according to the 2006 data, continued on the islands. Other investments by other entities are individually listed and described and have contributed greatly to the overall development of Croatian islands. In addition to these activities, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development carried out other legislative and planning activities in the part of the revitalisation of Croatian islands, so 25 sustainable development programmes for islands or island groups and 13 state programmes that were in line with the Island Act were adopted. In 2005 we also prepared an amendment to the Law on Islands, which amended the first purchase right for small uninhabited or individual inhabited Croatian islands and also no less important, during 2005, the Transport Act was drafted in a line-and-time coastal transport which should also contribute to a better transport connection between the Croatian islands. All together, so to conclude, in the two years this report and includes, on the Croatian islands directly from the state budget through the ministries or through the entire public sector invested nearly 3 billion kunas, namely one revitalisation of Croatian islands and through a resorient administration at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, practically... care for life on Croatian islands. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83268	Thank you very much. Committee on Tourism, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, discussed at its 38th session held on 7 February 2007 the impact report on the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2004 and 2005, which was in accordance with Article 38 of the Croatian Parliament. The island law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 November 2006. The tourism committee considered the report in question pursuant to Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body and on the basis of Article 69 as a home working body in the section relating to development programmes in tourism of particular importance for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In this debate, support is given to activities and to increase total investment in Croatian islands through the realisation of a series of projects of public enterprises and competent ministries in order to establish better living conditions, better quality health care, better integration and construction of adequate municipal infrastructure. In particular, the Committee supported the implementation of a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands, funded by the Council of Europe Development Bank. This is a multi-sectoral project with the main objective of improving the overall quality of life on islands and creating a prerequisite for sustainable development. It is particularly important to create assumptions for the development of tourism. Special satisfaction has been expressed with regard to the completion of the development of the island's state-run sustainable development programme under the State Development Programme. According to the report in question, a total of 2 billion 907 million 209 million 238,68 billion kunas of legal and legal persons were invested in the implementation of certain tasks and obligations set out in the Island Act, and all inhabited Croatian islands were covered by these investments. It also supported the lending of a small family economy in tourism in which the projects in the last 2 years have invested 129 million kuna and has proposed to consider the possibility of releasing or reducing the fiscal obligations of entrepreneurs operating on these islands. Efforts made to create a prerequisite for better quality life on islands and for increasing the population are evident, as is necessary, to take measures that would lead to the release of fiscal obligations to entrepreneurs, in order to result in a better motivation for the population to live and work on islands. The debate noted that a large number of island development operators require better coordination, which should also ensure a coordinated and more even development of Croatian islands. The Committee believes that the long-term success of tourism will depend on the ability of the local, public and private sector to manage the space for tourism purposes, using methods that allow economic gain, but at the same time safeguard natural rarity and values. For this reason, it is recommended that the proposer take action to build a sustainable tourism model on islands with the aim of firstly analysing the acceptable capacity of Croatian islands so that these analyses can establish quantitative guidelines on which future tourism decisions should be based. The debate also noted that existing ports and ports on the islands should not be given in concessions but should be renewed by benefiting islanders. On the basis of the debate held by the Tourism Committee by majority vote, 8 votes for and 1 vote against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament: A report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands for 2004 and 2005 is hereby adopted. Two, comments and proposals from the debate are also addressed to the applicant in order to improve their programming activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83270	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83271	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. It is now a report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2004 and 2005 that the completion of one systematic design, the desire to develop every part of Croatia evenly, and in particular the islands, given their status, geographical location and demographic movements. It is just 10 years from the adoption of the National Development Programme of the Island, which was the beginning of a systematic task resolution that was ahead of all of us and which really needed to be done in a modern and modern way. I'm glad that there are among the authors here today Mr. Shirac, then minister, which is, which is precisely what the problems that life means to the islanders are. There were not many examples in the world that could be copied by those countries that have islands in their composition, but were going after the National Programme to be based on the original Croatian identity by avoiding critical replication of other people's experiences. The main focus was on Croatian tradition, culture and science that survived the difficult years of war and in which the emphasis on Croatianism was evident when any knowledge of the value of its own Croatian heritage was driven away. The goal of the development project is to determine Croatia's place in Europe and the world, to realistically assess its values and possibilities, and to influence the consciousness of every individual who would know the specificities of his country and people, but also the centuries-long intertwination of Croatian culture and science with the world. It is an important prerequisite for its sustainable development, which is the only real way into the future. Of course, the obligation to inform the Croatian Assembly of the effects of law enforcement is one of the really fundamental systemic approaches. The 99th Law on Islands with numerous subsequent changes and additions was passed. It has often been a matter of structuring who and how to lead the island development. So in the previous government, the island development administration also received a regional development, while, behold, the Island Authority is now left alone with one real reconstruction. So it can finally be said, it's an island ministry that cares about exactly the most important things. And again, according to the HYD Institute, Split has a thousand 246 islands and 79 islands, 525 islets, 642 rocks and reefs. Also on data processed by Ivan Ljajic in his island population, the islands record a permanent demographic decline. Finally, it has 124,000 870 residents on data from 1991. How and how to keep people on the island, how and how to work, how and how to develop the island economy has just been a fundamental goal in order to balance the development of a particular territory of the Republic of Croatia with its other areas. And just a further systematic step is to develop state programmes, as well as sustainable development programmes, so everything is sublimed right into a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands which has also received a passage in the Council of Europe Development Bank. These are the basics in which investments of island, traffic, municipal and social infrastructure can be realised, and all to be implemented in the right way by the Island Act. The communal infrastructure in the first row tells us how and how to supply water to all settlements on individual islands and determine the priority in which way it will be dealt with. Also draining, and the purpose of disposal is not only to reduce environmental pollution by regulating waste water releases, but also to protect, the fundamental protection of the environment so that Croatian tourism can continue to develop precisely the most important ingredients of ecologically clean nature, unpolluted island products and the excellent production of wine, and that is precisely black wines. Social care on islands how and how to improve existing infrastructure in homes for older and powerless persons and how to introduce an extra-institutional form of care. Of course, even today we haven't achieved that satisfactory degree, so for example, Brač has several nursing homes, Vis also, and in Split-Dalmatia County, for example, there is not a single nursing home on the island of Hvar, and at the moment there is a waiting list for a nursing home in Split-Dalmatia County of about a thousand and 120 people waiting to go to a nursing home outside of their place of residence. The improvement of health care has also received its one systemic crown in the book of improving health care on the islands, and it celebrates 10 years just in '97. Then Minister Andrija Hebrang with the associates of Dr. Mladen Smoljanović from Split-Dalmatia County and other co-workers have just detected how he can and must approach and provide health care on Croatian islands. I'll just say the data of some who are most important to point out that just then the paved way for improving the quality of health care today records just the completion of the infirmary or home health would say on the island of Vis that is worth more than 10 million kuna, on the island of Hvar in Jelsa worth more than 19 million kuna, on Solta it is just beginning to build because only recently obtained local and construction permits. I believe that this will be the right way to equip these medical facilities with the necessary medical equipment in order to allow for one safety in both children and the oldest residents of these islands. It has not been ignored to improve the educational process on either remote and poorly populated islands, but it seems to me that the biggest and most important problem is how to ensure quality elementary and secondary schooling on more populated islands in order to truly achieve that assumption because whoever finishes high school on islands will certainly and if he goes to study after his studies return to his island. A valuable approach is how to combine domestic funds with funds from foreign banks, which is just the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities. What is also current, and for every commendation is how to solve waste on islands and exactly such a solution will almost be solved all not only legal, but those wild waste dumps because they would be driven off the island and at the Land Management Centre would be dealt with in one of the most economical and best ways. For the purpose of coordinating business and tasks defined in the Law on the Islands of the Islands Administration initiated and participated in the establishment of the Monitoring Committee, the management of island development, the development of coastal and island counties. To this end, 7 commissions have been established that have made their work a more effective solution, as nothing will happen on its own unless there is thorough supervision. A thorough approach is also in the systematic resolution of the establishment of an island council, which is the advisory body of the minister, but which, with its frequent meetings of the island council, which are held on the islands of the contributions and the construction of the social infrastructure necessary to make the island population feel that they are neither forgotten by the state institutions nor by the Croatian Government, nor by the Croatian Parliament. It numbers 30 members from individual municipalities, towns, counties and the Croatian Assembly. What is the biggest problem and number one, if not the islanders can solve for themselves, is precisely improving the transport connection of the island to the mainland, the island to each other and inside the island. It was not possible to believe that the subsidy of public island road transport would indeed be achieved, that nearly 40 million kuna would be spent in this way, and that as well as the shipping lines for islands, for example Krapan and Solt could not be believed to be true. That's exactly the kind of systematic approach and connection that's what happened. However, we cannot interfere with the minds or other approaches, so the establishment of an agency that is precisely all the lines for the islands that connect the mainland with the island and the islands is a duty to conduct competitions and that the headquarters of the agency is decentralised, not all situated in the capital but is situated in one county center, for example Split. All this is approaching the state administration of those to whom it is intended. Also, these effects have been touched by each segment, and the current nautical, I would say ifuria has been limited in a way that first develops and restores the old abandoned ports and ports which can be put into service by small costs of nautical tourism so that in one most effective way, water and electricity can be connected, waste of garbage, but also to protect the very dominant population so that it can continue to anchor its ships as so far, and only give part of the port in a concession in order to in some way and only finance itself for the development of nautical tourism. There is a need to complete the study as soon as possible to limit the number of ships because there are more each year. For example, it cannot be allowed to enter the Croatian Adriatic so many ships that will pollute it, which will reduce its safety in navigation and certainly be a role model for us. And for example, Lake Boden where you can't buy a boat unless you have proven that you have a secure connection and that one of the existing ship owners has alienated that ship somewhere and don't anchor it on Lake Boden. I believe that there will still be incentives for further, faster and more concrete traffic connections, for example night trips that have been introduced since 20 April 2006, so that it is possible to go from the island places not only to the game but also to the theatre show or simply go on a trip to the main centres on the mainland, so that they can come back the same day. I believe that we will not stop at this and that the Croatian government will continue to develop all segments so that life on the islands is possible, so that the islands remain alive and working and that by increasing the total investment in Croatian islands through investments in numerous projects of public enterprises and all ministries, it is a great step in the desire for the island to live better on Croatian islands. Every kuna invested in Croatian islands, the islanders return it in a double way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83272	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At first, I say the SDP club will support this report. But let me, on behalf of the club, and as a representative who lives on the island all the time and who experiences all the benefits and consequences of the Island Law on this report, say a few words. Namely, as initially said, the area of all Croatian islands comprises 3 thousand 259 km square or 5.8% of the total land area of the Republic of Croatia and lives on it is about 15 thousand inhabitants, which is that we play a little with numbers of about 2.5% of the population and according to this table that has been presented here in two years cca. 3 billion or 2 billion and 900 million kuna or a billion and a half a year or something. 1.5% of the state budget. So there's some disproportion in that part, too, so this report shows a lot of good things. However, after I go through this report, I'm going to say something about what doesn't say here. At first, I would like to take a brief look at this table, which shows, therefore, investment on various basiss in Croatian islands and amounts to 2 billion and 900 kuna in two years. However, it is technically incorrectly built because this table lists the means of support, the means of guarantees and the resources of the loan. So these are 3 kunas that don't have the same, they should be found the same common denominator and then it would be mathematically correct. But it may not matter as much as it does, because for the sake of accuracy, I stress that fact. However, this table continues through the text individually explaining certain items in this report, so I would, let me comment on some. In fact, according to us at the club and in my opinion, the best effect so far has been achieved on the basis of guidance on the way, based on the guidance on how and conditions for the use of part of income tax and on the municipalities and cities on islands adopted in 2001 and 2003, which directs the tax on income to municipalities and cities on islands. And to me he achieves, and he is, in fact, a concrete, very concrete measure that gives these island municipalities and cities the best results and by this basis here he is, here mentioned in the report by 2006 he collected cca. Something more than 200 billion kuna, so I apologize 200 million kuna, which is very important for the fiscal potential of island cities and municipalities. However, there is another question. We see that the spending of these funds is significantly smaller or somewhere at 50%, which raises the question of what kind of authorities are, in fact, to express myself on these, in these island environments that don't manage to spend money that keeps coming to my budget. So in that part, I think that the role of the government should be greater, and that the state authorities should in some way be pressured or stimulated by these local administrations to better spend the money that comes to them under this Regulation. Second, the amendments to the laws, i.e. on the basis of Article 26, adopted a regulation on the conditions and criteria and the level and manner of the exercise of the right to grant State aid to small-value island employers to preserve jobs that stimulate entrepreneurs employed on islands to stimulate employment on islands. Unfortunately, here we see very poor results of this measure, and I would suggest that there is little on this and on the promotional part, perhaps even the regulatory part of the work that actually makes more of these entrepreneurs from the island appear on these resources that are available in any case. I, as an islander, would especially commend the measure, which is the introduction of night lines. I am personally a user of this line very often, and I know what it means and I am glad that, based on the many and many measures expressed here in the Assembly, the arguments presented and the discussion, here is the point, and I think there is still room in that section for this, this traffic connection to be improved. However, here on page 18 where the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is mentioned are the funds invested in the islands of the environment, and a total of EUR 9.9 million in two years, which is actually the key or that figure is the key to everything. The islands aren't just nice enough to live on. There's got to be something going on on the islands. And I'm actually very saddened by this number because it, too, is that it is actually investing in encouraging the development of the economy. And, and there's actually the key to everything. If we don't have anything to do on the islands, the islands will be abandoned. Or they will either become nursing homes or become resorts exclusively for some tourists. So the key to everything is, in addition to clear all these other measures that must be seen complexly as a whole, but the key to everything is economy and jobs. Because if that's not the case, if it's not on the island, people will leave, or the elderly population will come to spend their last retirement days on islands, and that certainly doesn't promise any demographic expansion. So here's the next page, the next page or 20. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy, encouraging two-year investment in support of the purchase of fishing vessels. So here's the number. That's 3 million and 899 thousand kuna. That's about the value of a mediocre, mediocre fishing board. So within two years, the Ministry of Agriculture subsidized the purchase of a mediocre fishing vessel. So that's what I've been stressing all along the economy, investing in the economy regardless of the nice effects in transport, in this social and municipal infrastructure. However, the key to island life is investment, encouraging the development of the economy. Keep going. The Ministry of Culture. Here is the figure of, according to various basics, the circus 30 million kuna. However, I would like to highlight here a sad, one fact which particularly grieves me, and that is, here is a very media-exposed statue of the athlete who was found near the island of Losinj and for whom, and for whom our culture minister says he does not know where he would still be located and so on and so on. However, the island of Lošinj, the town of Lošinj, has secured a building that he would reorganize, so he has reorganized as for, to the statue's accommodation museum. Because you're careful why I say that? That statue that's unique, one of eight of them found in the world. It represents no cultural and historical value. It represents economic value. Because if he were stationed where he was found on the island of Losinj, then people would come there all year round. We'd have reason to come to that island and it's actually economic activity in Losinj. And I advocate that exactly, since it exists from the local community so from the city of Losinj will, specifically expressed through the insurance of a quality building that he settles there. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning here, one by one, is a very modest figure of 125 thousand kuna for the development of spatial plans. There's a rabbit in that bush. So spatial plans are basic documents, basic documents that a local environment can bring and, in addition, islands are particularly important that coastal line or public maritime good. And now the state, even though it is, we know that it is the obligation of the local self-government unit. But the state in terms of development, in terms of ensuring a future, needs to have more hearing for the development of spatial plans. And a clear record and determination of the limit of maritime good, because there is no building on the islands without it. In particular, we are disabled on the islands of this Regulation on a protected coastal belt that is on one side, protecting space. On the other hand, however, it blocks complete construction until spatial plans are brought forward. They do not comply with that Regulation. Until we film the maritime well and so on. So I'm sure there's plenty of room to be made. In the Ministry of Justice, in two years 723 thousand kuna, the city of Rab invested so much in the reconstruction of the Rab island’s court building. So that according to some of the proposals made in public, the courts on the islands are abolished. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues, that we take care of this because I do not believe it, I do not believe it would be a good situation if we were to abolish the Municipal Court in Rab, Lošinj, Krk, Hvar, Brac and move it to the mainland. Because that's exactly the tendency of this proposal that I've had the opportunity to see. It's going that way, and I'm asking you to take care of it. On page 23.Here is the Croatian Post Office which has invested two million kunas in two years. And here I am from my experience speaking Croatian post office has also abolished some post office which in the process of rationalising these post offices are being abolished and it is not good. 'Cause look. On the one hand, on the one hand, there are so many of these measures that, trying to improve life on the islands and on the other hand, we have in the process of rationalising administration, state administration, etc. Like what? Surveillance centres are lifted on islands, post offices, defense offices, banks are lifted, banks are abolished, some banks are unfortunately private, here, so social care centers are moving to the mainland. And that we don't talk about what can happen to the courts. And that way, instead of encouraging employment, here's what I've now listed as the island of Rab, let's say 30 jobs have been abolished on this basis. So 30 permanent jobs. You can't have any perspective on the island unless you have something to do. And these are more jobs, especially in the administration, the state administration, in various different bodies, more important, that is, than perhaps elsewhere. And finally allow me, the state must certainly take more account of, or encourage measures to develop the economy in terms of buying out agricultural products, oils, figs, wine, plants, then buying out fish and processing fish. Well, in the end, let me just have one little, one little parallel. When I talk to my elders on the islands, they are all, in a way, nostalgia reminiscing the Austrian-Hungarian which has built almost one sentence, which almost all the port infrastructure has built on the islands, almost all the lighthouses, and we are not saying that at the end of its reign in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, tourism began to develop on our islands, or in coastal places. The Socialist Yugoslavia developed fishing cooperatives, built schools, built fish processing factories, and clearly began to develop tourism in the second half of the 20th century. Well, I would, don't get me wrong, but I think we can get out of all this a little bit of what's worth, what's best and actually implement into measures and this law that life on the islands remains, and it's going to stay beside all these measures, and that's social policy traffic, health care, etc. But mostly jobs. Without that life on the islands is gone. And besides, it's in other places, other parts, not just on islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83274	Thank you. It's the turn of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83275	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We look forward to the fact that over the past two years, 2 billion 907 million 293 thousands and 238 kunas have been invested from the state budget and funds of legal entities. Of these, most of which are from the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of a billion 74 million 420 thousand and 413 kuna. And through support for the same ministry's loan, an additional 129 million 479 thousand 874 kuna, representing a total of 41.41%. Then HABOR 805 million 260 thousand 497 thousand kuna or 20.70%. The rest of the funds invested has been made available through the remaining 19 entities involved in the implementation of the Island Act. This increase is a continuation of the trend established by the past government, especially its Ministry of Public Works and then the Board of Islands, which also handed over the first report on the implementation of the Island Act to this House a few years ago. If we know that in 2000 there were only 100 million kunas for the islands she sees that this is a continuation, a trend that pleases us all together and I think it's going in the right direction. By reading page 9 of this Report, we are aware of the fact that the development of the sustainable development programme of the island and 25 of them is a very complex and complicated job and that it will still be time until it is adopted. By reading the Island Act, it is clear that the same programmes are complete so that an island-based annual programme could be adopted, by which clearly every unit of local self-government on the islands would have a clear insight into all the activities that will take place in their territory each year by all the factors in charge of the implementation of the Island Act. I would especially like to highlight the island council that was made. We have three members from every county by the sea. In order for these members of the island council, Mr. Secretary of State to be assigned once a year to visit every local committee on the islands to introduce them to the work programme to help people, to talk to them, to have full information on the minister and all people working in the island council. I think it's a very important bond that today may not work very well. This is not some criticism in a bad way, but I'm trying to point out some of the shortcomings we're getting from the field, and I personally have knowledge of them. How we stress once again that we respect the reasons why we are late to adopt the Programme of all kinds and publicly support the efforts of all institutions, especially the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development, which result in growing support in the construction of island infrastructure and raising island population standards and the development of the island economy. We must point out, but not by chance, a harmless grudge in this report. It is obvious that the current policy has consciously hidden or unconscious information about investing in each individual local self-government, meaning the municipality or city. We've got a report on the islands in the kit. I think we need to know, here in this House and beyond, which cities, which the municipalities have not established enough cooperation with the island council and ministries and/or express concern for the islands and island population. I think it's a very important grudge to this report I'm warning you about. It will be seen immediately that some were in greater mercy and some were in less. For example. Some municipalities by Korčula, and probably Rab did not go badly, we are aware that it can always be accepted that some municipalities and the city can get even more resources if it is an important project of interest for the island and for the county, so that can be further explained. We Parliamentarians and citizens have the right to know where this kind of money is spent in terms of projects with a specific name, not in general activities for a concrete island. I think that the addition to this report would at least be of interest to those who are interested and we think that the best way to report to this House about the impact is to support them all and to support even greater and more intensive procedures in the development of the island because it is an area that returns to the state and local and regional self-government and through various taxes, especially VAT, real estate taxes and income. We also look forward to the fact that it started with support from employers and that the subsidies in road and maritime transport are increasingly being introduced and we hope that the government will do everything possible to make further cheaper transport by ferry for other citizens and only cheaper transport by ferry and thus capital to islands. I must point out, as far as fishing ports, fish and shell markets are concerned, the coast guard is either not enough or not shown in this report. I must also point out that many delegations love to visit islands in the summer, and in winter, they have no sign of them. I'd like to try to propose to you here tonight one let's call it a pilot project that islands that are closer to the mainland to try without ferrys, without some great means allowing these people to have a quick and more frequent connection with the islands, to land. Why? We have islands in my vicinity where I live Prvic and Vrgadu where I think with smaller ships, smaller capacities, and faster would allow these people not only to live on the island but also to return many young people who want to live on the island. You know there are a lot of islanders who are like tenants because of jobs or children who are educated in high schools in colleges living as tenants, and they have beautiful houses on islands. I don't think the islands deserve it, and neither do the people who live on it. And at the end of what my colleague said in front of me, I think that despite this huge shift that we certainly support and welcome, the state still doesn't work nearly as much as it should for the islands if we know that from the circus of 2 and a half to 3% of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives on islands and returns only 1 and a half percent from the budget, the state budget. ... Okay, me, that's my opinion, and I think I'm absolutely right, and you say in your argument differently. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This report is supported and we want to see more and more resources and money allocated for the islands each year, that there are youth and jobs and lives on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83276	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83277	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in these late hours discussing a subject which, of course, is never too soon or too late for it. She'll be waiting behind us. In what state we'll see. One, I've read just one article from a respected junior-generation architecture engineer wrote that space is our greatest treasure, and that's probably the most accurate finding, but it's not a very big treasure if there's no people on it, you know. Because that treasure actually came here and was found in Croatian possessions, because there were people who kind of entrenched it and created it. Therefore, the fundamental battle, which of course dominates and in this report, wants to compete simply in 2004 and 2005, with the fact that the ultimate goal of the islands is to have people living, working and remaining as children born as a result of the Fund. Unfortunately, we can't say that we can be satisfied with that, perhaps not by the fact, but by the fact. Of course, it can't change in a short time. of a large exodus that was somewhere in the '50s the largest population I think was '21. The years on the islands, then selectively smaller and medium islands almost disappear from the census that there are populations on them and the 50th of this great exodus, that image of that relationship is slowly improved, but of course not with that dynamic that we would all like together. The crucial fact in this is the survival, workplace, quality of life and, of course, imposed or achieved levels of living standards on land. In fact, at a time when there was a large population on the islands, relations were clearly different both in terms of communication and connection, education and all that was expensive so that it was difficult to compare those two times. What we can compare is the fact that according to all projections next decade will belong to the Mediterranean, the sea and the mainland. So one huge population is going from the continental part to the sea. This is what it feels like at this point if you watch what those capital shares of real estate on the Adriatic Sea look like, on the islands. They have one growing character. So there's an expansion ahead of us that we can't stop. So we can only prepare ourselves to return to what is our greatest treasure, to try to protect it as best as possible and prepare for what is definitely in one, in every free competition each expects, and that is the game in which the rules are based on market principles. They are sometimes unacceptable to us because they are sometimes harsh, because we are not equal competitors, but if we prepare ourselves then we can deal evenly in a close one, I will not even tell the far future, but the near future in which we are expected in some way challenges, the challenges that are definitely this space that is most valuable to bring under great trial. So, it's good, two are good facts. Good is the fact that the island infrastructure creates the motives and assumptions of economic residence in those areas. I have, regardless of the criticism, been and remain with the fact that despite these good measures, incentives that produce results, investments in infrastructure, investments in family economies that are visible every day, they cannot be denied. The fact that certain traditional agricultural cultures have reached their valuable positions, that they have become brands of which they can live. Of wine through olive oil and other our agricultural products that a bit impose their place. However, I fear that all of this will not be enough to restore that level of employment that is necessary in such a wide environment, and we are talking about a space that makes up 1/3 of Croatia. 1/3 of Croatia is the space we are talking about, which is reported without an even stronger and more dynamic one, I will not show any interference, but the participation of the central state in this. I know that it is unpopular to say that one segment of Croatian society will reward or release certain fiscal obligations, that you will part of the space for the protection of your own, national interests, and not that you would create the possibility of someone outside to come to that space and, as you would say, be rich. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To motivate the local population to stay here and try to create certain production capacities, service capacities depending on what we have designed in the programme for each area. I don't think that without the State's interference, the level of employment, creation and creation of new jobs cannot be restored. Well, in the end, neither does the population process without a stronger incentive for the state. The state is encouraging now to a significant extent, but fiscal policy should in a certain way, not disrupting some... who rule in the European Union, try to dominate that seal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it is not so unknown that the countries of the European Union also use various prelongatives when they want certain properties, the island particularly protects them, giving them special fiscal characteristics, but also fostering certain disciplines of the activities that take place there. So it's nothing lonely. What is very important to me in this report is that we should seek as much as possible that precisely the spatial plans that have been adopted at this time are well into most units of local self-government, however, that island space that belongs to these places and settlements is very often not covered by this. And that space is actually in its character perhaps the best quality. And the spatial plans of the lower and higher order should be defined by precisely that interspace that eventually remained lost somewhere. It is located in county plans but they are not enough for their valorisation and do not prevent in a quality way in terms of banning the use of that space. Therefore, I think that additional resources should be provided, if possible, in the coming years, with more quality spatial regulation of that space on one side. And on the other hand, that this very study that was commissioned by the Ministry of Nautical Tourism should finally position it to see what nautical tourism is, how many we can receive ships, what ships, which are conditions and in a strategy to define the Adriatic area exactly as a restricted space because it is. And what restrictions in this regard should be taken into account when it comes to new connections, new ports, new marinas. I don't think it's a forbidden topic, I think there's only room for reasonable action. But before that we must have one document that will be strategic, which will be acceptable to all of us that based on this document we can make legitimate decisions where, which and how. Of course, this strategy should have a more lasting character than it had a variety of strategies and projections that have been dragged here since the '90s. Each minister had one of his favorite categories when it came to nautical tourism or the development of tourism on islands and coastal areas. I don't think that's good, I think we should really get to one, one serious material. This material, which was made under the patronage of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, I think, from Split, has gathered a sufficient number of respectable experts. The public debate on him I don't know if it was, but I think it needs to be done, and that's exactly how he said it in the 3rd part of the Adriatic. That everyone hears, that everyone sees, that everyone notices and I think that then one serious material can be found that will serve as a starting point so that in the future we don't fight what we're fighting today, which is that we don't know where we're going and that we don't know in which way and how to develop certain segments in that space that is our greatest treasure. Because I'm saying, that's our greatest treasure, if we don't fertilize it then it won't be the greatest treasure because these values, these resources are non-renewable. They can either be saved by smart use, but they're unrenewable once they're spent. There, in that sense, is also my discussion that might be longer if it were a more appropriate time, but I also appreciate the fact that football is in some way approaching and that there is obviously not enough of us to develop a big discussion. I will thus conclude with this, supporting this report and expecting the 2006 report to be sent as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83278	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83279	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There are few of us, but we are discussing a very important topic and so let me make one of my brief contributions to this debate. Islands are a special value of the Republic of Croatia. almost the past century, and especially during the period of Yugoslavia, they have not been invested in them, and development opportunities have even been hampered. In 1996, the government of the Republic of Croatia determined on the basis of expert analyses that the island's economy is significantly lagging behind in terms of other parts of the Republic of Croatia that a deterioration of the demographic situation has continued in the last decade. I think you will all agree with me that the modern development of the Republic of Croatia understands and a complete turn towards the development of the island because islands for the development of the Republic of Croatia have always had significant comparative advantages. Therefore, a national programme has been developed, and on the principles of this National Programme it was adopted in 1999. The island law that specifically regulates the development of the island. For the implementation of the Law, the Ministry of the Islands, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development has been tasked by the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Transport, Transport and Development and, in addition to it and, of course, the management of islands which has focused primarily on the realization of investments in island, transport, municipal and social infrastructure and is a financial monitoring of the projects of units of local self-government in the field of improving health, education, culture, tourist activities of the island and their economic prosperity. In addition to the Ministry of the Sea, all the ministries, all the public sector and of course the coastal and island counties, cities and municipalities on the islands are responsible for the development of the island. With an insight into the analytical review of investments provided by the Croatian Ministry in the development of Croatian islands during 2004 and 2005, two billion and 907 million kunas of budget funds and legal persons were invested. And actually the report is on these activities that have been carried out over these two years and based. Of the total funds invested, the largest part of the funds was invested in investment projects, island infrastructures such as road construction, port, port, water supply system, disposal systems, waste disposal recovery and the construction of helipads and airports. In order to ensure more significant resources, the government has adopted a multi-sector project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands, which was also accepted by the European Bank for Reconstruction, a development aimed at improving the quality of life on islands and creating a prerequisite for sustainable development through the construction of these and, this entire set of infrastructure facilities and social infrastructures. This project provides for investment investment from 769 million kuna in the period 2004 to 2007 and resources are provided at 50%:50% in principle. 50% is the European Bank's loan and the other 50% provide units of local self-government and of course state through, through resources available to it. I must point out that the Board of Islands has supported, along with the above, certain projects led by the restoring ministries under their regular programmes. These are projects in the fields of education, culture, health, social care, compensation, promotion, electronic communications, the economy, agriculture and fisheries, and I think there are significant results. I do not want to deny that there are still tasks in this area to be dealt with. But these investments are also aimed at the development of the economy. To this end, for the purpose of coordinating business and overseeing island development, 7 commissions were established in coastal, island counties. The commissions made a positive assessment. 137 projects of economic recovery of the island and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved loans based on these assessments. It has already been pointed out here, I will only briefly touch that in order to reduce life-threatening conditions on our islands and improve the living standards of the population, subsidisation in the transport sphere has been carried out, in connection with the island's shipping lines. In securing shipping lines for islands that otherwise did not have what, this ship's connection like Krapanj-Solta. To subsidize drinking water. That municipalities and cities are legally subject to a portion of income tax. That state aid was granted to small-value island employers for the preservation of jobs. That the construction of helidrom on 13 islands and in Dubrovnik for elafites was continued and that the subsidisation was maintenance of the airport line for the island... And Losinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I particularly look forward to and, of course, I would like to point out, and I would also like to complete my presentation with a certain conclusion, that the Ministry has completed the development of 26 sustainable island development programmes and 11 of the State Development Programmes of the Island. That these programmes will now create a programme, an annual development programme for our islands and, of course, assess the possibility of the State budget and institutions as much as they can provide for the development of the island which absolutely needs to be done because it is the right approach and it is the only way to invest in the development of that space. And the last thing I want to point out is that a study is being done, i.e. that a study of the development of island nautical tourism is being launched, based on which everything will continue to be planned. Finally, the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2004 and 2005 The government of the Republic of Croatia through investment by public companies has made a major step towards enabling Croatian islanders to live better, better quality health care, social care, education, adequate municipal infrastructure and better transport connections, continuous economic development based on island resources and seas that do not go to the harm of generations. I would, I will support Mr. Vice President's adoption of this report because I think it's very high-quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83280	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Almost all my colleagues are here tonight. In front of us is the Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands, an analytical review of investments in Croatian islands for 2004 and 2005. It is never on any occasion to renegotiate the importance and wealth of our Adriatic islands, the Adriatic Sea, which is here according to the Convention on the Law of the Sea of the United Nations belongs to so-called "the United Nations". Archipelasic seas. And of course, the islands are Croatian natural wealth, as defined in the law, that real estate is on islands of particular national, historical, economic and ecological importance of interest for the Republic of Croatia. A man objectively observes and let me say from the continental position every time and always discovers something fascinating on these islands that only strengthens him in his belief of wealth and meaning of the same. Just one little example. And how to stay fascinated by the knowledge that, say, a coastal island had a thermal source. And to explain or explain, it's about the island of Vis, the town of Vis and the area of Stara Isa. My experts say the island of Vis is another geological structure compared to other Adriatic islands. And that source was alive until after '45. A year. Then there were some talents from that JNA there they poured out I don't know how many concretes and that source is gone. I know from talking to people there that there are desires, so that's how they intend to try resuscitating that source. Mr. Secretary of State, here's a suggestion for thinking. And not to use too much time because what I was going to say next is more or less said. I'll cut the maximum here. It's just final. Therefore, it can only be confirmed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is guided by the declared principle that the development of the island of measures for the development of the Republic of Croatia has made a major step in the sustainable development of Croatian islands, resulting in the suspension of the depopulation, better demographic image, space protection, economic growth based on rich resources, which are islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83282	The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. In accordance with the Law on Islands, which has, on several occasions, experienced its amendments and additions, but thank God always for the better Government of the Republic of Croatia has given this Parliament a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act during 2004 and 2005. I would like to immediately at the beginning, Mr. Secretary of State, to commend everything your ministry and all other ministries that have actively engaged in the preservation and development of this highly sensitive territory of Croatia. Thank you for what you've done over these two years, what you're doing now and what you're planning to do. Thus far, the islands have always been talked about only nicely, whether they are poets, whether they are writers, but they did not take good care of the islands or the islands. That this is how we must always rely on the population and on the demographic image of our part of Croatia. The islands have always been and belonged to a national homogeneous area and according to the '91 list. Almost 92.4% of the islanders declared themselves to the Croats. However, they are our Croatian islands that, although they would not be expected near the mainland, the importance of the Adriatic Sea. Thus, they were always less populated than other islands and island groups in the Mediterranean Sea. We could say that almost 50 years ago, the eviction started, I'd say almost a proverbial eviction. And here I have a table in front of me, and if we compare those 50 last years, we take 1948 when the population on the islands counted 151 thousand 835 to '91. It was 110 thousand 953 years ago. It means more than 41 thousand people. It's not a number to ignore, it's a figure that says a lot in itself. If I did, since I come from Split-Dalmatia County, I would refer only to the area of Dalmatian islands. And if we look at birth, mortality and natural growth then it is important to note that we cannot talk about growth, for almost decades we can't talk about growth, we can't talk about continuing natural decline. And here's the latest on this data I've had since '82. In the last century to '91, during the period of 10 years that natural decline was 2 thousand 312 inhabitants. Of course it was reflected in both the old and the very picture of the population on this part, on the islands. I'll just say comment on the Dalmatian islands. Villages without anyone anywhere, especially those in the interior of the island are almost everyday, it's a picture that dominates. And no wonder when we see that in the Dalmatian islands of up to 14 years, it's only 17.3% of the population. The 15 to 59 years are 51.5%, but those over 60 and over 32%. And if this continues, it says that almost 1/4 of the island's settlements will be extinct soon. Of course this is consistent and economic means what these people live down from, because the island economy has always relied on the natural environment, the island economy is generally very simple and its structure is compared to the one on land has always been poor. It is poor and extremely poor today because agriculture is abandoned. Tourism prevails which, behind it, tourism beyond agriculture, some trade, shipbuilding, we can say industry in the tracks and what our islanders have been dealing with, and that's stone industry. Then the viticulture and the processing of fish are still somewhat preserved. It turns out that the cost of living on islands that are closer and accessible to the mainland has always been almost 10% more expensive cost of life than on those islands that are even up to 30% more expensive. If this is why we look at the socio-economic structure of the family economy, I will just look back at the Split-Dalmatia County. Agriculture deals with 9.5%, not farm 71.3%, mixed 17.6% and without any income is 1.5% resident. And if I were to say such a dreary picture, I would say a very worrying picture, the government recognized, and in July 2004, it created a project to build municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands. This project was said by a colleague before me who spoke, a multi-sectoral project aimed at improving the overall quality of life on islands and creating conditions for sustainable life. And that's why this project is imagined and it's going through four components. Through the infrastructure component, the social care component, the health improvement component or improvement of healthcare and the improvement of the educational process on all these islands. I'd say that's what's essential without which you can't imagine, you can't imagine a life worthy of a man. And it is these funds that this project is relying on, and are not negligible, the programme through the Council of Europe Development Bank, which is almost over 52m euros, and to add to it the financial resources that are coming through our bank and through the Croatian Bank's reconstruction and development programmes, and in addition, the significant resources of all our coastal counties that they have in the description of their business concerns about their islands. Of course, all of this and this kind of funding resulted in one big swing on the islands. I will only look back at what is closer to me and that is, above all, the programmes carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia on islands where many funds have been spent for the construction, rehabilitation and equipment of island hospitals. No wonder when we see that the island of Vis is actually now receiving an ambulance which, alone, I visited during the Homeland War and saw how inefficient it is right in the town of Vis, and then I participated with a group of European experts so that the town of Vis and the island of Vis should be taken care of and resolved. And I have to say that this program that you've predicted meets these needs, and hopefully finally, when it's finished, that really, the island of Vis and all those who, during the summer and hopefully, will visit and have everything they need throughout the year, don't let God in case they need it and their health has been violated. Hvar is also being built and is almost at the end of the hospital and it is in Jelsa, to be the main health station that will then take care of everything from Stari Grad down to Sučurje, and this is the gravity of almost 70% of the island of Hvar and over the summer it says that there are up to 50,000 people on the island of Hvar, so no wonder that in this clinic are also all the contents of primary health care, specialist surgery and also the Public Health Office. The Solta ambulatory means everything that is necessary to this particular population that we see in statistics, that is more than 32%. Social care programmes are also homes to take care of old and powerless. However, according to the reforms and reorganization of the social care system, it is noteworthy that on the islands it is going with alternative forms of care for the old and powerless, which is him in the house, it is a patronage, it is the living room and that is what our islanders need and what can meet their needs. Time's up? The environmental concern is of course a big concern and all the compliments of the minister who's working on it. But I will tell you, we have recently been participating in Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of Mediterranean countries, and it is no wonder that 24 countries and congregations have recognised us as the Mediterranean country, as a country so developed and given us a seat in the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the Presidency of the Committee on the Conservation of the Environment and Social Policy. And I have to tell you that the Mediterranean Assembly has just put it as a priority to preserve the Mediterranean environment and to say that I am taking adequate social policy because they don't have all these islands having problems like we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83284	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Given the time I'm about to concentrate on just a few, two problems per se, which are crucial to me, and here in this report has not been processed. Namely, if we take the surface area of the Croatian islands of 5.8% of the total area of Croatia, the number of inhabitants is about 125 thousand, and we put it in line with the land area and the number of inhabitants and conditions of poor guidance in Croatia. 90,000 people are missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fundamental objective of all the laws should be to keep the existing population, and how do I speak on condition that I return to the islands? And then we will return them if we create assumptions about the richness of life on these islands, and in order to create these conditions, we must primarily ensure new jobs and development and good transport connections, especially that I mean the boat connection and the island to each other and the island with the mainland. If there is new employment there will be culture, there will be sports, there will be health care, there will be social and all that our residents need. For a while, we said that the islands were our destroyers, but no crew. People weren't there. Some Vis, Lastovo, Premuda, Susak, Brijuni were stationed military forces, no tourism, no population. Today we say they're our pearls. Yes, the pearls for tourists, the purposearies, the passersby, but they must be pearls for those people who live on the islands there. And I am pleased that all governments and starting with the one in front of 2000 that passed the Island Law in 99 recognized the necessity of special state care for these islands. Also, the coalition government headed by Ivica Racan, who has changed the law twice, has improved it by the former Ministry of Finance, which has defined exactly how part of the income tax is paid and thus helped solve the accumulated problems, and this government is also not denying this report, as counterpart Zdenko Antešić will support the SDP club, I will support it and I do not want to politicise it. However, it can be better than it can be, as this report shows that some 3 billion kuna has been invested in the two years for which the report is submitted. To a significant extent, the European Bank for Development also participates in these funds, thereby supporting the revitalisation of life on Croatian islands. And that's why I don't want to go further in this general section either positively or negatively elaborate, it's said in the report, but I want to point to two problems. The first is the Regulation on the protected coastal belt. Bringing what was certainly worth saying hello to, and it is welcome because it is a branch of some insatiable types to me, individuals who thought in an uncontrollable way to put their paws on my face, to forgive those valuable resources, and well that this regulation has been passed. However, it is in some way becoming a slow stop and further development of the island because it is a matter of harmonising spatial plans, and there would be my appeal for this report, but it would be my appeal, and you can hear it from people living on those islands, that this regulation slowly if it were not on the side of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction of the Republic of Croatia would take some special measures to ensure that, regardless of its good intentions, it could become the brakes of the further development of the island. The second segment is the segment of maritime transport, i.e. the link between the island and the mainland, which the Secretary of State has spoken of, and we all point out when it would now go to page 12 of this report, and read what it says under the maritime traffic management, everything in the superlatives on transport, the necessity of establishing traffic on improvement, increasing the number of lines between islands and the islands and the mainland, and then I want to point me here to a problem which, despite promises that it will not be created, is a shipping line connecting the Kvarner Islands, primarily Mali Losinj and then Silba with Zadar and Pula. It's a 35-year line. The line was maintained by the almost legendary Marina Lošinj boat and in 2006 after 35 years it was the first year without that line. We called this line our blue highway, from Pula, or Istria as a tourist area, tourists traveled to the islands and further to Dalmatia. From the island and from Ravni kotar people placed their products in the Istrian area as a tourist area. There were constant connections in place. It was known about that ship. It's been functioning for 35 years. I only took data for Pula from 2000 to 2005 which were not at the frequency I have to say in those collages that were previously. However, only at Pula port, I did not take data for Mali Losinj, Silba, Zadar, on average there were between 9.5 and 10 thousand passengers and 1400 of all types of vehicles. I know that it was introduced after the termination of that line of some surrogate that goes from Zadar to the island below Premuda and I don't know which, Silbe, Oliba, to Mali Losinj, however... She can't replace that line that was stalking her and touching her, connecting those islands to Pula. [[You don't understand.]] In a meeting of the Government held in Poreč on November 7th, which is of course a joy to me, it is specifically responsible that, that this line will be suspended because the Marina Lošinj boat has retired and that this line will continue to be maintained by the vessels of Jadrolinija. However, none, since there is no decision on the establishment of lines along coastal and inter-island transport. It was necessary, and if we are going to improve the conditions of people on islands, then one line is less important in a negative sense, not to say, since I come from Istria, I must say, that Istria has no railway connection with the rest of Croatia without crossing over another country. We have a very bad road connection through that Ucka tunnel over there, Ipsilon is what it is, and we're left now and without this connection Istria with, and we can't accept it, and I'm not going to politicize or owe it any further and I'm asking a concrete question if it's possible to answer, what's going to happen to that line. 346 million were allocated in the budget for subsidisation. Many lines in Croatia are not profitable but because of the development of the island we have to keep them. This, as far as I know from the latest indicators, carried a subsidy of 2 million kuna, I do not believe that the Croatian state cannot meet all these legitimate requirements, to find these slightly more than 2 million kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83286	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Marin Jurjevic. He's not in the hall. The word has an esteemed representative of the Arthrial Shima. He's not in the hall. The word has an esteemed representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83287	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State Bacic and his associate. Here are your dear colleagues and colleagues as persistent as you are that we have stayed until the end and are taking part in this debate on the impact report on the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2004 and 2005. The topic is of course very interesting and I will shorten my debate as much as possible, precisely because colleagues in previous discussions have said a lot of things that I agree with and what I think is very useful. And Mr. Secretary of State will certainly be many of these remarks for, in their programmes and activities likely apply. Of course, I'm taking this opportunity to really praise the report, just the report as a document and Mr. Secretary of State Bačić. I mean, we always get very good quality, very neat, well-prepared documents from his resor. And so this document is extremely high-quality with a lot of data, a lot of numbers, a lot of tables, and I think we can all read from it what the government has done in these two years to improve the life and revitalization of our islands. And of course she's done a lot and there's all the numbers, the numbers speak. However, I will look back on only one specificity and it is a group of islands in the Sibenik Aquarium. Surely our coast as such is extremely divorced and it is one of the great potentials of the Croatian state because with the development of tourism, I think Croatia as a destination has been increasingly recognised around the world lately. And this slogan used by our tourist workers, which is "let's keep the Mediterranean the way it used to be". I think that's what our islands can do best right now. Therefore, just investing in islands when we speak is not just for the reason that we want to equalise the quality of life of our islanders with other Croatian citizens. What it is unconditionally necessary, but I think it is investment in islands and infrastructure on islands that it is investing in the significant potential of the Republic of Croatia that will bring great benefits not only to islands, coastal counties but to the entire Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly where I'm going to say some specifics about a group of Sibenik islands. The Sibenik area, the Sibenik Aquatorium is exactly the most divorced area in the entire Adriatic. We have a group... And of course we have this one that counts countless large and larger, smaller islands that are of course not inhabited except in Kornati lives somewhere around 8 to 10 inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have close proximity, and that is the specificity of this group of islands, islands that are not small but are not large. It is Krapanj, it is Zlarin, Prvic, Kapre, Žirje and of course the island Murter which has one special status, i.e. the advantage of what is constantly connected to the mainland. I mean, he has great advantages at the end of the day and of these very encouraging measures that come from this program to encourage and develop our islands. But for example, Kapre, Žirje, Krapanj and Prvic, these are islands that used to count for you from 2 to 5 thousand inhabitants. Today, the islands live on average of 200 to 350 inhabitants. It's a terrible downturn in the population. The depopulation on these islands is extremely large, and these islands also had their own significant tradition with which we as a country as a whole were proud. Krapanj was known for his spongery, Zlarin was a famous center, they pulled corals, they worked corals. Of course, on these islands such as Zlarin and like Prvic there is a significant cultural heritage in the form of architecture. For example, one Zlarin looks to you in the same quality as the old town itself, as well as Hvar, the City of Hvar. For example, in the first place of Shepurine, it is an example of a quality and an ambience, typical Mediterranean preserved architecture. But in order to get my life back on those islands and to improve the quality of life for these people now living on these islands, I think it takes more, that it takes much greater incentives and much more resources, but I primarily think about building infrastructure. Because building a water network and building an electricity network, which is basic preconditions, and draining that any economy could develop, especially tourism. These islands have an extremely, extremely high potential right in the development of tourism. But I don't know why, but I think those islands are so far in relation to the other group of islands, maybe because of the fact that the threads are big islands, and yet they're not very far away, that they're essentially about the investments themselves, I mean in the lag compared to the other group of islands. And that should be made clear, loudly said. I also noted in the debate on "Jadrolinia" that he pointed out that moment because "Jadrolinia" is said to have an average age of 26, 26 and a half years, while the age of ships connecting islands to the Sibenik Aquarium is 55 years. So, I expect, Mr. Secretary of State, from you as a man who comes from the skaya, who comes from the island and in all of your work and in all your reports you see this sensitivity of a man who understands what life on the island means and what life on the island means and what it means to be separated. Otherwise, of course, to support all these projects, all these programs that are listed in your report. Now, I thank and hope that this group of islands in the Sibenik aquarium will also experience more significant infrastructure investments that will allow not only the retention of this few inhabitants. Unfortunately, it is mostly an old population, which will allow people to return to the island and start an economy there. At first, I think of the development of tourism for which there are extremely, extremely large opportunities. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83288	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Luka Roic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I thank my colleague Topic for this presentation, and he made it possible for me to shorten my presentation a little bit, and I will proceed directly to where he ended up because I think that's something we need to talk about. Namely, of all the laws that the Croatian Parliament has passed over the past 10 years, I always like the most prominent two laws that have made significant progress in the areas in which they relate, which is the Law on the Islands and the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Areas. It's for all praise. We have heard that the population in the last hundred years and in the Gorski Kotar and in the islands has been practically halved, and therefore our attempt to stop the eviction, our attempt to bring that population back to the islands is certainly commendable. And we're aware of the fact that just before I don't know it for 6, 7 years, it's been out of the state budget all over a hundred million kunas for the islands, and today it's 10 to 15 times the amount that's really worth pointing out. I am sorry that this debate is being held at this time of night, and not during the day because I think our islanders, our mountainers deserve to be spoken of loudly and clearly in their protection to see how much we have done both this government and the previous government because that is exactly the period in which this great shift has been made and it is certainly good. But can you do even better, can you do more? We certainly have to agree to make an even greater effort there. I'm sure you can. I will list with what Mr. Topic has cited and a few more examples where we need to do additional efforts yet. On page 16, about the tourism community system and the selective form of tourism, I think there is a need to consider a number of additional activities. My colleagues and colleagues, especially in the field of cultural tourism, health tourism, as well as other special forms of tourism. Here in this material is practically the most dedicated attention to nautical tourism. That's incorrect. I think we can highlight some other examples where we haven't done enough. Here on one island there are more plant species than in the entire state of Austria. Why don't we point that out? Why is it that when you ride on that island you have no record anywhere, no marking, no museum, no salon, no gallery where you can get in, see and read about this vast wealth of the island? It's the island of Krk. The island has more plant species than any island in the Mediterranean, even the great Sicily and Sardinia have significantly, significantly less plant species. It's worth pointing out. See how one Petric, one Barunic, greats of Croatian history went. They do not have a virtual centimeter of square exhibition space on the islands where they were born to see what they have given to European culture. Do we know on which island the only copy, the original copy of the Senjski thought, is kept? The only copy in Croatia. Nobody knows that, nobody points it out, instead of working on it. In one small museum in Vrbnik space, the area may be 30 square meters, about 5 times 6 meters is stored 60% of all books ever printed with a verb. So our basic cultural heritage that we should be proud of. It's stored in an inadequate space where neither temperature, moisture, and fungi are regulated, and that heritage collapses at an enormous rate. Nobody's worried about it, nobody's investing, and it doesn't take a lot of money. It takes a little will, a little knowledge, a little desire and a little effort. The essential oils, sage, sage, basil, lavender, the market on this planet for essential oils is inexhaustible. There is a great shortage instead of Minister Primorac calling for tenders that just one part of scientific research is being conducted and explored by these species to see if we can industrially grow them in other areas, that we can really make big money, and especially in the islands, to help these people establish technology, so that we can exploit this natural wealth we do almost nothing. Health tourism. Losinj and Rab have micro areas that are unique on this planet. There are no allergens at all, and in these areas every patient with an allergy to the airways feels very, very good for a very short time. So what God has given us should be used. We don't use, we don't advertise. Mediterranean agriculture. We had state secretaries a hundred years ago 30 million olives along our coast, especially on the islands. Today we only have 3 million olives, 10% of what we had a hundred years ago. Efforts seem to be making great efforts in some areas, but not in all areas. Where there are no personnel, there are no people, there's no way the state has to go in with its ideas, with its people, with our help, we have to help these people. There are no personnel at individual locations that can be, to contribute to the economic development of these areas. As far as health care is concerned, my colleague Chikesh was talking about this segment, but I have to say that my colleagues from Cres have sent me a series of complaints about health care on Cres Island. It's a huge island with only 3,000 inhabitants. By standards they have the right to 2 doctors, let one be on vacation, and sometimes it must be, let one be on sick leave, and sometimes it must be sick, the other almost gets hurt. He goes with a patient I don't know in Rijeka if there's an accident, it's an island without a doctor for hours. Let him go on a home visit to Bela 30 kilometers from the center of the island, the other half for hours and hours and hours without a doctor. God forbid there's a car accident or something. We need to get past this situation, we need to go beyond the standard, not to mention the period of summer that Dr. Chikesh spoke, certainly there should be additional efforts. Telemedicine. We talked a lot about her, talked a lot, bragged a lot. I'm asking you how many diagnosiss have been established through telemedicine? How much did we use? How much did she pay off? We don't have a report here. I know what the report is going to be if it's put on paper, but here on purpose here I'm a little provoking to see a little bit and... in some of our big investments with which we are politically boasting, but we need to do more to practically function these segments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The island council. I think Secretary of State that the island council must have a new, more significant, more difficult role to play. The advisory body, the ficus, that's not enough. That island council, small shifts are made but not enough. When I looked at a little bit of what they were dealing with, what they were doing, what they were doing, and how they dealt with and how they were obeyed later by the state bodies, unfortunately that's not enough. The report says the Ministry of Defence for the construction of infrastructure facilities for the reception of marine radar on islands has invested 23 million. Well, that part could have been put on the same thing. Well, that didn't help any islanders, did it? 23 million. And it turns out we did something for the islanders. So, please rule out these segments in the future from the report that my islanders don't wash me, that I explain to them how we take great care of them, etc. This absolutely doesn't belong here. Promotion and representation of the island on an international basis, it was part of the National Development Programme of the island, or the Island Development Centre, which is the successor of the Board of Islands. In addition, I must say that today I am glad that we have had today on the agenda of these agreements with the European Union on assistance with environmental, transport and other infrastructures that we will finance in Zagreb and Dalmatia. However, there are too few such projects, and when it comes to such projects relating to the islands. It seems to me that we could and should have helped islands, designed projects and also funded them from pre-accession funds and tomorrow from structural funds. The European Union is prone to help areas where residents live in the so-called ‘European Union’. extreme conditions and these are islands. Thus, we must all make a lot more effort together to obtain these funds. I'll finish because the red light's already turned on with the company. I was recently on the island of Madera, a volcanic island where you wouldn't even go for a ride, pay for it, and I don't know what. Black island, barbed island, extremely ugly conditions. Every 20 minutes there's a plane landing with old people from Scandinavia. Every 20 minutes. The much nicer island of Krk, a much larger island of Krk, is generally a better island from the 9th month to the 4th month empty. It could be. It's one of us. We must make a really much greater effort to clearly train these islands for cultural tourism, health tourism and other forms that do not recognise the season and part of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83290	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few words, I'd say. In fact, I'm more encouraged by the presentations of colleagues and colleagues, especially Mrs. Chikesh and Mr. Topic, so I'd like to, let me just have a few brief notes. There is almost no island of Croatia that I have not been to, from Brijuni to Mljet, is almost gone. It's rare that I've never really been to. And for example, I'll take the island of Susak. The island of Susak has a modern water supply network, a modern sewerage network, has a new port, a beautiful port on which a statue, a boat can fit large, has a school from first to fourth grade, has a home for older people, has a hospital, has several guest houses, church, cemetery, local office, daily catamaran connection with Rijeka and Losinj. And now I'm asking you. What's a young man who ends up saying elementary or high school, what's he gonna do there? That's the question we have to think about. That's the way to set things up. Therefore, the municipal and social infrastructure on this island is much better than in some far larger, more serious and other centres in the Republic of Croatia. But there's nothing people can do about it. Sometimes Susak had a winery, he had heard a little fish-processing plant, he had vineyards and people had something to do. There is now no other than private accommodation, there is no infrastructure for accommodation and development of tourism. There isn't, there isn't. It's supposed to mean that. But on the other hand, you have to here, as Mr. Doric said, think in a way that will motivate me to come to one of our islands not in summer, 6, 7 and 8 months but now, this time. What am I gonna do there? So in this sense, we need to develop activities and promote development, measures to develop the economy because ultimately we need to work on that that's what the natives, I can say for myself because I'm an islander of origin and I hope that all my descendants will also be, that we live there well. We don't need to build anything for someone who'll be there, so stay, so go, etc., because otherwise we'll be leaving the island. And let it be a thread of guidance in thinking about how to deal with islands. Otherwise, we have many commissions or associations at various levels of Mediterranean, European, etc. They kind of want reservations where they'll feel good when they get here. But we islanders have to live here if we want to live and if we don't want them to become reservations for those who come there occasionally. And for the rest of us to have to do something. I said on behalf of the club how many jobs have been shut down by the godless rationalization of the administration, etc., in that I don't know, various segments. So it's completely opposite of this. The measures should encourage good ones, and there is much clear what has been done well in this. However, for every commendation is traffic connections, etc., and this social municipal infrastructure but without a job there is no survival on the islands. When was the largest depopulation of the island? When the peronospor came. Peronospora destroyed the vineyards, destroyed the source of life on the islands, and people left. It's bad for us and the nursing home and this and that if there's nothing to do. That's what I want to point out in the end, that let it be a guideline for us to think about those who decide how it's going to be on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83292	The word of Honorable Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Final Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, given that time has passed, it seems to me that I need to look back at a few remarks and say something that I didn't say in the introduction. I think that while I was listening to the gentlemen of the council, I made a note of it, so I'd like to point it out. First of all, what I would say is that as much as I invest in Croatian islands clearly with the Croatian islands there will always be islands and will always be separated from the mainland. And that alone, the fact that they are separated, that they are not an integral part of the land in a certain way will lead them into an unequal position. And all that is done for Croatian islands, however much money is invested in Croatian islands, as much as it is invested in these projects can hardly be compensated for that one separation from land and the fact that you do not belong to that land in a way that is clear to one who, and that you cannot live on an island the way one who lives on land can live simpler and cheaper. However, the fact is that 13 or 14 new, completely new projects have been created in the term of the government, which have in some way triggered a number of other developments on Croatian islands. But before I list which projects are, which you will certainly recognize clearly because they have been happening lately, I would like to say that it is not true that 2.7% of the population is exactly how much on Croatian islands compared to the entire Croatian Corps, it is not said that 1 and a half of the state budget is said to be said but is being allocated to us more. In the report you received, we wrote that the government has invested around 3 billion kunas in all the ministries, in all the state administrations and in the public sector, but there are no pensions, salaries in health, education, public administrations involved. So if we were to add that part to that is whether, and that's about two billion kunas somewhere. I have exactly how much on Croatian islands is paid out of the State budget to all employees only from the State budget then it is about 5 billion and 300, and then more than 5% of the State budget which, the State budget is about 103 billion kuna. Therefore, with two billion 900, we only presented projects relating to capital projects of the house, investments, and maintenance houses and subsidies that are subsidized from the budget and refer to Croatian islands. So we're not the part of the State budget that goes to employees and pensioners. Another thing that, let me list what projects have been made lately, which are very important and which I think are actually depicting one enhanced concern of the Croatian state versus the island. And that is, the islanders recognize it with all these clear allegations and the facts that Mr. Topic said and all together that you mentioned. We should do even more, but within the scope of the State budget, I think that, that a significant part of the islanders' demands is really being solved. So "CEP 4", we talked about it, I wouldn't talk about it unless it was the most meaningful project that ever went to a state administration in the Croatian islands. Never in history, not even Austria-Hungarians, to whom many times the islanders are invited, I am an islander who built an extremely, extremely large number of ports, a port. Some 60km of long-term operational shores were not as flat as the "Cep 4" project and no state administration on Croatian islands has implemented such a demanding, complex project as "CEP 4". The second thing that was introduced immediately after this government was appointed, after the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development which is precisely affecting me seems to be all those problems, the projects that the islanders expect to have been resolved by the state government was the introduction of vignettes. So island tickets to vehicles owned by islands. So for vehicles registered on the islands. And that's not a little bit. That's 46 and a half thousand vehicles that got vignettes and used that discount. This discount is only for the needs of Jadrolinija to settle the difference between the price that was until then and the newly introduced vignette that brought a discount of 30 to 50%. It depends when we look at the season or beyond the season. The amount of more than 20 million kuna was therefore to be additionally subsidized from the State budget only in Jadrolinia so that it could normally operate because its income was so reduced by the basis of ticket sales because of the reduced price for their vehicles. And otherwise, when we talk about the number of vehicles and the traffic connection of the island, then we have to say that somewhere around 12 million passengers travel from the island to the mainland and from land to the island and about 3 and a half million vehicles. Therefore, you can see for yourself what is the maritime traffic and how much in this system of clearly privileged tickets provided by the vignette. Furthermore, last year, at the beginning of June, we introduced night lines. These night lines were so expected from the island with the right and justified and with this one small measure 90% of all Croatian islanders are constantly connected with Croatian islands, with the mainland and for this measure an additional 6 million kuna was to be installed to compensate again for the clear costs of the shipowners who carry out the line. Furthermore, we have introduced a programme to encourage island employment in such a way that we have given to every entrepreneur, i.e. from the Budget, subsidize with one gross monthly salary per year if it is less developed islands. Or half a salary if that's the case on, on better-developed islands. We have further amended the Law on the financing of local self-government units. And that is the only way that only one change has allowed the islands to decentralize over 20 million kunas from the budget. What I also want to say is, what we can record the work of this administration and the maritime transport administration and this ministry is an intense investment in ports. We built or reconstructed or restored 43 ports in three years. 43 ports, 37 of them in maritime transport, and 6 of them are ports of local importance in which no ferry or catamarans sail but in any case we have restored those ports. For example, I will tell you in the term of last government that only four ports are arranged or built or restored. And that's what we can say here: Susak, the coast, some shore on Rab, the port in Vis and one unfortunate solution in Rogac on Solta, which we now have to change completely, and these days we signed a contract with the County Port Authority in Split to invest about 25 million kuna again in Rogac, that same port that was previously arranged. We went on to go on a project to rebuild the fishing fleet. You've told Mr. Antesic before that the ministry has invested only 700 thousand kuna, it's true. And it wasn't just about rebuilding the fishing fleet or fishing equipment on the islands. This was all in all what the ministry had solved in that section. But that was before the fishing fleet project started. We have arranged 25 fishing vessels with 30% of the state budget and this has not entered this report that will only enter into the 2006 report so that the project will show how much it was done on that part. But that's... The project and I think we welcome it all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, here we are on the Island Council when many of you have mentioned and who Mr. Stengl will be right on Visa, and we will visit what you said on the second Friday, so the 6th session of the Island Council on Vis will be adopted, or the Island Council will be informed of the Regulation on the introduction of the island product. So we're introducing the exact product. This was about how many quality famous agricultural and other products are on Croatian islands. With the Regulation on the island product on the Croatian island product, we brand each island product if it meets certain conditions and criteria that the Regulation itself prescribes. In this way, we want to encourage it to be easier, easier to identify on the market, easier to sell and thus help island producers. Furthermore, what is very important, what Mr. Doric said and I agree that all measures in the municipal and social infrastructure are important but nevertheless the most important measures aimed at hiring and encouraging the island economy. But I will tell you, therefore, that the former government's incentives for long-term plantations have been double cut, or halved, when it comes to encouraging the long-standing promotion of olive groves and vineyards. The government has doubled these subsidies among the first measures on Croatian islands, and in the case of long-term plantations on vineyards and long-term olive groves. When you talk about the abolition of certain state institutions on the islands, no single state institution has been abolished. And I will remind you, Mr. Antesic, of the two decisions of the previous government that have been quite unpleasantly accepted on Croatian islands. For 11 years, I was the head of an island community. I know exactly how unpopular the two measures were. The first measure is the abolition of police stations on Croatian islands. And another measure is the abolition of the legal personality of the health care home. So I have to say that by amending the Health Protection Act, this government has brought legal personality back to all health homes that were already on Croatian islands, but here is the interesting thing to do from your county, so there is also a response to Mr. Doric for the Health House on Cres. Still only the County of the coastal-goranska did not implement the law and returned that personality to Krk, legal personality neither on Krk, on Rab, on Cres or Mali Losinj. Therefore, we cannot talk about abolishing any institution. I have to say that cutting out the courts on the islands is not a thought. And about the part about the removal of the observation and intelligence center, you're right. So it's about abolishing from 31.12.2007, under the obligation to make sure that all employees of these centres are clearly taken care of. Furthermore, what is also the new project of this government is the creation of a study of state development of nautical tourism, it is completed, so the study is completed and going now into development, i.e. at the end is the development of a strategy that will go to the government and later on to the Parliament in which all that was about the debate that I am not repeating there is no time, will be valorised. And that was why we abolished the Argonaut that we didn't look back on tonight in this debate. But the main objection was to Argonaut, which was not based on a strategy that would define the development of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia by the end. And another news that we also brought was the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Islands Act, which we introduced with the law the first purchase right to sell real estate in Croatian, small uninhabited and poorly populated Croatian islands so that we could clearly preserve these small Croatian pearls clearly not to come through the sale, that everything that we would not want to happen through them is not happening. And now, specifically, I'm going to answer a few questions. Mr. Peru mentioned the Pula-Li Lošinj-Silba-Zadar line. I refer to you, we refer to it. So there was a desire to bring this line to an end, to restore it. However, we did not find a common language with the City of Mali Lošinj and with the counties that should be subsidized with us. And later on, we don't even have the right ship to run that line. You know very well that at this time Jadrolini does not have a ship that could quickly connect Pula through Mali Losinj and Silba to Zadar. Here, and as far as the other questions are concerned, I've already been left by some MPs so I don't answer them. But in any case, what I want to say is that through the measures that we have established, we can say to the greatest extent possible that the depopulation of Croatian islands is stopped, and that another additional momentum is needed to bring life back to the Croatian islands as it would have wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83294	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. Tomorrow, it's 9:30. The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-07-0.u83295	Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2004 and 2005 I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2004 and 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 for, 9 abstentions reached the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on - the report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The report was delivered by the government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the spatial arrangement and protection of the environment, work and social policy and health. You received the reports at the session. Secretary of State Davor Mrduljas, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction.
