ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88284	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is - Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2006 in accordance with Article 21. The Law on Gender Equality has been submitted to that report. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. And as we can see, Gordana Proposer Lukač-Koritnik wants to give an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88285	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the honourable MPs, and the honourable MPs. A report on the work of the Ombudsman, as the law says about gender equality for 2006 is the fourth regular annual report submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Parliament. And it shows the lawyer's activities in monitoring the implementation of gender equality laws and other rules regarding gender equality. As regards the general indicators shown in the report on the work of the office, it should be pointed out that during 2006, there were two thousand 432 cases in total: a thousand 170 cases opened in 2006 and a thousand 257 cases transferred from earlier years. The number of cases should be considered primarily related to the legal obligations of the Advocate General for Gender Equality as a control mechanism for the application of the relevant provisions of the Gender Equality Act. According to the Law on Gender Equality, the Ombudsman is not only considering cases of discrimination against individuals or groups of individuals who have committed bodies of the state administration, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other bodies with public authority, employees of those bodies and other legal and natural persons and cases of violations of the principle of gender equality, but also monitoring the implementation of this law and other regulations. Therefore, the largest number of cases relate precisely to the monitoring of the application of the law by the Advocate General's initiative, as well as those of those cases transferred from earlier years. The two thousand 432 cases concerned a total of 217 cases received under complaints from citizens, 193 of them new cases from 2006 and 24 from earlier periods. A total of two thousand 215 cases which are not complaints against citizens, of which 982 cases were opened by the lawyer's initiative or by letters received from other state institutions, organisations or legal persons in 2006. And a thousand 233 from earlier times. The parties that received the advice over the phone were on average 20 weeks and were all recorded. So, during 2006, two thousand 204 cases were completed, which is 90.7% of the cases of which 83.9% were received by complaints from citizens and citizens, and 91.3% of the cases were opened by the prosecutor's initiative. Unfinished cases carried over in 2007 are 228, 35 of which refer to complaints from citizens and citizens. As regards the handling of cases, the Ombudsman gave 49 warnings, more than in 2005, as well as 55 recommendations, and requested supervision in 6 cases. And after proceedings have been carried out and discrimination has been established, therefore, after measures taken by the Advocate General against some perpetrators have been initiated by the Police by criminal or criminal proceedings. I would like to stress that the issue of supervision was mainly requested by the State Inspectorate when it came to labour market discrimination, and employers mostly and private employers failed to comply with the Ombudsman's request for a report and documentation, and in this regard the power to seek supervision was used. A large part of the subject matter relating to the monitoring and application of the Law on Gender Equality refers to the obligation to adopt action plans under the Law on Gender Equality. In 2006, the number of these plans we consider important, and we considered it an important way of implementing gender-aware policies and the basis for increasing employment, education and progress of sub-represented sex in these bodies and legal persons. During this reporting period, a large number of state bodies, legal entities with public authority and legal persons in the bulk of ownership of the state or units of local and regional self-government fulfilled their legal obligation to adopt plans and, among other things, brought forward nine further ministries, two central state offices and five state administrations. And advertising the need for jobs in accordance with the law is largely carried out exactly in accordance with the law and in this area has been a very intensive action of our office, which is a detailed analysis in the report. As far as the structure of the complaint and the individual complaints are concerned, they are from all parts of the Republic of Croatia, but beyond all of Zagreb, which indicates that it is necessary to strengthen the activities of the Ombudsman and her office in all of the counties. The main complaints are related to the area of domestic violence and to the field of work and employment. Individual complaints increased by 11% compared to 2005 and related to parental care and domestic violence, harassment and discrimination in the field of labour and employment and other forms of discrimination. The increased number of complaints suggests a violation of the rights of citizens and citizens based on gender in all areas of life especially in the field of labour and employment, and protection against domestic violence. However, a number of complaints also point to one positive connotation, which is a greater awareness of citizens and citizens in terms of the possibility of seeking protection and the achievement of their rights in the field of gender equality, labour and employment and protection against domestic violence, more information on which they can address for help in seeking protection, which is certainly the result of all activities, campaigns, strategies and programmes that have been brought and implemented primarily by other state bodies, ministries, institutions, associations and arrangements dealing with issues of gender equality and protection against violence. The number of complaints from men continues to increase especially regarding parental care. As regards discrimination in the field of labour and employment, the complaint was referred predominantly to by women. However, in order to avoid the possible consequences or unwanted response of employers, one part of the applicant addresses the Advocate-General as an anonymous complaint. In such cases, the Ombudsman was not able to consider the case in a comprehensive manner because of the reduced data in the complaint. However, in the case of anonymous complaints, we asked for a report and documentation from employers, a report on the conduct of the State Inspectorate. Part of such complaints concerns the working conditions in which women workers work especially in textile companies to avoid taking measures by employers on hygiene and technical protection at work, illegally introducing overtime, non-payment for overtime and forcing workers to work both on Saturdays and Sundays under the threat of termination of work contracts. In all such cases, the Ombudsman warned employers not to enable workers to exercise their labour rights equally and on the basis of equal opportunities. It is characteristic that unanonymous complainants often file a complaint and ask the prosecutor to take measures under her jurisdiction only when they have been announced the termination of a working relationship, and even when the complaint has already occurred, apparently wanting to prevent them from losing their jobs or assessing that they have nothing left to lose. The complaint also points to preventing progress on the basis of gender and inequality in the exercise of labour rights and on the basis of work, the removal of jobs where applicants worked or moved to less paid employment, especially after returning from maternity leave. By considering a case similar to that of the previous reporting period, we noticed the following. Some employers have not yet settled their acts procedures and measures to protect the dignity of workers and workers and have not appointed a person who is authorised to receive and resolve complaints for them. One part of the procedure was not regulated by the employers in a satisfactory manner, nor did they allow workers and workers to learn about the procedure and the existence and powers of the person authorised to receive and resolve complaints. A relatively large part of the complaint concerns the violation of the right to the protection of motherhood and, of course, as complainants, only women appear and it has been observed that employers most often violate the rights of women workers in the following ways. They are moved to another post after their return from maternity leave and, in cases where workers have objected to such decisions, their work contract is rarely cancelled. Unlawfully cancel work contracts for unspecified pregnant women, do not offer new work contracts for a certain period of time for pregnant women when they learn about pregnancy. Generally discriminatory are treated by workers who return to work after maternity leave and workers who need to take greater care of their underage children and very often with the aim of eliminating them from their jobs. In such cases, the Ombudsman, in addition to the warning, gave employers and recommendations to reconsider their behaviour towards that category of workers, particularly underlining the obligation to respect the rights to protect the safety and health of pregnant women, workers who had recently given birth, breast-feeding workers or enhanced care for minor children. I should say here that through the characteristic cases that we have shown in the report it is evident that employers have also responded positively or responded immediately after seeking a lawyer but, of course, this was mainly about those cases when it comes to working on a fixed period of time, while when contracts are at a certain time, there is no legal assistance either, and they have acted far less on the recommendations. The complaints concerning employment discrimination were also filed by men, especially because they were denied access to jobs traditionally performed by women. It is alarming that there are no complaints about gender pay inequality. In doing so, we think of wages for equality of wages for working equal value. The problem considered in the European Union with the greatest possible attention because, according to the union's claims on the existence of such inequalities, there are a number of examples, however, this cannot be eliminated by the attorney's complaint and by the instructions of the trade unions. Of course, there is an inequality in wages by looking generally between men and women. That's what all the statistics show. It is my pleasure to say that there has just been a new statistical presentation by the State Statistics Institute on the position of men and women for the past year. So it keeps going on and on. The matter of statistics has been resolved in a good way. However, this problem of unequal wages for working equal value cannot actually be detected by complaints to any unions, either by lawyers. The Ombudsman believes it is very important that people in the field of work and employment who are discriminated against on the basis of marital status and family status and not only gender. Because such discrimination is prohibited by the Law on Gender Equality, and during this reporting period it is clearly recognised as the lawyer's jurisdiction for gender equality. Through statements we made about some statements or about writing to the media, we specifically looked back on this kind of discrimination because we felt that we needed to somehow regain that kind of discrimination. It is much easier to recognize gender discrimination already, and much less on the basis of marital and family status. I have to say about the status of women in the labour market that in the advisory work after we have explained the whole procedure that we have to address the employer, look for a report, look for documentation and that we do so directly that very often the complainants give up the complaint in cases where they are still working and there is no direct announcement of termination of employment. Thus, in the past reporting period, it is evident that fear of the potential loss of work is an obstacle for women to actively protect their rights. It has also been observed and concerned that this would also mean a lengthy court procedure because the judiciary is experiencing slow and ineffective and are also concerned about the costs of such proceedings. With regard to gender equality, which is given and defined in the Law on Gender Equality and by following the law, we have analysed the status of women and men in all ministries, and the research details are detailed in the report. It is obvious that women work mostly in the underpaid jobs, and female under-representation in diplomacy is evident. Otherwise, the number of women employed in the ministry is satisfactory, but we believe that given the obligations put before the police that their number in the police should certainly be increased. As far as gender-based harassment is concerned, we conducted research in colleges together with the Standard for Women's Studies. The report describes this in detail. A relatively small number responded to the questionnaire but the aim was to raise awareness of the student population and actually regulate the issue of such possible harassment at university or university level. It is my pleasure to say that an ethical code has just been adopted this year and that the code also regulates the issue of gender-based harassment. As this will apply, whether it will be only at the level of the University, what sanctions it will remain to see but last year we also spoke with the Rector of the University about this action. We've asked permission from all colleges for access, and I think that this problem will simply be regulated where it needs to be regulated. Otherwise, as regards employment, it should be pointed out that the government has proposed specific employment incentives. Through the Croatian Employment and Individual Ministry Office and through specific measures to encourage the employment of targeted unemployed groups. The results are detailed in the report but since 2006 the Annual Employment Encouraging Plan has been in force, which has different measures compared to the previous 2005 plan, different carriers and in some repositories data are not followed by sex, it is not possible to combine the employment effects in 2006 with previous years. However, we have suggested that special sensitive groups continue to be encouraged because in some measures they are put together so that it is very difficult to detect how many groups are actually assigned. Family violence. Further developments are visible in the fight against domestic violence thanks to the legislative framework, as well as national strategies adopted and the significant impact of supervisory mechanisms such as the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality or the Office of the Ombudsman for Children. In particular, it is pointed out that police have worked very intensively in this area of intervention, by filing criminal charges with proposals for different safeguards, education of their employees and employees, and in cases of observed failures, this is evident from the examples given in the report presented by the Ombudsman and the additional education of its employees and employees and by the strict procedures. Of course the number of complaints has increased. I would not explain here now, in the report, today's statistics on domestic violence and all our objections and our assessment regarding the application of the rules regarding family violence. I must say, however, that nearly 17,000 requests for police intervention are 10 murdered women last year from my married and out-of-marriage partners, the reason to really do much more at the prevention of domestic violence, although the government, the Ministry of the Family, the defender and intergenerational solidarity last year initiated a national campaign against violence against women, which was also given a presentation in the report. And our office is monitoring the campaign. As far as education is concerned, we have analyzed actually the work of women and men on scientific projects because I have to say that what and who is actually studying, at which colleges that this segregation in education is later transferred to segregation on the labour market. For what you've been educated like that, it's also on the labour market, so women who study more than 90% almost in pharmaceuticals work in certain places, people who are educated to work in kindergartens are also women. As far as the media is concerned, we followed the regular media and analyzed a total of 3105 articles. The largest number was related to violence against women and women on the labour market, and here I would return to the announcements that our office's statements are strictly related to our jurisdiction, regardless of what statements or advertisements have and content that should be criticised from other aspects. As for political parties last year, we did not get any action plan on the issue of balanced representation of women and men, which is actually a legal obligation under the Law on Gender Equality. But the deadline for the adoption of the plan is actually about July 31st, 2007 so it should then be seen whether and after the expiry of the deadline these plans have not been adopted. As regards the Advocate's Office, the situation described in the report has been described in the statement of office officials and officials of the Advocate's Office. However, regardless of the number of employees and employees, the office functioned. This is seen through the high resolve of the case, even though we had an increased number, and as is said in this analysis given the court's dispute, we think we should wait for a final verdict. Finally, I think it is important to stress that it is necessary to adopt a law on free legal assistance, that it is in fact necessary to increase women's participation in political decisions and, of course, to point out the shifts. We have already mentioned the issue of statistics, the issue of violence where it really works, the issue of advertising in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, so I think society is generally more sensitive. You can see that from writing to the media. This number of articles dedicated actually to things that are related to gender equality proves that this is a topic in our society. We also see progress as we have already said in the adoption of action plans. We're actually with it at the end and we think that provision has been fulfilled. However, it is not to be expected that the consistent application of the measures provided for in national policy to promote gender equality in the Republic of Croatia in 2006 to 2010 for which it is extremely important to adopt. But it was passed at the end of the reporting period, so it could not, of course, be monitored for its application. It is not expected that this will be enough, and measures to reduce the high rate of unemployed women, strong vertical and horizontal segregation on the labour market and the prevailing of women mean in less paid sectors. There is also a need to include legislative changes, as well as changing practices, to prevent abuse of the conclusion of a work contract for a certain period of time. The State Inspectorate, it seems to me that one of the most important things is to be financially and humanely strengthened because major violations of labour rights including, among others, discrimination, protection at work, unpaid and illegal overtime, and the rights of pregnant women are often repeated with the same employers, and the possibilities of the State Inspectorate do not allow spot checks on each application against the same employer. We with the State Inspectorate have good cooperation as well as good cooperation with state bodies. We have good cooperation with the Committee on Gender Equality, with the Ministry of the Family, the Office for Human Rights. Likewise with the NGO sector, and with those who are directly working on law enforcement, co-operation has also significantly improved. It's both the police and the welfare centers, and we can't really say that they don't answer our questions, that they don't provide us with the paperwork. Then they do it sometimes with a delay, but I think there's only one way to talk about good cooperation. I suggest that the Croatian Parliament adopt this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88286	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Gordana Sobol on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88287	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2006. In the opening presentation of the Ombudsman, she met the Committee on Business Activities related to the Monitoring and Implementation of the Law on Gender Equality, and other regulations that legally elaborated constitutional principles of gender equality, which refer to the 2006 reporting period. The future actions of the Ombudsman concerned the resolution of cases in the field of discrimination in the field of employment and labour, discrimination in the field of education, the area of violence, family and parental care, the scope of the Law on Gender Equality in state bodies and bodies with public authority, units of local and regional self-government, the monitoring of the application of the law to other legal and physical persons, media content, paid advertising, and the monitoring and fulfilment of the law required for political parties. As in previous years, women and prosecutors are largely women, although the number of complaints from men is increasing especially in cases relating to the inability to hire in usual women's activities such as kindergartens, schools, city pharmacies and the like. During 2006, 193 complaints were received and related to domestic violence and parental care. Almost 60% of the harassment and discrimination in the field of labour and employment is about 35% and a little more than 5% of the cases remain. According to the Ombudsman’s initiative, the basis of a letter from other institutions, organisations or legal entities was 1175 cases. According to the Ombudsman, the number of complaints relating to labour and employment discrimination does not in fact reflect the objective situation. It found that the negative experiences of persons who complained of inequality in the exercise of labour rights were generally out of work after the complaint. Compared to 2005, it increased the share of discrimination based on marital and family status and decreased gender and sexual orientation. It has been indicated that problems in the employment and position of women in the labour market, especially those older than 45 years of life, which are difficult to find new employment, should be employed as a priority. The share of unemployed women in the total number of unemployed has been unchanged for a long time, constantly around 60%, suggesting that the measures implemented on the women's employment plan as particularly sensitive categories are not sufficient. It has been pointed out that the law on gender equality continues not to apply and a satisfactory measure although there have been positive shifts in this reporting period, especially in the case of tendering for employment in private employers. The debate also found that no law on the provision of free legal aid has been adopted, nor has the amendment of the Law on protection against domestic violence, despite the obligations arising from the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence for the period 2005 to 2007 and the announcements of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a conclusion that accepts the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88288	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88289	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the D.A., colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say that the SDP Club will accept the Attorney General's report for 2006. Although, of course, somewhere I feel that both here and with this Attorney General, the question arises whether it may be necessary to strengthen our attorney's institutions in terms of giving greater authority. We've been having this debate with the attorney general. Now we've just finished discussing the Child's Attorney General's report for the children. Now we have a lawyer for gender equality. Because in fact they all have, and so does the lawyer for gender equality, powers of warning, giving recommendations, etc. But of course, the question is how much on the one hand is respected in certain areas, and on the other hand, as much as it does in the end, in this area when it comes to the position of women and men in the best possible way, we also realize a constitutional provision that has marked gender equality as one of the highest categories. On behalf of the SDP club, I would especially like to stay in two areas. And this is the area we are talking about work and employment, i.e. discrimination in the field of work and employment when it comes to women. And in the area where we talk about violence against women. But it is certain that, since this is an election year, it would deserve to talk about women in politics, women in decision-making positions. But given that the Ombudsman herself in the opening section said that somewhere in July 2007, it was one deadline within which our political parties should essentially give according to the Law on Gender Equality to their action plans when it comes to women and men. I believe that as political parties in that part, we will do what is expected in the 11 month parliamentary elections. When we talk about the field of work and employment in the SDP, we believe that it is one of the most important areas through which women can be seen in one society and in Croatian as well. And in some ways, if there is no equal or equal position, equal chances for women and men are a source of some way all other discrimination, or discrimination in all other areas. And in fact, there is a sentence that is said in this report when it comes to discrimination in the field of labour and employment. In fact, the defense attorneys observed very similar violations of women's rights in this area as it was in the past reporting period. What I would actually say is that obviously what we said about that previous report obviously didn't have enough echoes. When we talk about women on the labour market and women's position then I remind you on behalf of the club that, in the national policy itself, to promote gender equality from 2006 to 2010 adopted in October of last year, it is said among other things that the most important indicators of women's unequal position are still contained in their overhalf share in the total number of unemployed persons and different forms of discrimination in employment and professional advancement. At the end of April of this year, according to statistics from the Employment Service, the share of women in the total number of unemployed was 61%. It's 61.2% today. I think it's a data that we need to worry about because it's a data that's been on a constant rise from month to month for two years. It may seem to us that somewhere in between I don't know April or March that there's no big difference. And when you take a longer period of time to consider it, then you'll see that it's one constant that unfortunately doesn't know how to jump. When we talk about the ways in which we try to solve this issue, then we are primarily talking about the measures implemented from the state level through different ministries, through different employment programmes, through the Action Programme of Employment. However, how many of these measures are, and to what extent we have actually managed to achieve what has been drawn out in the National Policy, unfortunately, we do not seem to have enough indicators. If you take that somehow the most funds, at least that's what it says, given in the Employment Action Plan, or annual employment plans, we unfortunately can't, and the attorney herself said, are doing any comparison to whether these employment plans, which relate to special categories of women, have had any effect compared to what we had in the previous years. Women are a more employable category. We talk about the problem of women entering the labour market over and over again with different pay phones on different suitable dates and anniversarys about how women are asked about family status, how they are asked about the number of children, about the age of children, about who they are, how they decide to start a family and have a contract, then if they have a contract indefinitely forced to sign a changed contract, then it becomes a contract at a certain time, so when they stay at home and then they want to go back to work after a certain period, then it's certainly a problem again because they don't usually find someone who is in their workplace and they're offered some less paid job. So these are the facts that I'm saying today, we're just talking, and we don't really have a solution today, or we do, and we don't want to spend them. We have put certain measures in place in this regard and outlined in national policy to promote gender equality. But I will also be very interested in us at the SDP club after these few years, how many women will be employed by these measures during this four-year period. I'm afraid of what a very small number says inside. Furthermore, this year is at European level, years of equal opportunities. It refers to all sensitive groups in certain societies, applies in one part and achieves the equal position of women. One of the fundamental elements that are managed at European Union level, which is the big area when it comes to addressing women's employment issues, coordinating family and professional life. In that part of Croatia, we did absolutely nothing, and we do not seem to have any intention of taking any steps. We will again, on occasion, only find out how women are burdened through their regular workplace if they are able to have it, how they are burdened with household chores and how they are burdened with childcare, that is, not to be forgotten by the care of older households who make up a household. We will remain only at the conclusion, and unfortunately when it comes to the measures that we would do in that part and as a state, that is, as Government, we do absolutely nothing. In that part I have to say we can, we brought national population policy last year. We can talk about how more children were born, we can want to have positive shifts in our demographic image in some number of years. However, we forget that the only states that have made a turn are the ones that have directed the most space and the most measures and the most financial resources towards the employment of women and men, namely towards their unification, but in their unification in all other parts, or spheres of life. Recently here in the Croatian Parliament, at least one part of my fellow MPs, had the opportunity to speak to a Norwegian parliamentarian, they are just an example of such a state. I'm not saying that we can compare ourselves right now with Norway and that, and I think that we can at least wish that we at the SDP club want it, but then we expect that some of the proposals for measures concrete that we will make through the viewing period in that section are also coming from the government level. Furthermore, about women in the labour market. It is true that women work in Croatia, and most of them are in those activities that are less paid for. However, I would like to warn you again, the European Commission has, on the very occasion of this year's international women's day, launched a major action against national governments and certain things are required by national governments, so to examine why most women are in such underpaid activities, but not only to be examined but to propose concrete measures to overcome such a situation, and the same applies to wage differences. We have just begun in Croatia, I would say about this problem. Research done so far at Croatia's level shows that the wage difference between women and men is 19.7%. The average at European Union level is about the same. But I, on behalf of the SDP Club, call on the government to do so in a similar way as in the European Commission's guidelines on this issue so that we do not discuss this issue in the end of the year in a similar way. When it comes to violence against women on behalf of the SDP club, I want to say a few sentences. Croatia did, and compared to a number of other countries, has made major steps in the legislative section and in national policies. However, we warn that when it comes to what is drawn, we are again in a situation not to carry it out. Take a national strategy to protect against domestic violence and see what it says and when we should have brought some things. I agree with the Advocate General who says that according to the national strategy, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Family Violence has been prepared, and some other things have been prepared, i.e. the Law on Free Legal Assistance has been prepared somewhere. But that's something we should have had if I wasn't wrong, at least a year ago. But nothing like that yet. I also warn again, the issue of the protocol is not enough to write one I would say a good protocol that is expected to work coordinated at all levels of all state institutions and local institutions if not investing enough in the education of those who will apply the protocol and who will have to coordinate with each other on the basis of this protocol. We have not reduced the number of violence, the violence is increasing, and we are particularly warning about the increased number of most severe forms of violence, and I would say that there is still a long way to go when it comes to violence against women, even if it's tolerable because unfortunately it's one of the areas we'll never be able to root out. Once again on behalf of the SDP club, we support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88290	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney, the esteemed deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the 2006 Ombudsman's 2006 report on gender equality, starting from Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which gender equality falls to the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. We have considered this report knowing that the role of the Ombudsman for gender equality is to implement the Law on Gender Equality which defines and regulates ways of protection against gender discrimination and mechanisms for creating equal opportunities for women and men as well as the implementation of all other rules relating to gender equality. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government's Office for Gender Equality established in 2004 co-ordinators and co-ordinators for Gender Equality in all units of local and regional (regional) self-government, i.e. in the offices of the state administration and the County Committee for Gender Equality. The report shows that a large number of state bodies of legal entities with public authority and legal persons with a significant ownership of the state or units of local and regional (regional) self-government have fulfilled the legal obligation to adopt action plans to promote gender equality. This government gives great attention to gender equality, and all working groups include, in all working groups, the Ombudsman for gender equality, which I believe and will personally confirm. In the prosecutor's office for gender equality, citizens, groups, institutions and other legal entities address written submissions, complaints, come personally to talk or address on the phone. The question arises how much work could be done when the Committee on Human Rights estimated that there are difficulties affecting human relations in the internal functioning of the Ombudsman’s Office for Gender Equality. The Office shall operate with less than half of the intended staff, i.e. without the majority and professional service and without part of the general service. We've been discussing the DA's report for the kids these days. We saw in parallel that it handles over a thousand complaints, and this Order in 2006 received 193 complaints from citizens and citizens, which was only 11% higher than in 2005 and related to domestic violence and parental care 115 cases, harassment and discrimination in the field of work and employment 68 cases and 10 cases received due to other discrimination. And after handling the Ombudsman's cases, she gave 49 warnings, 55 recommendations, 12 proposals, and in 6 cases, requested supervision. From such small numbers, the percentages are higher. For example, if you have 12 suggestions, it's 33.3% higher than 2005. So statistics are easily interpreted as who they fit, or you can see exactly if you have 4, and then 8 then it's 50%, so on small numbers, the percentage is large. The parties that received the advice on the phone when you look at the report show that there were only 20 of them per week on average. In the Croatian Democratic Community club, there is more discrimination in the field of labour and employment than shown in this report 1.5% more than in 2005. We believe that because of the lack of visibility of the Ombudsman's work in the public and its warning of the injured principle of gender equality or the implementation of measures provided for by the legislation or the implementation of measures envisaged by national policy to promote gender equality in the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010. The public is obviously not sufficiently sensitive in terms of the existence of the Gender Equality Office. It is not clear from the report that women still do not have equal opportunities to exercise their labour rights on an equal footing and on the basis of equal opportunities. They still have 20% lower wages in some places compared to male colleagues, many working on Saturdays and Sundays under the threat of termination of work contracts, were not paid for overtime, were prevented from progressing in the business. The report shows insufficient attaching of importance to the provisions on the protection of motherhood and parenting and the Labour Act and their application in practice, with special reference and the meaning of national population policy. The report says that a relatively large part of the complaint refers to a violation of the right to the protection of motherhood and that only women appear as complainants. Women are faced with the signing of a statement that they will not be pregnant while at a certain job workers are moving to another post after their return from maternity leave, illegally canceling work contracts on indefinitely pregnant women, etc. The lawyer should sensitize the public, should sensitize employers on the obligation to respect the right to protect the health of pregnant women, workers who have recently given birth, breast-feeding workers or enhanced care for minor children. In the field, despite harmonised laws with the laws of the European Union, we face the problem of law enforcement as well as violations of the rights under these laws. Lawyers point to stereotypes and prejudices that women cannot do all the jobs as men who have made observations that they have been denied access to a place that is traditionally for women. An analysis of the Ombudsman’s employment ad found that in 667 published ads it was not pointed out that both sexes could occur. Major progress has been made in the area of the protection of women and other victims of domestic violence, to which this government gives great importance in terms of multidisciplinary access where police, welfare centres, health institutions and judicial authorities are involved. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Ministry of Interior also contributed greatly. And in the defense attorney's report on some pages, for example. the objectives of the National campaign to combat domestic violence against women, parts of the protocol in the case of domestic violence and against women and obligations arising from the protocol are set out. So, just what's already been done. Although the report states that the largest number of complaints are related to police work, the Croatian Democratic Community club believes that police have made major progress from education to intervention but on every report of violence. In 2006, following reports of domestic violence against 15,000 277 people, a request was filed for the initiation of a misapplication, 6 thousand 263 people were detained, and 5 thousand 979 were detained. Members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club say there are not enough women police officers not to see from this report, which should be the protocol that this government has brought in. As for the welfare center, we think we should indicate which centres do not operate according to protocol. It says here in the report some centres, some failures, we don't know if you know what the centers are or if some centers are forgiven, protected from it. In 2006, the Ombudsman organised a survey of students and students of the University of Zagreb on the protection of dignity and the protection of sexual harassment at the university. There are 12,000 fliers divided. It's only back 731. So a flyer can't give a real picture in our society about the information of our students at the university. And in the end, we think that this report almost doesn't talk about mobbing and its consequences in society. Polls conducted so far in the Republic of Croatia indicate that the mobbing is present in a worrying range. We don't see that in this report. More often women appear 70%, almost half of them 40% are the most productive age of 36 to 50 years. In their private lives mobbing caused them stress, fatigue, dissatisfaction, depression, insomnia, etc. And in the attorney general's office, it's about the mobbing where you forgive, the least you'd expect. Did it come to him or not, the court decides? But what we are reading from the inspection supervision of the Central State Administration Office is that during the surveillance, it has found that some other jobs are not fully united, and are needlessly divided into several jobs, the supervision of individual acts has been made in the personal files of all employees in the office. The general remark applies to permit and pay attention, to the incompleteness, integrity and opacity of personal files, which lacks credible documents on the fulfilment of professional conditions for the performance of jobs, to which officials are assigned in this office. Two of them don't even have the proper training. The inspection shall conclude that there are certain difficulties in the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality with regard to the means of communication between the Advocate for Gender Equality as an official and head of the body and officials of the applicant. Since 16 March 2006, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of this Parliament has given an initiative for inspection because it was obvious that there was a problem of communication and work between the Ombudsman and the officials, or a problem of discrimination or violation of the dignity of them. It all leaves a mark on this report. And after the decision of the judicial authorities, we will be able to make a decision, a proper decision on the continued conduct of the attorney for gender equality. And until then, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will take note of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88292	Thank you very much. It is up to the IDS club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. She's gone. The club is losing its right to debate. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBH, MBS Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88293	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen! Here, then, let me refer to this report on behalf of the Regional Party Club. We will accept this report with certain remarks. But let me begin by pointing out that the prosecutor for gender equality is one of the mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia for achieving the constitutional principle of gender equality as well as the implementation of a series of international contracts and other documents that bind us to this fundamental, civilizational value. As a candidate country, Croatia is obliged to implement a Community framework strategy on gender equality. According to Article 5. The law on gender equality, gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities to exercise their rights as an equal benefit to the results achieved. Unfortunately, the reality in the Republic of Croatia is different, and it warns us about this and only this report points to it. In our opinion, no society in which political, cultural or religiously motivated reasons for discrimination against women or any other gender, gender, family status or sexual orientation can consider itself either democratic, or liberal, or the rule of law society. In this regard, Croatia can be praised as a state that at institutional level in a relatively short period since 2003, when the Law on Gender Equality formally reached a high level of institutionalisation of gender equality. In addition to the lawyer we also have the Parliamentary Committee on Gender Equality, the Government's Office for Gender Equality, we have coordinators in the bodies of the state administration and commissions in the bodies of local administrations and self-government. Last year, this Parliament also adopted a National Policy to promote gender equality from 2006 to 2010 as a basic strategic document aimed at eliminating women's discrimination and establishing real gender equality by implementing equal opportunities policy. It is the third such policy in the Republic of Croatia since 2000. The question is, however, to what extent these mechanisms function and whether these policies are implemented. In this light, the Ombudsman's report on gender equality from it as well as from a number of other sources including national policy, reports from associations and networks of civil society can only be found to be that in this Assembly we are passing laws and adopting non-implemented public policies or only partially implemented. This indirectly means that institutional mechanisms that fail to deliver results are also reduced to a bureaucratised state machinery that does not work. As one evidence of this, we can also give information, so what we have already heard today is that, for example, the number of unemployed women from year to year does not fall but is growing, so in 2005, the measures that went towards turning the trend. We also see from this report that the Ombudsman runs an disproportionate number of cases, a total of 5 thousand 432 in 2006 which are not direct complaints from citizens, but received letters from other state institutions, organisations or legal entities. The public and civil complaints themselves were a total of 217 of 193 new cases in 2006. Although this increase of 11% compared to the previous period is not enough in any case given the frequency of violence. Although some of these general objects may be commendable to the valuable initiative data that someone... the thesis that the institution is still not sufficiently visible and recognised in public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think the problem should be considered at two levels. First, whether the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality is well positioned in the system of state and public authorities, whether the existing law gives it sufficient authority, whether there are enough financial and human resources. Legal experts from women's group activists have for some time warned that the Law on Gender Equality, which should have been or should have been an organic law because it regulates the issue of human rights has not been passed, leading to its declarative character without the possibility of sanctions and without the obligation to harmonise other laws. The second level of the question was whether the defender herself was making optimal use of the powers and powers that were now given. In this few examples of individual complaints 217, it is difficult to talk about a representative sample, but the fact that the most complaints about parental care and domestic violence have increased in this period indicates that individuals and individuals are easier to address institutions and require the exercise of their rights if this creates an encouraging public atmosphere which, when it comes to a family case, is the case. In this regard, however, certain steps should be taken to encourage people to submit concepts of mobbing. But we are most concerned about a very small number of complaints in the field of work and employment when we know that women make up 60% of the unemployed and that the percentage remains on the rise. Women are double-discriminatory here. So, regardless of the fact that women make up a larger population in the Republic of Croatia, according to the latest census of the Republic of Croatia, there are 4 million 437 thousand 460 inhabitants. Of that, 2 million 301 thousand 560 thousand are women. On the other hand, the data is just telling us about the reverse proportionality of employment, i.e. The data tells us that in 2005, out of a million 371 thousand employees, only 617 thousand were women. So somewhere around 40 percent. So it's the other way around as far as the unemployed are concerned. In 2005, we recorded 308,000 738 unemployed in total. Of which the woman was 180,000, 796, so the figure went over 60%. So on the one hand, we have more unemployed women than men, and on the other hand, women who are employed are discriminated against in such a way that they have less average salaries. So the data, for example, for 2004, tells us that the net salary was 4 thousand 143 kuna, the men were getting a net salary of 4 thousand 341 kuna and women 3 thousand 885 kuna. There are special branches of industry where women are mostly employed, here I primarily think of textiles and shoe production. So the data tells us that in the production of textiles, the average salary was 2 thousand 448 kuna and there's a difference. That men were paid 2 thousand 989 and women were paid 2 thousand 275. We're talking about the average salary and the wages are actually less and they're moving somewhere than a thousand 300, a thousand 400, a thousand 500 kuna. It is therefore worrying that we can also see this diversity, and also discrimination against certain branches of industry. So just to warn about the production of textiles, we said there's 80% and more employed women as far as these salaries are concerned, that in the production of textiles, they pay up to 900 kuna, that salary receives 26.7% and they pay up to 2,000 and 200 kuna, so that's what they pay 21.1%. So we see that women are more socially endangered than men. So, under the conditions in which a huge number of women work, in so-called. Women's industries such as textiles, catering, chain of commerce were made known according to the complaints described in this report. However, it is indicative that they are very often anonymous, which again points to mistrust in the system and existing institutions. Let me read just one such example. So, it's about a case, a report filed by one of the workers in the textile industry. She was harassed at work by employers and her superiors. So she witnessed that there were insults, curses, threats, and various kinds of psychological harassment on her account. The employer shall not provide him or her with mandatory protection measures at work, as well as the employer unlawfully ordering overtime. She specifically stated that textile workers were constantly increasing the standard they could not meet. So let me remind you of this data I read just before that such textile workers living in such conditions get a large amount of pay of up to 2200 kn. In addition to these examples of violations of illegal introduction and non-payment of overtime, coercion to work on Sundays, discrimination and sexual abuse, layoffs and non-recognition of the rights of pregnant women and births appear to have become a daily woman employed in Croatia. The lawyer's warnings together will not solve these fundamental causes of injustice and discrimination. We also support the Ombudsman's proposals to systematically improve women's labour market status. We therefore propose to connect as best and more with certain border unions and the Economic Social Council. So we point out that these solutions require political will. Unfortunately, we testified about the lack of this political will several months ago and here in the Croatian Parliament when several parliamentary representatives also submitted an interpretation of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the situation in the textile and shoe industry. In this industry, we realized that there is a need to help the textile footwear industry precisely because a large number of women who have low salaries were employed in the industry. We also proposed certain measures to change that, i.e. We suggested that the government's textile and shoe industry subsidized, as well as some other branches of our industry. We could say conditionally male, such as shipbuilding, shipbuilding, which employs 11,000 employees and most men. The year gets 500, 600 million kuna. They got a lot more pay. On the other hand, the branches that women are conditionally said to be branches in which more women are employed do not receive any help from the state. That state must make its contribution and I say only when the state joins the unions and certain state institutions can we change something. Finally, we propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia develop an independent project to evaluate the effects of gender equality policy as well as the actions and interconnection of all gender equality mechanisms in the Republic of Croatia. Only then could we begin to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88294	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88295	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate and colleague and fellow MPs. So after the Ombudsman gave us a report and informed us about the violation of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, after the Ombudsman informed us about the violation of the rights of children in front of us, the Report of the Advocate General for Gender Equality which is tasked with monitoring the implementation of laws and other rules concerning gender equality, to consider cases of discrimination against individuals or groups of individuals committed by the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and other bodies with public authority, employees of those bodies, and other legal and physical persons. Gender equality is the fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on Gender Equality defines and regulates the way to protect against discrimination based on sex and the mechanism of creating equal opportunities for women and men. If it wasn't for the independent body that submitted this report, we would probably point to discrimination, but we wouldn't have suspected evidence based on verified and investigated cases. And this report needs to be seriously considered and sought out solutions to protect the most vulnerable groups, and they are clearly defined. Most complaints come from employment and work, domestic violence and parental care. The number of complaints relating to employment and labour discrimination is worrying. The Ombudsman's report says that complaints relating to violations of labour rights are increasingly coming. Both the report obliges us to open a debate in this House on the status, namely the protection of workers or workers who are increasingly exposed to the chican of their employers. It is common today that workers and workers do not have working time, that they are prevented from using annual vacations, that there are no days of a week's vacation, that the working conditions are unbearable, that they are often not paid for, and that when paid for, a small part is paid legally, and that part is paid for the ministry, pension and health insurance, and the rest of the part in cash is not paid for, and that part is not paid for. The consequences of such increasingly frequent payments will be felt by workers when they retire, and the state budget feels it already today. In the report before us, the Ombudsman points to the alarming number of complaints filed by most women, and concerns gender-based harassment, sexual harassment at work, violation of the right to the protection of motherhood, discrimination against employment conditions, including criteria and conditions for selecting job candidates, discrimination against access to all types of professional training, discrimination against employment and work conditions, all labour rights and work-based. Discrimination against pay equality and so on and so on. Analyzing the complaints lodged, which have been established as the basis, it is not possible to ask ourselves: So what kind of society do we live in? Do we live in a society where man has become the most worthless slave? On the one hand, the law protects a man and practice turns him into cheap expendable material. What is particularly disturbing is the fact that discrimination in the field of employment and labour and discrimination on the basis of other criteria and, inter alia, marital status is present in both the public and private sectors. Even speakers today who speak on behalf of certain persons and certain bodies make discrimination based on marital status. However, those on whose behalf the speakers spoke did nothing to sanction such inappropriate advances. Even more so, they address the president of the party to whom the person to whom the discrimination committed with an apology indicates a level of consciousness belongs. So consciousness is also the one whose name the spokesman says is the person owned by the party president, so if he apologizes to the party president, then it's a personal apology. What does that mean? This means that the heads of state also encourage discrimination, i.e. do not sanction such discrimination. The public sector should be an example of justice and justice. He'd have to be focused on the general good of a man who doesn't achieve any form of discrimination. If the public sector does not implement laws in a spirit in which they have been adopted, the Law on Gender Equality and, in order to achieve certain higher goals, it cannot be expected that the privateer will act differently. It is an obligation of the state to secure mechanisms, but also their effective function to protect the right of man against all threats he is exposed to today. In addition to open discrimination in Croatia, there is present and hidden discrimination which is particularly seen in the area of violation of the right to the protection of motherhood. Today, employers do not want pregnant women and mothers with children and are therefore exposed to treatment that temporarily or permanently excludes them from the world of work. As advocates, we too received letters and requests from young women who were regularly received for a period of time in case of pregnancy at the end of a certain period of time at which the employers received them became unnecessarily unnecessary. They were fired. We're now being reported by the D.A.'s attorney. We couldn't help these young women, and neither could the lawyer, because it gives the employer the right to the law. But if we are faced with a clear abuse of the legislator’s intention, is it not time to consider changing the law to protect those who contribute to the survival of society? All of our best strategies and policies are in vain if we leave the young without protection. If we expose them to risks of material and existential uncertainty and no maternity leave will help them. Realising that young women are unsolicited in the status of employees indefinitely was the reason for showing incompleteness and lack of a policy that would rely on a three-year maternity leave for mothers. By law, society gives the mother the right to three years' leave of work but cannot protect her to stay in the world of work and can not even protect those mothers who are constantly employed so that the employer, after returning from maternity leave, does not assign them to others as a rule of less paid jobs and remote jobs. The conclusion is that the woman, especially the mother, is discriminated against. We will also confirm this by accepting this report, but this did not solve the problem that apparently exists. The labour law protects motherhood and parenting, however, the law of day rights are being violated and the judicial authority that should be in the service of protection and the realisation of citizens' rights is slow, trom and ineffective. The lawyer says complaints concerning the judiciary are not in her jurisdiction. That's right. But they are in the jurisdiction of this House, and for this reason it could be repeated in full by the debate, which was conducted according to a report by the occupier. However, the debate itself will not lead to a solution unless there is a political will for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to undertake concrete measures to remove the legal uncertainty of citizens and establish the functioning of the rule of law. Without the functioning of the rule of law, we will not be able to prevent discrimination against individuals and individual groups of citizens for whom the Ombudsman has clearly found that they have been discriminated against. If we analyze the structure of over 300 thousand unemployed, we'll see that women are represented by about 60%. We have already concluded that the employer is an unwanted young woman, but women are also undesirable over 45 years of age. A significant part of them is single mothers. This part of the population can only be introduced into the world of work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would encourage their employment. The 2002 Employment Encouragement Programme has led to shifts in such a way that 37,000 950 women are employed on the basis of them. Of course, these are not satisfactory results, but these programmes were stopped when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in August 2005 to suspend the implementation of the 2002 Employment Promotion Programme. Facing this serious problem, the Ombudsman proposes measures that we at the Croatian Peasant Party's Club fully support. The introduction of targeted single mothers programmes that are at greater risk not only of unemployment but also of social exclusion and the subsidisation of women over 45 years of age who lost their jobs during the transition process as a technological surplus would significantly mitigate the integrity of this risk group. The figures are increasing compared to 2005 and they are scary and more so if we accept the fact that we live in a family violence that is considered a family disgrace that should be kept as a family secret at all costs. The most common abusers are husbands, but rarely as violent men appear and children are especially silent. At times, we remain horrified by newspaper inscriptions that expose harassment and violence against older and powerless parents. Such cases are largely not reported because institutions that should provide protection for victims of violence are incomprehensiblely far away. Of course, assistance to this group should be given to local self-government units and to inform police and competent welfare centres about the observed violence. How effective this would be for us, because in this area, the D.A. noticed the work gaps and the police and the centres. This is best discussed in individual cases. The victims of violence were not protected during the long exposure to domestic violence. In some cases, after years of silence, the victim was killed. Of course we need to talk about the position of women in the country. We're wondering if a woman in the country is being discriminated against. Yeah. A woman in the country is being discriminated against. First of all, it's because she's a woman. And on the other hand, because he lives and lives in the country. Well, for example, when a woman from the village comes to the employer, with the usual questions about whether she is married, how many children she has, how many children are, etc. and where do you live? And then to learn that he lives 40 kilometers away from the place of work, of course he's losing his job, because the employer doesn't want to bear the cost of employment. Furthermore, we have a category of women in the country who are officially unemployed, not in working status, but are very busy in their family economy, in their family economy. However, these women do not have the same rights in the case of adoption as foster parents in a working relationship. They also do not have the same rights as mothers in working relationships, and they have children with developmental difficulties. What we managed to do in 2002, which was at least on a maternity leave of 6 months, that is, equalized an unemployed mother for a year. We proposed that we from the Croatian Peasant Party club law that would equalise a foster mother who usually lives in the country with an adoptive woman who is in a working relationship. But the parliamentary majority rejected the law. We suggested the same thing in the case of a mother who has a child with developmental difficulties. We wanted to equate a mother who has such problems in the country and who is not officially in a working relationship but is very busy in her family economy. Unfortunately, however, the parliamentary majority rejected it. Do we fellow MPs at the Croatian Parliament also discriminate. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support this report. In particular, the part of the Ombudsman’s conclusion containing the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88296	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88297	I only have one small correction from my colleague Lalić when she talked about discrimination against pregnant women and when she said that discrimination was actually covered up. Actually, I don't think that's true. It would be true to say that public unequivocal discrimination is open at work when it comes to pregnant women, when it comes to their employment, when it comes to signing labour contracts. It's open discrimination for which in this government there is not enough desire, political will, let's call it how we want this problem to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88298	Thank you very much. Mr. Antun Kapraljevic on behalf of the HNS club. And at 12 and 50, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party accepts the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, and in any case we will support it. We in Croatia have done a lot on gender equality. We have the Gender Equality Office. We have a law on gender equality. We have a lawyer for gender equality. But we also have her report that says we've done a lot about the law and the institutions, but we're not very good at implementation. That's it. This shows that many things in the state don't work. You can see far more in life than you can see in this report. But I'd point to some of them that are both prominent and entrenched here, which is primarily employment. Discrimination in employment, discrimination in employment against sex. So I'd start with discrimination in the field of work and employment. The D.A. points out that the largest number of these applications comes anonymously, which in any case doesn't have to be surprising. We all know, and we all know at least one of the merchants who works in one of the big trade chains and we know how they work, how they work, under what conditions they pay for. And these things that have been pointed out here to complain about working conditions, hygienic technical protection, the illegal introduction of overtime, the non-payment of overtime, work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Those things we can see, hear from those people who work there. And not to mention the working conditions when you see these employees weigh those crates, carrying various different sugar bags, with this one, these are the conditions that many of us men would have a hard time putting up with. And women do that, and that's what I'm going to do here. I'm going to say the folk term for the Church. And what's the biggest problem when that church gets a piece of that church that employers have to pay off, then they still have to pay back. And we expect those women who work under such conditions to suffer these conditions because they have to endure them because they have no other choice but to expect these women to complain. That's impossible. Because at least 20, 30, 50, or I don't know how many others that would be very happy to come and work under such conditions. And so if we don't do something like the state, and I call it not only the state but also the unions, if the unions don't make collective agreements, if they don't define under what conditions they're going to work in trade, catering, in the textile industry where women work the most, women will still keep quiet, and we're going to have the same number of these requests to the attorney general, and we're going to think that it's very good in the country until we look at how they really live and how they really work. So I call on the unions, I have called and when we have discussed Sunday's work, I call on them and now to do everything possible to sign a collective agreement, and then the minister, if they say they won't all sign, has the right after more than 50% of the signatures in a particular dam to make a provision to apply to everything and therefore I call on the unions to start something and to go to protect those who should be protected. And as for the National Employment Action Plan itself in 2002, a programme was adopted to encourage employment, so it was put out of force in August 2005, and then a new employment action plan was adopted and now the question of what was done under this action plan is not seen from the report, and the other reports we received here are impossible to see how many women were self-employed and how many women were employed because we have no such data anywhere. And what my colleague Ljubica Lalić was saying about women who used to work in some big combinations whether they were textiles, whether they were agricultural or not, I don't know which other combinations that went to the street by tycoonisation or the wrong way to run those companies went to the street, what about these women living in the country, who are over 40 years old, who in some suburban settlements or in the country, these women have no chance. They absolutely can't do anything without the state, and if the state doesn't come with some kind of program, projects, to hire those women, we know that our villages will fall further, and especially the female population that is far more in these villages because we know that women live longer, I don't mind, but they live longer and longer they suffer that misery and indifference in the country, and without the state, it's impossible. And as the state refers to employment, it states that of the 667 cases in which the Ombudsman sent warnings 142 refer to state authorities, 320 to local self-government authorities, 205 to legal and physical persons, and if the relationship between state and local self-government is accompanied by legal and physical persons, then it says that neither we, nor those employed in state institutions, in local self-government know or do not want to implement the Law on Gender Equality, and who should be first if not the bodies that are in the system to say so. And as for women on the labour market, we know that more than 60% of them are looking for work, we know that the pay gap, that they're underpaid, means they have 19.7% less wages than men and I repeat them without any action, without the state only with warnings, recommendations or counsel's opinions, we're certainly never going to fix that. I appreciate her work, I appreciate the work of all the defenders who protect any minority, I appreciate their efforts to fix it, but it's impossible to give warnings, recommendations and opinions. I suggest the same as we have proposed for the attorney general to strengthen the influence of all the attorneys, not only of the attorney general, but also of the lawyers for gender equality, as well as of the lawyers for the children, as well as of all the other attorneys we will set up. And now to come to the biggest thing, actually the biggest problem I see in all the reports so far, even in this one, which is domestic violence. There are even fewer applications, normally because there is also a danger of reporting far greater, there is a question of work in employment, and here as far as we can see there can be a question of life and it is normal for women to be afraid and it is normal to fear that violence in the family is reported, and we know that it is very much. We all met in our lives, we weren't violent, some were, some weren't, but we who hadn't met up with such things on the street and saw how certain men treated women, but also how certain women treated men. It is especially difficult to see and hear when, through the media, messages are sent from some people that violence should be endured, that violence should suffer and suffer to infinity and try to hide that violence from itself. It's easy to tell those who don't experience such violence, but those who are experiencing violence I think we should report to every bully anyway, and institutions should do their job. How does that work right now? The lawyer points out that the police are doing their job in due time, and it comes to all applications, and that's good, but the attorney also points out that I'm missing education in the police department, that they're not familiar with the Law on Gender Equality, that they're not familiar with the protocol on conduct and that there are major gaps only out of ignorance, so I suggest, I call on members of the Police to train in some way to respect the law and protocol on conduct. And that also applies to welfare centres where there are a large number of failures, a large number of sloppy shops, ignorances, where systematic training should also be carried out in order to comply with the law and to do as is necessary, as the law requires, as the protocol requires. And now to touch the part that fellow Sobol mentioned, which is women in politics. We've got elections coming up, and there's gonna be pressure, demand, I'm talking pressure in the quotes, that there's at least 40% of women on the lists, and we're even making such conclusions that there's 40% of women on the lists. I agree. We can bring 50%. But we must also take care of the specificities of individual parties. Some parties do not have 5% of women in their membership, some parties have 32% as we do in our county. And in any case, we'll keep that principle that we have in our membership on the lists. I'm not sure, and I can't guarantee that 40% of the women will be represented on the lists. But I'm sure we'll keep that proportional membership on the lists. And why aren't there women in politics? They're not there for a few reasons. The first is financial independence. Women depend on husbands, depend on their salaries, most of them... I'm not talking about the ones that work, I'm talking about the ones that don't work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm telling those in that one, and that's another reason why the traditional understanding of a woman represented in the country, that a woman is tied to a stove. Such traditional understanding of women remains represented in many parts of Croatia, we admitted it or not admitted it. And the third thing why women don't go into politics, it's their desire to make the family coherent and compact, which in us men is completely different. We're still a little more playful. Well, that's why we're more into politics. And will women also have the courage to enter politics? They want the moment they're financially independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88300	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Mrs Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88301	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague! You listed 667 cases of complaints related to the employment of women or injuries Advert and 142 in 2006. [[/Advertise.]] It does not refer to 2006, 142 cases related to state authorities' bodies, but has been going on since 2000. I can't and hasn't been persuaded by my attorney for gender equality on the statistical data of this report. She would have assured me that before this report she had explained the situation in the house she was running. Then I would have discussed this report more carefully and more responsibly. So it's always about who runs the house, that's the house the first man is. As for women tied to the stove. Thank God that in Croatia everything can be changed by law, but cannot be tradition, dignity and responsibility. There are women tied to the stove, they're rich, they have real husbands, they don't have to work, and they're at home to be good mothers, good women, and good foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88302	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88303	And it is not our fault that such a situation today related to another part of the sex is not as noble as it once was.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88304	Thank you for the third time. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88305	Well, here, only by agreeing mainly with what counterpart Kapraljevic said, he did say one inaccuracy or perhaps something that generates further stereotypes that women to maintain a coherent family stay at home. There is no coherent family without partner relations and where men and women do not participate equally in family, private life which is then both a guarantee of beginning and equality in public and political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88306	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct a colleague who says that men are more playful and that's why they're more in politics. That's the wrong thing to do. I suppose you know that the Law on Gender Equality is not respected and that women do not have equal opportunities to exercise their rights, but that women have the right to decide whether to enter that policy or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88308	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I corrected an incorrect quote when Mr. Kapraljevic spoke of equality, so he couldn't compare men and women, and he said that as ladies or ladies and women in the country. Well, I don't see any difference. For example. My mom lives in a village. There are five sons and a sixth man's dad in the house, and she was in charge of the house. That's it. So, we did everything, but she was being listened to. Therefore, do not make the difference between the lady, the woman in the village and the women in the city. The woman is a woman, was she in Zagreb or in my village... It's identical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88310	Thank you very much. Let's go, gentlemen. It is up to the club HSP and Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88311	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General! So look, on behalf of the HSP Club, the first thing we want to say is that we will take this report to the knowledge because we expected that there will be far greater shifts than those shown in this report. The first thing that we think and hold is that it is not good that to this day the problem that exists in the Office for Gender Equality has not been solved, and we also have the meaning of this inspection that has been carried out by the Central State Administration Office, which says that there are certain difficulties affecting human relations, which is why you have been seriously violated, and if you have watched further this part of the report, it is visible that the situation in this office is not good, and then as soon as the office deals with itself, it is automatically less than the results of what the office as such should achieve. Once again it is important and we ask that these relations finally be resolved in the office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. We also advocate that we talk specifically about all the problems and the name and last name of the problems that arise in this report regarding discrimination. Let's just say, let's just take a question from our fellow Member of Parliament, Ruža Tomasic, who had both representative and civic courage to show off drug dealers and go into that fight. And we know that for the second time, she's threatened at the cost of her life. Interestingly, neither the Gender Equality Advocate found herself present in that part, nor have the various associations that have also not found themselves present and provide support or any of these factors that arise in all sorts of situations. And we had, say, another harmless case that can't be compared at all, the case of three colleagues from the Parliament, as the case was called "three graces" that allegedly were the subject of the processing of secret services and everything, all the media were full and the situation was not comparable at all. It's not a comparable situation at all, and now I wonder if we have different and double standards as well. We got 'em. So let's be honest, why didn't you call the D.A. in the case of Mrs. Ruza Tomasic? Her life and her family are in danger. Why haven't the other colleagues called? However, some colleagues have started to counter media manipulations, so that's what the HSP needs for a pre-election campaign. We don't need this for a pre-election campaign and normally no one would put their family and everyone else on account of such situations as Mrs Ruža Tomasic. Let's show on this and similar other examples of our will, our effectiveness to solve all these problems and let's not talk there are some, there are some employers, there are anonymous people. They're not anonymous people, they're people with names and names. All the people who have a name and a last name and let's go this way to solve Mrs. Ruža Tomasic's case and other similar cases, and then we'll make an important move and then normally all those who address the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality will more believe in the possibility and action, and especially if they solve these relations themselves who are not good at the office itself. Then an important move will be made. This is about discrimination in labour and employment, and it is interesting that those who passed the Labour Law in 2003, which reduced the rights of those who are today said to be discriminated against. So, especially when it comes to employment for a certain period of time and all other machinations that employers apply to women's sexes continue. So why? Let's get the strength and change that Labour Act. We at the HSP club have given changes and supplements four times to protect birth, to protect pregnant women, to protect people over 45 years of age, to protect whistles. Unfortunately, we had only some of the support in all these actions and we also suggested that it might first be on the set if there were, that after that the working relationship was indefinitely. Because as long as we have such reports to speak to each other, some and normally that no one will report whose rights have been violated in that section because if they apply to the State Inspectorate or to others, they will be in a position to remain without and without the employment they have, they will receive a regular or extraordinary notice of employment. And we know ourselves what our situation is, that 60% of the State Inspector's misappropriations in a misdemeanor procedure go out of date, and even the inspectors themselves do not have powers that can effectively act or protect the rights of all those whose rights are denied. Let's talk openly about how many employers put cameras and places they shouldn't have cameras. So, even in the bathroom, everywhere else, so the employees are under surveillance all day. It's abuses and violations. But we don't have any concrete possibilities of measures, you didn't say what employers were. We all know there's a lot of these employers, so at least let's say names, let's not say some of them because we didn't do anything about it. So at least let us name those who create such problems unlike those who behave in accordance with Croatian laws, which are an example of successful, good employers, which as such we should appreciate and protect from this other group. So here's what you see. It's just one of the reasons why we take this report to our knowledge. And again, I call on all of us to go into solving but concrete things with concrete proposals for changes and additions. Because these conclusions are good but they're totally general when we know what legal regulations are, what are the legal inability of an inspection for action and for everything else. And finally, we ask both the government and everyone else to solve this issue of relations in the Office of the Public Lawyers for Gender Equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88312	Thank you. The correction of Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88313	Well, I want to make it right, it could be a lot of things, but I'd only like to do it in this part. When his colleague Kovacevic spoke about the Labour and Labour Problems Act for a certain period of time and said it was actually the source of current discrimination when it comes to pregnant women because of changes in the contract, etc. Please, dear colleague Kovacevic, please read exactly what the Labour Act says and what it says with a provision when a contract is concluded at a certain time and as a rule which contract is concluded. As a rule, the problem is that those who should exercise control and impose sanctions and take measures which are State inspectorate, judicial authorities, government, GSV or I don't know who does. And that's the problem. And come on, let's try talking about the provisions of certain laws that are not respected and not implemented, and there's no sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88314	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88315	Well, the esteemed Mr. Vice President has violated Article 209. I said that the Labour Act was passed in 2003 and that they were reduced legal protection and what the inspector could do to all workers. Read it, obviously you didn't read it when you adopted it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88316	This is exactly the 209th article on how to get the word and so on. Let's move on, Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88317	... The incorrect quote by Mr Kovacevic, who claimed that three graces from this House were given public attention when they spoke about the work of secret services and that there was an apparent gender inequality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Kovacevic, you could have helped us and Mrs. Ruzi Tomasic if you hadn't stopped behind secret services because secret services were supposed to do the job not to deal with MPs but rather to deal with organised crime that threatens Mrs. Ruži Tomasic. And as for what I was saying, tell me which anonymous citizen writes an anonymous application and says, "By the knowledge of POA" [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88318	Thank you very much. Now we're done discussing clubs. I propose that we begin the individual debate at 3:00 and that the first Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic is the first. Thank you. Have a nice day. Ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing the session. We move to an individual debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2006. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This report has been made truly analytically and studioically, perhaps more comprehensively than ever before and there is no doubt that I, like the vast majority, accept it. I think the time has matured with us that there should be no doubt that it is in the interests of the state and the whole of our society that the values of women and their sense of justice together with all its qualities and virtues are integrated into political, social, general public life. In Article 5, to remember the Law on Gender Equality, we also have a definition, so gender equality is defined as a sign that men and women are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status and equal opportunities. But is that so? It is a general fact, and we see it from the very report that after this great one I would say a significant step forward when this law was passed that it has been a long time, that the time has matured and the conditions for this law to suffer certain supplements and changes to its own in this part of sanctioning those who do not behave according to this definition of equality between men and women, their obligations and their rights. The recent decision of the Constitutional Court has sparked great public interest above all in the women's part of our population, citizens. However, such a decision is to welcome. That's the kind of decision he makes, but he's bound by it. It also binds the principle that we started fighting for gender equality at the end of the 1990s, on our own after 2000, which many associations dealing with these issues took as their own password, as a female network and others, let us change the face of politics and let women's voices also be heard. This also obligates us all to our own women MPs in the Croatian Parliament to notice all forms of direct or indirect discrimination, to get up in defense of equality and destruction of stereotypes wherever they are, not only in conduct but above all and in laws. The obligation is first of all to open up further paths to other women because we are all sitting here thanks to famous and unknown women who daily through history walked forward, who pushed that wheel of equality forward. And that's why neither one of us has the right, no matter what political options they come from, to say just that, that it's women's right to choose whether to be employed or not. Have you ever heard of a man having the right to choose to be employed or not? Men and women have, in the end, taught us that definition, which is why I repeated it, precisely all the obligations and rights of private and social life. Many of us will say that this is not easy to achieve, how to persuade a man or force him to participate in private life, in family life? Well, it's necessary, first of all, for the sake of the children. Here, for the beginning of one norm that should not be resisted. It is in many countries that are socially sensitive, which have achieved almost entirely ideal gender equality in the political and public life of women, that a man is obliged to be on maternity leave. This is the first step in other laws or amending laws that will then really bring women and men into a more equal position. If we look at the segments a little bit what it looks like and then we'll see in general that women are still a big step, there's no doubt about all of this lately, but women are still showing up at one, anywhere and in almost all segments, and often in the media in one offensive way, in one one one dimensional way, where a sexualised female body is used as a means for different purposes, primarily in terms of profit. And that's something that's inadmissible. However, if we look at our education policy a little bit, there has not been such a shift in education as we expected. First of all, if we analyze a little national policy to promote gender equality from 2001 to 2005, and what women's initiatives and women's associations have been looking for, as well as individual representatives and us from the SDP club, that the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports fulfil their programming tasks from the National Policy 2001-2005 concerning changes in textbooks both content and visually and visually, respectively, in art equipment. It must be acknowledged that great progress has been made in relation to what happened by 2000, but in any case it is still not enough. Similarly, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been deafened to include education and awareness-raising in HNOS on promoting gender equality as a single commitment rather than as a popular and electoral subject. It is equally incomprehensible because many countries, or almost all advanced countries and Europe, as well as the transatlantic countries, have their own educational, higher education system involved in study, women's study. This ministry, headed by Minister Primorac, has repeatedly refused to do so. However, there is no reason. Therefore, this whole debate of ours has often been happening for years to discuss the report, there are discussions that determine more or less shifts, but without requests, without certain engagements, very concrete especially here and the House of Law that such a situation is already being established, to change. Therefore, our first task here is not only to find and complain, because as Krleža says, it is not worthy of any woman, let alone any nation, especially her female part, and in this sense very concrete things that have already been articulated in the public through the Committee on Gender Equality, through certain government associations dealing with this issue. But here, more concrete shifts in this sense, what we really really need to do, can be done and can be finely linked to this normative that we already have and there's no reason to reject it if we really want to make real changes. However, what is particularly worrying is the position of women in the labour market. Here, yesterday, the Business Log published an amazing fact that among the unemployed there are record 61.2% of women. So unemployment, injustice, elimination are primarily female. The share of unemployed women in the registered employment structure has been steadily increasing, so all these past years, to reach a record 61.2% in this quarter, today and this year. Against women in April this year, unemployed men were and still a burning problem for our Croatian state 38.8%. Here, many colleagues have talked about exactly what happens to women when they seek work, which they are all faced with. So on the one hand, we have a society that glorifies the mother, the woman, her role, the biological role, and instead of being her advantage she unfortunately sees in life, you'll all agree, that precisely the result, biology is the result or cause of her inequality. And that would be something we're all aware of to change. The measures implemented by the Croatian Employment Service should be welcomed to co-finance long-term unemployed women and women over 45 years of age. And that is one commendable programme, however, we see that in practice, given what is required of paperwork so that employers are absolutely here and those who would like to do so are demoted and simply not getting the results at all. And that's exactly what women's unemployment analysis specifically and prominently points out. Here, my colleague Lalić spoke of a special disqualification of women's inequality in the country, that's true, but let's not fool ourselves. There are inequalities not only in women in the country but in women who are involved in scientific research. Therefore, the greater its scale and the more education it has not eliminated its expertise or the possibility of advancement. Here's a perhaps a visual example of a 30-year-old judge who's an honorary student who's making the standard envious. And what happened to her, just because she dared to compete, competed to be the head of a particular judicial body disqualified in her expertise, and even worse injured in her intimacy as a woman. These are things that can't and can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88321	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mrs. Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, the colleague spoke about the work and employment of women, or the problems women face in the labour market, discrimination, mobbing, unemployment, etc. And I agree that it's really one big problem that all of us women have to talk about in all the fields, in all the places where we find ourselves talking and pushing for these problems to be as small as possible. However, the fact is that in this report, the Advocate General for Gender Equality is only 193 complaints from citizens and citizens that I find too little to deal with the problems that we are all talking about here on behalf of clubs and individual debates. So I wonder what's causing it, why so few complaints are citizens and citizens. Perhaps in part because it is a weak affirmation or insufficient affirmation of the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality in the public, perhaps in part and because the office's powers are not only jurisdiction but also the attorney's powers are not sufficiently articulate and they cannot give the effects that are expected of them and therefore may not be so many complaints because they neither expect that something could be solved which is not good because problems should always be spoken of in all cases, ask for help from all the structures and from all those in charge to respond to these complaints. Therefore, I accept this report from the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality, but I do not think that sufficient numbers, are not sufficiently affirmed and sufficiently publicised, that this office should be much more present and should be imposed and that citizens and citizens may, at any moment, know where to turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88323	Thank you very much. Answer by Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88324	Well, maybe it's hard to object to what you're saying. I also advocate greater powers, or the possibility of changing those things that the attorney and her office are paying attention to. There is also a great role here for the Government's Office for Gender Equality, and therefore I think that this is exactly where the government's will is manifested as much as this body that corresponds to the Croatian Assembly will respect and push forward. However, women are in such a position that some problems that are so present are not considered necessary because they are happy to work at all to affirm them. There's a small number of women who complain about sexual harassment at work because they're happy to do anything. Well, that's just as much as a worker hesitates to ask for any right because it's too weak than some in the state service who think they should do their basic job for what they're paid for, that it's some kind of mobbing. So you have such absurd situations, but then they can't become a behavioral matrix for all of it, although what happens on the other hand is as terrible as it is in the trade chains where it's just exploiting itself to the limit of female labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88325	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Jagoda Martic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88326	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that, over the past period, the Ombudsman for gender equality managed to impose the general public as a relevant factor recognised in the sphere of protection and promotion of equal opportunities for women and men, as seen in this report. An increased number of complaints points to greater awareness of citizens and citizens regarding the possibility of seeking to protect their rights in the field of gender equality, labour and employment and protection against domestic violence, and greater information on whom they can address for help in seeking protection or assistance in the exercise of their rights. These are in any case good and encouraging trends but I also agree with those who have warned that the Advocate's Office should actually have far greater powers and that, and that then her work and commitment to everything in her jurisdiction would have far better results. Because, as is the case with this report on the work of the Ombudsman, we can conclude that the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality continue to apply to a satisfactory extent even though the implementation of certain provisions has led to a shift in the best. For example, unlike the 2005 work report, in 2006, a large number of state bodies, legal entities with public authority and legal persons in the predominantly state or unit of local and regional government finally met the legal obligation to adopt action plans to promote and establish gender equality. Why do I say it at last? So because, under the Law on Gender Equality, it was their obligation to do so by 30 June 2004. Here, at the end of 2006, we have a situation that most state bodies have fulfilled their legal obligation. Even though we're a year and a half late, we won't be petty. The important thing is to move. That's exactly what we were talking about earlier about the lawyer's influence. So on the existence, how important is the existence of political will, or perhaps even better, awareness of the real importance of embezzling basic gender definitions in all segments of our society, and this is, of course, the very political bodies that should actually implement the provisions of the law. The area of employment and the position of women in the labour market as we have already had many opportunities to hear today is certainly one of the most sensitive issues. Despite all the legal regulations, solutions, national policies, Millennium goals and accepted international conventions in Croatia at the work of discrimination against women on the labour market at the time of employment, at the time of losing their jobs, at the time of pay, women tend to work, easier to lose their jobs. They're less paid for the same jobs. The share of women in the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia here we had the opportunity to hear it reached finally and reached the number... 61%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Men in Croatia on average have 19.4% higher salary than women. Women are more often asked questions about family status when they are employed. The results of the web portal research My work shows that when it comes to men as if the decision to start a family is an additional confirmation that they are mature and responsible. In contrast, for women who are employed, it will be a permanent source of deconcentration. They won't be able to devote enough to their work. When they become mothers, they won't be able to work overtime. There are more frequent illnesses and so on. In one word, women to employers are not a desirable workforce. The biggest problem with work and employment is the problems of pregnant women and mothers, for example, when hiring women, questions about possible pregnancy, number of children and the like, and if a woman is employed by the basis of a contract of work for a certain period of time in case of pregnancy, the contract is not extended and the woman is out of work. Similarly, after the employer finds out that women are pregnant, she faces pressures and oppressions or by creating an enemy working environment that forces her to sign a new contract for a certain period of time during which the work relationship ceases. After returning from maternity leave, of course, if she is lucky that she has not been fired before, often the wife welcomes a second job. It is not necessary to mention that it is usually a non-responsible job. So either they're bad working conditions, worse pay, and so on. Some women who faced violations of their rights turned to the lawyers for gender equality to ask for help. Unfortunately, however, a number of women give up because, according to the report, fear of potential loss of work is evident from women’s obstacles to actively protecting their rights. It has also been observed and concerned that this would also mean a lengthy court procedure because the judiciary is experiencing slow and ineffective and is concerned about the costs of such proceedings. As a result, the Law on Free Legal Assistance should be adopted as soon as possible so that all those who are in any way threatened and violated their rights can be more easily protected. In addition, the State Inspectorate should strengthen financially and humanely in order to be able to meet all those requirements effectively and spotably in cases of violations of labour and employment rights. When we discussed national policy in this assembly to promote gender equality, we of the SDP Club pointed out that the measures envisaged for the achievement of equal opportunities for women in the labour market will not be sufficient to reduce women's high unemployment rates as well as strong vertical and horizontal segregation and the prevailing of women in less paid sectors. I therefore agree with the Ombudsman's proposal that it is necessary to adopt additional measures and policies at local and regional level to increase women's employment significantly and improve their labour market status in the upcoming period. This should include, in particular, units of local and regional level which could significantly contribute to the resolution of this really big problem through different programmes. I also note that special attention should be paid to two groups of women who are particularly affected in these situations and are single mothers and women over the age of 45. In the national policy to promote gender equality in Chapter 5, the strategic framework for the implementation of gender equality policy and the action plan of action is also listed as one of the areas of gender-sensitive education with implementing measures involving the introduction of gender-sensitive education into the overall educational system, with the removal of gender stereotypes and curricula and programmes and systematic gender equality education for process holders at all levels of the system. The measures are foreseen for the period 2006 to 2010. This is an extremely important area because in the process of achieving full equality between women and men in all areas of life, it is extremely important to develop consciousness and develop existing stereotypes. Clearly, it is a large business but without a systematic approach to the education and education of young generations, and this from the smallest legs will not be a significant shift in changing the understanding of gender equality as the fundamental value of modern society. This is why it is not clear why the Committee on Health Education and Education in primary and secondary schools does not include representatives of institutional mechanisms for gender equality or experts from NGOs in the field of gender equality. I'm not going to get into the way this program is made. I think that's enough of the criticism we've received from the European Union. What I'm trying to say is that this is a programme that is only at the stage of production and that it does not involve experts in gender equality. What we can expect then is when the review of educational and educational content is approached with the aim of introducing gender-sensitive education and education into the entire education system. Finally, just a few sentences about one area where a significant shift was made to the better, which is to protect against violence against women or other victims of domestic violence. As noted in the report, significant progress has been seen in police action. Unfortunately, however, welfare centres have been found rarely to report their findings to the police according to the protocol. So, in the social care centre, in fact, this progress has not been seen, that is, the work of the social care centre is not very different from those in the previous periods, the inadequate treatment of victims of violence, the indistinguishability of perpetrators and victims of violence, and therefore, as a result, the reorganisation of the social care centre should be approached as soon as possible because I don't think that any positive developments have actually taken place in the prevention of violence. And in the end, I support the Attorney General's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88327	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Pearl Perman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. Among the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia is gender equality, which shows our commitment that the Republic of Croatia is among the democratic states that build their order with full recognition and promotion of equality between women and men as an unforgiving precondition for sustainable development. The lawyer's report on gender equality shows, unfortunately, and a number of real cases and various surveys show that women in Croatia are not even quite equal. It's hard to stop pessimism about this problem when we know that something slightly changes statistics. But the essence of the problem is constant for years, and the fact is that society and the system are basically carrying out declarative activities while actual procedures and results are far from satisfactory. Tragic cases whose outcomes can be traced in black chronicles indicate that the competent institutions have failed. The number of female victims of domestic violence indicates lack of prevention. The question arises as to why the worst must wait most often to react, and then, apart from the repression for the work done, the reaction no longer makes sense because the consequences are irreparable anyway. Would it not be cheaper for the state to act more effectively to protect the dignity and life of the victims than to spend valuable taxpayers' money on expensive repression? We have heard and repeated in this assembly many times in recent months that our prisons are full and that the conditions in them are practically impossible. Statistics and complaints show a particularly worrying increase in violence against women and children in the family. However, I am not convinced whether there is really an increase in violence or only a number of reported cases are encouraged by more effective application of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and a wider social and media campaign against this monster. Whatever it is, the fact is that domestic violence doesn't decrease, that's the worst part. Despite a large number of exposed and sanctioned domestic abusers, or abusers against women. Personally, I think the sanctions are too mild. Out of nearly 16 and a half thousand requests for police intervention, 3% ended without reporting, 93% of them being reported in a large number of cases due to antiquity ending without any consequences for the bully, and only 4% of the reports resulted in criminal charges. Unfortunately, we have no record of how many cases have been sanctioned by a judicial verdict. The authorities that make the decisions on sanctions are very often unwarranted favors for violent persons and are all trying to undertake under the common denominator of a random misunderstanding. A large number of undeclared cases are due to financial dependence on a bully's partner, and it is rare that both a bully and a victim of fines for disturbing public order and peace paid by a bully, and the unemployed victim cannot do so because he has no income and ends up in prison, except that the victim of domestic violence is also the victim of a society that should protect her. What really concerns are the failures in the work of the police and social care centres that Jagoda Martic mentioned earlier, so I would not further elaborate. However, with measures to improve the work of police and welfare centres in such cases, it is necessary to further sensitize society's attitudes towards violence against women through the media, and even more severe penalties for violent people who will be a clear message to potential bullies that our society does not tolerate such behaviour. In the debate on the report last year, I said that I was not convinced that the tightening of penalties for crimes that threaten gender equality, which primarily relate to domestic violence, rape, discrimination and similar to those foreseen by the latest amendments to the Penal Code, would indeed reduce the number of crimes against women. Reading this year's report seems that the penalties for these acts remain insufficiently severe. According to police administration data in the first eight months of last year, 255 interventions over domestic violence were more than 20% in the same period in 2005. That is why the City of Rijeka opened ten days ago a shelter for victims of violence with the capacity of ten people in which women will be able to stay for 6 months, have material assistance for housing, food and hygiene supplies, and will be used daily by psychologists and social worker from the Rijeka Family Protection Association, and in order for individual cases to have a more lasting effect, the mandatory six-month psycho-social treatment that has passed by 110 perpetrators of whom only one has been violent again. According to this systematic approach and the entire program City of Rijeka is the only one in Croatia. Since the recent psychosocial treatment in Rijeka, family thugs from the area of Violent Courts in Buzet and Ogulin are arriving. I must say that the City of Rijeka is fully financing this shelter, because a negative response has arrived at the request of the Resord Ministry with an explanation that existing capacities meet the established needs in the network, which is far from the truth, because there are less than 200 beds for victims of violence throughout Croatia. This also violates the Council of Europe guidelines, which say that 10,000 inhabitants must be provided with one place in the facilities for victims of domestic violence. Interesting and very indicative is the fact that of the total of 2 thousand 432 cases opened in 2006 only that out of so many, only 217 complaints are citizens which is less than 9%. This data suggests how many victims of violence still do not believe in the system, unfortunately for a reason, despite certain shifts in the last 4.5 years. Of these complaints, 60% refer to domestic violence, 35% to work and employment, and only 5% to other types of complaints. The area where women's rights are increasing, where women's rights are increasingly being violated is the area of employment and work. Not only do they have to ask them whether they are planning to become pregnant anytime soon, but in the case of the same employed woman, they have a great chance of losing their jobs and everything within the framework of the law. In this case, since a large number of employees are currently employed on a fixed-term contract, women are particularly threatened because, in the event of pregnancy, they lose their jobs regularly through the end of the contract. Pregnancy is a period when a woman is particularly sensitive and the last thing she needs is a quit. And here I mean not only the deterioration of the financial opportunities of the family concerned but also the particular danger to pregnant women's health. There are more and more of these cases where women even address for help and the media, hoping it can help them get their job back or at least warn them of the injustice they've done to them in some way. The report also sets out examples where the employer does not respect the provisions on the protection of motherhood and parenting, the Labour Act, after the return of the worker from maternity leave, the mobbing, the non-ensure of mandatory protection measures for work, the illegal setting of overtime, the increase of norms to impossible borders, the coercion of pre-prepared statements of inspection, etc. The state has once again proved to be the weaker, the protector of the weaker. Finally, this report lists a number of cases in which the Advocate General has made certain recommendations, instructions or warnings based on insight into the documentation in question, whether it concerns complaints against citizens, interventions of institutions, organisations or legal persons, whether it concerns observations or analyses of the Ombudsman himself. However, no final results of interventions, i.e. feedback on the implementation of the recommendation and possible follow-up in the event of non-compliance with it, are listed in a large number of specific cases. I think that by referring to a particular recommendation, and without concrete insight into its implementation and possible further steps in the event of non-implementation, it actually loses the meaning of the very existence of the Ombudsman institution. Therefore, although I support this report, I would recommend that, in future work for each individual case, we take this final step in order to have feedback on the effectiveness of the activities of the Ombudsman for gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88329	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88330	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Perman's usually speaking, says tragic cases say the institutions have failed, which is absolutely not true. Because just cases of violence have the priority of solving, police are dealing with such cases by emergency procedure, reacting. You could have listened to the interview with the director of the penitentiary, or the manager of the Remetec Penitentiary, who says there's no room for anyone but a domestic bully. And finally, you have to ask yourself why 90% of these cases are out-of-marriage partners. Almost every murder here is in that style. And you need to ask why there are so many mass murders in the West, and institutions work perfectly, according to yours, right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88331	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88332	Thank you. Well, here you go, colleague Perman. I'm in charge of the replica, and I'm glad you looked back on the case of opening a shelter in the city of Rijeka. And in fact, in some way, the refusal of the competent ministry to assist in the work of that new shelter, which, with a lot of trouble, is finally open. And I sincerely hope that the City of Rijeka will be able to endure financially on its own to maintain that shelter. In fact, sometimes it seems to me that we all forget the importance and role of these shelters. And we're always saying over and over again that we have too few places in those shelters, and when you need help from the state level, then in some cases it's being rejected. It is forgotten that this shelter opened in a city such as Rijeka will not only come to it by women and not only by women from the city of Rijeka, but also by all the surrounding municipalities and county, as well as neighbouring counties where such similar shelters do not exist. And unfortunately, existing capacities and what is intended to open in due time are far too small to receive all those women and their children who need shelter protection. This occasion should also be said that the government is in no way going into something called perhaps a special Law on labor and shelter financing. At the state level, then, we might also be able to resolve all of the situations that are now individual shelters that are being financed, which are barely surviving, and what is said are being forced to ask literally by the state to grant them the funds. And what is said and when they report to the competition then it's six months and more, and during that time these women and those children in those shelters if they need anything else to eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88333	Thank you. Mrs. Perman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88334	So here's to supplement this information about this shelter for victims of domestic violence. Namely, the City of Rijeka spent more than 400,000 kunas in the arrangement, and it plans to allocate 550,000 kuna annually so that the more complete programmes and needs of the users of the shelter can be fully financed, as I said the ministry unfortunately does not take part in the whole project in a way to help even expand the shelter. On the other hand, what I just said about late interventions, they unfortunately refer to those cases that ended in death. Later intervention unfortunately makes no sense because life is impossible to bring back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88335	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I think this is good, that it's good that we get a summary, so it's easier to handle 30 pages than I don't know a few hundred, and that's saving material, and one who's interested can go to both your sites and the club and find a full report. I think this is good practice. Secondly, this report is based on the Law on Gender Equality, and I would now ask that we actually draw attention to what this Law is based on, therefore, on the protection against discrimination, on the basis of sex and on mechanisms of creating equal opportunities. So these are some of the basics of which this report is also going to and from which the whole policy of gender equality policy is going to be implemented in this attorney's office. Now, be careful, if we go from these two assumptions that are clear and acceptable in themselves, to which no one in their right mind has anything to add or oppose, however, only to support them. Then we actually come into part of the report on labour discrimination and employment where examples are cited in the textile industry, about the problems of workers in textiles about overtime, about unhygienic conditions, violations of the right to the protection of motherhood, etc. But none of these I've listed actually belong to these two worse, you understand, because it's a violation of human rights in itself. So, it's not about the fact that these employees' rights have been violated in that industry because they're women, but the rights of everyone who works there or in any other industry have been violated. Therefore, it is not good that the working environment is polluted, that people work on Saturdays and Sundays regardless of whether they are male or female, whether they are here, whether they are there, therefore it is also known in itself. On the other hand, it says here that, in fact, for the same jobs that people do, that is, men and women do that there are no complaints in Croatia that they are not paid equally. For what reason? I don't know. I hope that there may be no big pay gap between men and women in Croatia, because I think that Croatian society is really both social and human and there is really little, and on the other hand in the advanced countries of the European Union even records the figure I think up to 15% that women are underpaid than men. So if that's the case, then it's safe to investigate whether we have it, but it's obvious that people don't complain, but who does? The unions are complaining. I mean, now I don't know how much there are in that case unions in the right sense and the best employees' lawyers in that part because I can't understand that the union can complain before they're gonna complain to someone who's individually, personally denied I don't know in my own right. On the other hand, I absolutely understand this remark of yours where you stated it, not because there are men complaining, but because of what it is. Why would it in the most "female" under quotes, the occupations of children's kindergartens have the advantage of the aunt. Now what would children have to do only with aunts, under quotes? You understand? So why wouldn't there be an open door for men and men, and why wouldn't they bring in, make their contribution, and why would they be discriminated against and inadmissible to that part of the job because they're men? That's completely understandable. Finally, in this part, I think finally, I'm not finished. I agree that the stereotype and prejudice as you say that women can't do all the jobs men can do, but at the same time it's unacceptable to endure, and under the pretext of equality in the proceedings against ordinary or other rights, and practice, because then gender equality will be every single one of itself, I would say the opposite. So we don't have to insist on it in a way that we actually produce damage or even be... Let's just say that if we were to behave like this, then I could just ask why the three women were here, the three ladies who ran the Office of Equality, the protection of children's rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You understand? I mean, it doesn't occur to me that children's rights are less protected because there were three ladies. Now may I ask why the three ladies were not one man? I don't think we should insist on that. On the other hand, when we talk about advertising, I fully understand that advertising in itself must be open to both men and women, but I cannot understand that it should also be vaccinated on. So we can't insist that one of the construction companies says I don't know one, one armyman or an army girl. You understand? Or one carpenter and a carpenter and we actually break into their office and ask them a question why they haven't announced that they need a carpenter and a carpenter, and not that much faster, that they don't have them at the construction site yet, so we can come up and attack to investigate that they haven't hired so many people there, I think. Therefore, we do not have to endure this because I fear that we will be the opposite of ourselves. On the other hand, here's a recent video I greet where the Dinamo football club invites pensioners and their grandchildren to come to football games. It could come to someone's mind, where they're retired and grandkids. I mean, I can't understand that it should do that now, because it turns out that when we find one example, then we can make the wrong conclusions based on it, and I don't think that's good. There was a colleague here earlier, our colleague Ingrid Antičević, in one part of his debate that someone else went to this globe, or in Croatia from another part of the world, then he could understand from her part of the debate that there is actually no integrated society in Croatia, the society of men and women, the society of the family, but he could understand that there are divided men and women, is stronger, rougher, unscrupulous, I don't know what kind of men do, nor do I know any violence against weaker, more powerful women. This is completely incorrect and unacceptable, and I don't really think it should be approached in this way because I repeat again we will not contribute to this essence on which this Law was based, which is gender equality in terms of protecting against discrimination based on sex and creating equal opportunities. Madam Attorney, I'd like to commend this part of where you're talking about encouraging employment. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not know that it was an annual plan to encourage employment last year which actually produced results, and here is the opportunity to praise the Split-Dalmatia County which hired the most women, because this relationship between men and women is unfortunately at the expense of women as we have already observed. In addition to your actions, I think our law that we recently passed, the Law on adult education, a very important law in order to actually correct these irregularities, or contribute to lifelong learning and promotion of employment for all, so regardless of gender, etc. When it comes to the representation of men and women in the ministries, I don't think there's any objection that anyone can have. So it turns out that in some largely male ministries, of course, they're mostly men, we're not going to persist again, so we're going to send military missions by force to meet some of our demands for gender and female equality, especially if there are no volunteers. So, of course, the Ministry of Police, the Ministry of Defence is more representative to men than this other one, but we have other ministries that actually weigh more women. That's not even bad for me. When it comes to the media, you're here and I totally agree with you, you've emphasized here that in fact, I might translate it in a very picturesque way in terms of human abuse, victims of violence. So if someone has already suffered violence or rape you understand, why rape him by photographing, publishing, you understand? So someone's already had an accident, so let's protect him. We can't go one step further and do more than he does, cause even greater harm to him and his family. In this work I absolutely agree and should take care of it. Finally, I support this report with a view to finding out, Croatia is indeed a country where there is no serious, systematic, I would say institutionalised Gender-based violations of rights and equal opportunities. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88337	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn, which he doesn't have, so he loses his right to argue on this point. Then, Mr. Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General. The introduction of the principle of equality and equality between women and men in all areas of life and work, in the public and private sphere, represents the fulfillment of one of the basic standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Gender equality and equality are not exclusively issues of social justice but are a necessary condition for the country's social and economic development, with particular emphasis on reducing poverty and improving the quality of life of all citizens of one society. The introduction of these principles into the legal, institutional and political frameworks in Croatia is based on the obligations arising from international documents, membership in international alliances and bodies as well as the principles of the protection of fundamental human rights contained in the Constitution. This Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Gender Equality on 14 July 2003. The law was adopted as part of Croatia's harmonisation efforts on the basis of obligations arising from the International Law and commitments made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Croatia and the European Union and its Member States. The starting point for the draft law was based, among other things, on the view that women account for 51.5% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia, and are sub-represented in politics and economy, which means that they are less employed and more professionally more advanced. In addition, women are often victims of sexual harassment, domestic violence, and other forms of gender discrimination. In addition to this law, the Parliament adopted a national policy to promote gender equality in the Republic of Croatia from 2001 to 2005, and during that period this law was passed in 2003. This policy builds on the foundations of the Beijing Platform for Action 1 and the final documents of the special session of the General Assembly Beijing plus 5 through positive actions wants to create conditions for women to fully exercise their rights. There are three areas to look at when we talk about gender equality and three in which women should be able to achieve full rights: family, working environment and society. The actual position of the woman in these areas confirms her as the bearer of the task, not as the object to which they are accomplished. In these few years since the law was passed, Croatia has made major progress in bringing gender equality mechanisms. But despite the fact that since the law was passed here, almost four years ago, what the National Policy for the Promotion of Gender Equality in the Republic of Croatia has also been passed, it is still true that women are often so I will say humiliated. They were humiliated and it is true as it is true and that in all systems business owners are mostly men. Gender equality and women endangerment are not because women cannot be bosses or are too repressed by doing various household chores. So on March 8, it wasn't like a riot against domestic affairs, it was like a rebellion of women against bribery and overwork on machines. But today, I think there's little to talk about big corporations opening shopping malls where the most visible humiliation of women is. It's enough to see in different "Getros", "Metros", "Bills", I don't know how they're not all called these malls, women who work on cash registers like machines without time to raise their eyes, often work under the watch of the camera, and every few minutes the names are called over the label if they're needed in another workplace. This is mentioned on the same time as it is mentioned that employers are asking whether or not a woman is in a different state, how many children she has, and each child is more of a employment problem. I wonder why it is necessary to make women stronger than they are and call it equality? Because physical women are always more fragile, regardless of their choice, they could be involved in any job. Today we are here in a debate that lasts almost all day we could also hear different percentages of this or that species that can be used or sometimes abused for some daily, political purposes. The percentage doesn't have to mean anything in real life, and unfortunately, how much women can achieve with 50% of women in Parliament whose average salary is then 7 times the salary of women in the textile industry, catering or self-service. Then we can ask the question, where is gender equality? This equality will certainly not be resolved either by sending women to the Peace Mission in Afghanistan or by flying in combat planes to countries in which the system works fairly, in which the woman is protected by laws whether she is single or has a family. If you're not underpaid, you don't need... how many women cook and how many women iron. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, Croatia is still not at that level. It is still a wartime country with a large number of PTSD-A sick people. And until the Americans have also solved their problems with Vietnam's fighters other than health care, no one's dealing with these problems with us. There are wide spaces that talk about women's vulnerability and gender equality, which are women in prison, raped women, young women who suffer from anorexia or bulimia, single mothers, which are still most often approached by sensationalists. But at the same time, human values seem to be very old-fashioned and are, in fact, time-consuming to be kind to one’s neighbor. ... President and Founder... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The company for selling men's clothing in the United States, the Men's Wealth House, recently surprised shareholders with the conclusion that it wasn't all about profit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of his ideas about what companies should rest on and his gross annual income of $1.4 billion was to lead the ministry. He believes that the rules were laid down thousands of years ago, as it did to others, which he would have wanted others to do today, both modern and applicable. All of this shows that life is much simpler when we look at it in reality and when we bring it down to simple rules of mutual love and mutual respect, and in terms of gender equality certainly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88339	Thank you very much. And as the last in Mrs. Gordana Sobol's discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I actually volunteered for an individual debate because I'm actually a little bit sorry that it's going to turn out, of course, it's totally the right of individual clubs, that they announced that this Attorney General's Report would take note. And when I look at the reports from the board on which we participated more or less as MPs and MPs, I think all the committees have accepted the attorney's report. So when I look at the government's opinion that she sent us about this report and about the Attorney General's Report for Children, or the Ombudsman, the practical opinion of the government is exactly the same. I would like to take another look at this particular issue of women in the labour market and consider why there are no complaints, whether women are sufficiently complaining or not, because it is therefore about gender equality. I don't think it's a lawyer on several occasions in a few places in this report actually made it very clear. No complaints about fear. Women who work in activities in which they are in most or where they are not in most cases when they work if they are exposed to any harassment, any harassment, if they are exposed to any questions, if it is obvious to them themselves that they are only discriminated because women are afraid to complain. Because if they complain about one of the rules behind that, it's either quit or at least a threat to quit, and that's the problem. Because after that, if he gets fired and starts seeking his right to harm his rights just because he's another sex then I guess we don't have to tell each other everything and in whatever way he's going to go through, I'm going back to what's right and what's in the Labour Act because it's basically the lawyer herself, as well as the other attorneys or attorneys in Croatia, recommend, warn, point out. I can't do anything else because the law tells them what I can. And that our State Inspector or that unions don't do their part, or that employers aren't aware enough and then not to say the actions that go through our courts is what seems to me to be our biggest problem and when it comes to the position of women and men in the labour market. I say a lot to my colleague Bagaric when he says why they should only be aunts in kindergartens. Well, of course, I would also like there to be a lot more men who will work and raise children in kindergartens, so not just in primary, secondary schools, etc. But you and I both know very well what we need here and, in these cases, we're looking forward to a lawyer's reaction because this man who appears to be such an ad is faced with horrible traditional stereotypes, so that I can say what's appropriate for a man to do in life or rather to work women. And that's what it seems to me that we'd all be here together and with the D.A. but together and impossible without the government, without the Government's Office for Gender Equality when we have that. So, if all of this is not included then unfortunately, I am afraid that this report as well as the report by the attorney general or the child's attorney will again have that famous sentence, either like the previous years or in the previous report, etc. It seems to me that there are some things we meet again and again. There's something else I'd like to point out, and I'd like to ask my colleague Caparin to do that, and I've already warned myself about it, and I want to say it out loud again today. Mobing or, as we say, Croatian psychological abuse in the workplace is not a question of women's human rights, because to say so is not a woman's question. Mobing is, therefore, the right to a healthy workplace, or ban on prevention and mental abuse, is actually a problem of overall working relationships whether it is men or women. And I really don't think that the problem with mobbing is how much it is, whether it was supposed to be in the prosecutor's report on gender equality. It's a question of some other reports. Otherwise, I guess there's going to be a chance that we can discuss it here. The Mobing Association has prepared a bill on the prevention of mental abuse at the workplace. I believe that through individual constituency committees we will also attend the thematic sessions, and then maybe it's lucky that the law comes and then here at the plenary session. But please, I repeat, the problem of mobbing is not a problem of gender equality, it's not a woman's question, it's a problem of working relationships. And so that's something to take care of and talk about that way. Here, I had a simple need to say this eventually in my own personal discussion. I believe this report will finally be accepted. But the following reports will probably be very similar for some of our next year, if we are definitely at the level of the highest institutions, at the level of our ministries, at the level of our offices, we do not have the actual political will to change, to change the situation. I'll just remind you when it comes to the position of women on the labour market... at that famous GSV session, I hope that at least some of you remember somewhere from March and April of 2004 which had just had on the agenda the problem of female employment, the problem of pregnant women, the problem of elderly women and very nice conclusions was then adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And everyone in this country was supposed to have work to do with it. Both ministries and trade unions and employers and NGOs and various offices, and I'm asking you that as far as I'm aware when I asked for a report practically nothing, nothing was achieved. And maybe that's actually the main question is whether what's being brought to the highest levels is, after that, whether or not anyone's taking care of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88341	Thank you very much. And the finish line? Mrs. Gordana Lukac-Koritnik, attorney for gender equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88342	Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. In relation to the debate carried out on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2006, I must first of all say that some are being observed, and on the issue of issues which our Office also deals with important positive points. No one questioned the need for the Republic of Croatia to continue promoting gender equality policy. I don't think it's even a question of the fact that gender discrimination exists and that it's necessary to work on its elimination and that the counsel's recommendations are justified. I think many also accept recommendations related to the need to amend legislation as well as practices that lead to or which allow gender discrimination. As far as the Office's visibility is concerned, the data that isn't shown in the report shows because we've been tracking it, you've seen 3,000 100 and some articles that the Office itself is very present in the media, and maybe that's one of the reasons why you're looking at the number of complaints is actually a negligible number of complaints for which we're not in charge. It means that the institution's jurisdiction is recognised, and this is obviously also related to media activity. Unfortunately, however, media performances are not and could never have led to a shift in the application of certain legal provisions on their own. It has already led to the work of this Office, and sometimes exclusively the work of this Office, and evidence of both action plans and the shift in advertising, the way statistics are collected. The work of the advertising police is clearly evident from the lawyer's recommendation report, the adoption of internal acts of employers related to the Labour Act. Bringing the Ethics Code of the University and all that. What I have to say about jurisdiction, they're all the same in all the defenses. If they change, and if they give an extended authority to those attorneys, that's one thing. However, the powers differ from what the esteemed representative Perman said we do not have feedback. The Law on Gender Equality does not oblige those who are alerted to feedback. We have, we have, we have from the parties themselves, some of which are seen in the report, but in the law governing his work, the responsibilities clearly exist. And then he can use it in that sense. As far as the number of complaints are concerned, I think that there must be a specific and limited scope of the work of this Attorney General and that is, above all, gender discrimination. The area of work, for example, as a public defender, is important by looking at the number of human rights that can be violated. As for the number of complaints, it should also be said that the public was and is more sensitive to the violation of children’s rights than to gender discrimination. One reason is probably in the number of complaints. Third, as regards the number of complaints, as well as in this debate, it depends on the environment in which these violations occur and the environment must be encouraging to seek protection. This is already happening when it comes to domestic violence, and much work should be done to create this environment related to gender discrimination for the labour market. About the work and monitoring of the application, this is a report to the Croatian Parliament. But we already know, and we can also conclude that the data that we have collected, which is not only statistical but also research-related, will certainly be important for informing the UN committees or in the "screening" process where the status of women and men in the Republic of Croatia can indeed be seen through these reports. As far as the Office's question is concerned, I have to say what we have listed in the Office's work report. However, as regards the Central State Office's report on the same, an objection was lodged. He was partially adopted. Because they wrote first of all after all they had been the report as if it were the Government's Office for Gender Equality and that we are not acting under the regulation. So there were a lot of gaps, and they certainly did not determine the state of human relations, nor were they in charge of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88343	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the Ombudsman on gender equality in 2006. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Advocate for Gender Equality for 2006 is being taken into account. Please vote. The result? 70 for you. Eight abstentions and five against. I find that the conclusion has been accepted, the proposed conclusion. This proposed conclusion, on the adoption of this conclusion, is without prejudice to the vote on the other proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First, I thank you for the opportunity to replace these points. In just a few words, I'd like to describe to you the report in front of you. The report consists of several parts based on the activities of the Croatian Olympic Committee. In the first part, it consists of a review of sports achievements. You can see from all indications that the past sports year has been extremely successful for Croatian athletes and athletes and I hope that it will remain that way in the second year. The second part refers to a whole series of programmes led by the Croatian Olympic Committee as well. The first program is the Olympic Games program. You are aware that last year we had the Olympic Games in Turin, winter, that Croatia took part in Alpine skiing and according to the winning medals in the very upper part of the European countries. As for preparation for the Summer Olympics in Beijing, I can inform you that the preparations are in order, without any problems. Most logistics issues have already been resolved, and the number of candidates and candidates is growing every day given the good form of our athletes. The National Sports Alliance Programme is being conducted in the Croatian Olympic Committee based on international competitions. He sees her from the financial statement last year fully funded. We didn't have any trouble setting up that program. Next, I would like to draw your attention from these programmes of local sport, which we have developed in cooperation with the Croatian lottery, on the development of sports on islands, the development program of sports in the areas that were destroyed in the war and special sub-programmes for Vukovar and Knin. All these programs are happening neatly and we have within these programmes we have very, very nice results and recognitions by our local communities. The special programmes run by the Croatian Olympic Committee are those relating to the work of coaches and to the care of young athletes and athletes. In the programme concerning young athletes and athletes, I can inform you that there were 103 athletes and athletes in the programme last year. I would say everything that represents the more significant potential of Croatian sport is covered by this programme, and in the training program there were 51 trainers except Mr. Slaven Bilić all our top coaches, all our menus are also users of this programme and all those who work with young, national selections. The following part of the report concerns business control. Control consists of three parts. You see in the report that one part refers to internal control, the other part to commercial audit, and the third part to the State Audit and the fourth part to the application of ISO 9001, which is one of the few NGOs that have such standards. And the fifth part relates to financial operations. If you look at the revenue side, you can see that the revenues are made at a larger amount than planned, and the expenditure side is that expenditure is achieved at less than expected. Therefore, if we were a profitable organization, we would have a conditional profit. This is how extra funds are used to promote the sport of young generations. So it turns into new programs, into new users. Here, Mr. Vice President, that's the brief content of this report. I hope you're happy with him and will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88347	Does the rapporteur want a committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Does the government's representative want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I can't begin to discuss this report without recalling again and congratulating Janica and Ivica Kostelic at great range at the games of the 20th Winter Olympics in Turin last year because they gave them the stamp and medals of all other athletes in the last year, and those who were less closely monitored, but therefore are not less valuable or won with less effort and commitment and which I personally am particularly sensitive to because I come from one of those sports that are unwarrantedly called small sports. That is why I want to highlight the world's gold-wagonist Emil Milihram, a representative of usbudsmen, a fisherman of Stefan Stevk, a swimmer of Duja Draganja and all other conquerors of total 442 world and European medals won in all adult categories. I congratulate them all on behalf of the SDP Club one more time. But let me get back to the report. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction with the quality of this report, which has been raised markedly compared to the report of earlier years. However, this would not in itself matter if the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee would not be significantly improved on what several important facts testify about. First, a certificate of ISO 9001 with two thousand to improve the quality management system for the promotion and development of sports in Croatia, creating conditions for top sports creation and presenting sports achievements abroad with validity until March 2009 and congratulating all those in the Croatian Olympic Committee who have contributed to the achievement of this certificate with the hope that the required level of quality will be maintained in the coming years so that the expiry of the certificate can be restored. The second thing I congratulate you on is a financial report showing a positive balance for nearly 6 million kunas, which until a few years ago was an unattainable dream. Finally, the report of the auditors which shows that the financial reports are shown objectively and realistically, thus eliminating the shortcomings and irregularities of earlier years. However, I still need to highlight a few details that could still be improved in the future work of the Croatian Olympic Committee. As far as sportsman status is concerned, the satisfactory dynamics of a categorisation solution have not yet been achieved, so of 2 thousand 407 requests in this year 173 have been unsettled. As in our society, a relatively small number of citizens cover the activities of sport recreation of 10 sports leaders and animators of sports-recreation activities that were trained in cooperation with the Croatian Olympic Academy in 2006 is far too small for the number of citizens involved in sports recreation to increase significantly. It seems to me that within the framework of the joint programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee and local sports communities, a short date arises somewhere. Final information and criteria do not often come to clubs, i.e. those who have and implement programmes, so these funds remain insufficiently used or completely unused. Therefore, it would be good for all the rules and decisions of the individual bodies and bodies of the Croatian Olympic Committee to be fully published on the HoO websites, and not just for some to be more accessible to a wider range of stakeholders without additional intermediaries in national alliances or local sports communities. For example, a regulation on categorisation has been published but no criteria have been published on the web. Speaking about the health of athletes, I must express regret that the health care programmes, which are mainly about the education of a small number of sports workers and activists, because the new Sport Act, as well as the Health Protection Act, did not give room for health care to athletes through specialised sports clinics in the primary health care system, but the reviews are still carried out in expensive private offices, very often insufficiently equipped with staff of inadequate qualifications, which is particularly expressed in smaller environments. Health checks have been reported to cover 184 athletes, including 50 Olympic candidates. This raises the question why only 50 potential Olympics are included when they total 90. As well as by which criteria athletes, as well as by which criteria athletes were taken for examinations and from which sports. I think it would be good to explain that in future, too. The second and fourth paragraphs are probably included in the Doping Control chapter by mistake because they do not belong to this chapter, but a great contribution from the Health Commission of the Croatian Olympic Committee is mentioned to encourage the idea of establishing the Croatian Institute for Sports Medicine. Unfortunately, the effort was great, among others mine, because on this very subject I submitted an amendment to the adoption of the Law on Sports, but as it is known he was not adopted and athletes are still one of the healthiest categories of society. It is unclear how and why special care for young athletes is classified in individual and team sports as part of individual programmes. It would also be good if the total number of participants were listed, and I think of nations and individuals by sports and categories to see the actual value of the results achieved. It is known that in some sports there are very many categories and disciplines, examples are martial arts, and within a particular category or discipline there are only a few competitors and then the first place of 5 competitors is not the same as the first place among 150 competitors. Furthermore, individual programmes have shown that special care for young people has produced much better results in individual sports, which is logical because the programme covers the most prospective individuals. Unlike team sports where there are better and weaker players inside the team. The coaching programme shows that the programme covers 51 coaches from 29 sports. But I think that the programme should be extended to other sports, and that for a particular category they should be covered by two coaches, for a male and female team, which specifically refers to sports with less financial strength that cannot provide themselves with additional resources for professional work. It is known that the needs are ever greater than possibilities, but perhaps it could be considered to rescheduling the amount to be divided for one coach into two, which is still much more than if it is done, if the coach is fully free of charge. The Chapter of the Joint Programme Tasks also mentions the initiative of the Olympic Club and the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee on Law-Making, which would allow Olympic medal winners to receive permanent monthly fees and top athletes the right to more favourable employment with the help of the state. It is certainly to commend one such initiative. But we must in no way allow professional athletes with one-off incomes and earnings compared to citizens' incomes to those of the same citizens to finance additionally monthly. For example, it is unacceptable for a longtime top tennis player, a professional with a registered residence in Monaco to avoid taxes in the Republic of Croatia with hundreds, thousands or millions earned by sponsoring euros from the pocket of Croatian citizens to an additional one or two average salaries, regardless of age, material status, income height or competitive status. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that such a proposal applies only to Olympic sports. The question is what about world medal winners and records, even multiple from neo-Olympic sports that also compete at the world level in the same competition as Olympics. Or world medalists from Olympic sports, which are under the circumstances, who have not had the opportunity to participate in the Olympic Games. We at the SDP club support the initiative to address existential issues of athletes after an active sports career, but certainly taking care of top athletes from all sports and above all taking care of their material status. On this occasion, I would also like to mention the world programmes in the framework of the Olympic Solidarity of the International Olympic Committee, including the programme of national courses for sports administrators. It is unclear what will happen with the training of candidates for directors of national courses, i.e. the way they will be licensed. According to my knowledge it seems that the candidate for director I should have devised a course on my own pre-specified topic and then after the course I conducted, get a license, which is very questionable to me. Although a new single information system of the Croatian Olympic Committee and its members has been designed to be completed by April of this year, there is still no satisfactory database, as well as coordination between individual services of the HOO, and I hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible. I would also like to particularly praise this occasion the After Career project, which refers to the system of education of categorized athletes for professions in Croatia and Europe. For example, a European computer diploma covering 348 athletes. As far as sportsman status is concerned, the satisfactory dynamics of a categorisation solution have not yet been achieved, so of 2 thousand 407 requests in this year 173 have been unsettled. As in our society, a relatively small number of citizens cover the activities of sport recreation of 10 sports leaders and animators of sports-recreation activities that were trained in cooperation with the Croatian Olympic Academy in 2006 is far too small for the number of citizens involved in sports recreation to increase significantly. It seems to me that within the framework of the joint programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee and local sports communities, a short date arises somewhere. Final information and criteria do not often come to clubs, i.e. those who have and implement programmes, so these funds remain insufficiently used or completely unused. Therefore, it would be good for all the rules and decisions of the individual bodies and bodies of the Croatian Olympic Committee to be fully published on the HoO websites, and not just for some to be more accessible to a wider range of stakeholders without additional intermediaries in national alliances or local sports communities. For example, a regulation on categorisation has been published but no criteria have been published on the web. Speaking about the health of athletes, I must express regret that the health care programmes, which are mainly about the education of a small number of sports workers and activists, because the new Sport Act, as well as the Health Protection Act, did not give room for health care to athletes through specialised sports clinics in the primary health care system, but the reviews are still carried out in expensive private offices, very often insufficiently equipped with staff of inadequate qualifications, which is particularly expressed in smaller environments. Health checks have been reported to cover 184 athletes, including 50 Olympic candidates. This raises the question why only 50 potential Olympics are included when they total 90. As well as by which criteria athletes, as well as by which criteria athletes were taken for examinations and from which sports. I think it would be good to explain that in future, too. The second and fourth paragraphs are probably included in the Doping Control chapter by mistake because they do not belong to this chapter, but a great contribution from the Health Commission of the Croatian Olympic Committee is mentioned to encourage the idea of establishing the Croatian Institute for Sports Medicine. Unfortunately, the effort was great, among others mine, because on this very subject I submitted an amendment to the adoption of the Law on Sports, but as it is known he was not adopted and athletes are still one of the healthiest categories of society. It is unclear how and why special care for young athletes is classified in individual and team sports as part of individual programmes. It would also be good if the total number of participants were listed, and I think of nations and individuals by sports and categories to see the actual value of the results achieved. It is known that in some sports there are very many categories and disciplines, examples are martial arts, and within a particular category or discipline there are only a few competitors and then the first place of 5 competitors is not the same as the first place among 150 competitors. Furthermore, individual programmes have shown that special care for young people has produced much better results in individual sports, which is logical because the programme covers the most prospective individuals. Unlike team sports where there are better and weaker players inside the team. The coaching programme shows that the programme covers 51 coaches from 29 sports. But I think that the programme should be extended to other sports, and that for a particular category they should be covered by two coaches, for a male and female team, which specifically refers to sports with less financial strength that cannot provide themselves with additional resources for professional work. It is known that the needs are ever greater than possibilities, but perhaps it could be considered to rescheduling the amount to be divided for one coach into two, which is still much more than if it is done, if the coach is fully free of charge. The Chapter of the Joint Programme Tasks also mentions the initiative of the Olympic Club and the Council of the Croatian Olympic Committee on Law-Making, which would allow Olympic medal winners to receive permanent monthly fees and top athletes the right to more favourable employment with the help of the state. It is certainly to commend one such initiative. But we must in no way allow professional athletes with one-off incomes and earnings compared to citizens' incomes to those of the same citizens to finance additionally monthly. For example, it is unacceptable for a longtime top tennis player, a professional with a registered residence in Monaco to avoid taxes in the Republic of Croatia with hundreds, thousands or millions earned by sponsoring euros from the pocket of Croatian citizens to an additional one or two average salaries, regardless of age, material status, income height or competitive status. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that such a proposal applies only to Olympic sports. The question is what about world medal winners and records, even multiple from neo-Olympic sports that also compete at the world level in the same competition as Olympics. Or world medalists from Olympic sports, which are under the circumstances, who have not had the opportunity to participate in the Olympic Games. We at the SDP club support the initiative to address existential issues of athletes after an active sports career, but certainly taking care of top athletes from all sports and above all taking care of their material status. On this occasion, I would also like to mention the world programmes in the framework of the Olympic Solidarity of the International Olympic Committee, including the programme of national courses for sports administrators. It is unclear what will happen with the training of candidates for directors of national courses, i.e. the way they will be licensed. According to my knowledge it seems that the candidate for director I should have devised a course on my own pre-specified topic and then after the course I conducted, get a license, which is very questionable to me. Although a new single information system of the Croatian Olympic Committee and its members has been designed to be completed by April of this year, there is still no satisfactory database, as well as coordination between individual services of the HOO, and I hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible. I would also like to particularly praise this occasion the After Career project, which refers to the system of education of categorized athletes for professions in Croatia and Europe. For example, a European computer diploma covering 348 athletes. However, it seems to me that further efforts should be made to make the entry of realisation more, i.e. a greater number of athletes and completed education perhaps through preparatory courses in the largest county, or regional centres, as well as by enabling education in the next stage of those who have completed their primary degree. I mean, first of all, a European computer degree. The monograph on the road to olympics should certainly be mentioned as a special edition for 15 years from the draft Croatian Olympic Committee. Unfortunately, although it represents all Olympic and Neolimpic sports, it does not contain a single picture of athletes or concerts from neo-Olympic sports, which I find inappropriate in view of the successes of Neolimpic sports. In contrast, some olympics with not a large number of medals have unwarrantedly obtained more pictures across the page, so they get the impression that other sports in Croatia are not available, that the number and size of their paintings have fallen slightly in the same number of pages could be found in places for a few scenes or athletes from neo-Olympic sports. It seems to me that too little has been done to increase the media presence and space of other sports compared to balls and several individual Olympic sports. They are only a few lines present in written media, mostly local, and in electronic media there is no news of world achievements. On the contrary, we're full of NBA league screens or football league championships. The Croatian Olympic Committee should do more to bring less-known sports to the general public, primarily through targeted thematic emissions in electronic media. The Croatian Olympic Academy has fully justified the objective of its existence and should seek to extend education programmes to all sports according to the provisions of the Law on Sports and the needs of a particular sports branch. It is also commendable that the Croatian Olympic Committee recognised the need to encourage sports on the islands and does so from its own resources, given the fact that the programme is in the state budget, although only as a pilot project unfortunately already left immediately in the beginning. And finally, two on the financial report. It is evident that the Croatian Olympic Committee successfully raises revenues mainly through business co-operation with sponsor companies, its own revenues, marketing and gambling revenues. It is saddened, however, that the state budget funds are relatively lower each year, although they are nominally at the same level as 30 million each year as in '99. However, given that the state budget has increased by more than two and a half times compared to '99 and that the funds for public needs in sport have been reduced by more than six million kunas in 2006, or even 21%, it is clear how much this government holds to sports and sports success. Something is trying to correct the Stythian award of certain major successes, but it has no real impact on sport as a whole, so it would be necessary to establish a minimum percentage of sport in the national and local budgets in order for sport to have systematic preconditions for further development and that I have submitted an amendment to the adoption of the Sport Act, but unfortunately it is not accepted, so we are left with the stellar fire extinguishing measures. And to conclude, the SDP club will support this report, noting that the comments made in the future of the Croatian Olympic Committee will be taken into account and that they will be as little as possible in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88349	Thank you. There is one correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect assumption, I would say a flat-rate claim that came from some Croatian media that, in fact, it's about the awards for outstanding achievements in sports, so she said a respected colleague that she didn't know who was winning or what rights. It writes nicely in the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Club who has these rights and how many years and what has to meet everything, what conditions to have the right if the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts it, and I hope it will adopt because this government is in the interest of improving the situation in Croatian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88351	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the president of the Olympic Committee of Mr. Mateshu, Mr.... from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we at the HDZ Club have discussed this report, and we would like all the reports in this House to come in as this report is right in front of all of us, to be an example of how it is done and what reports should come to this House, so I congratulate you Mr. President on this quality report. Only when you open one page at the beginning, page three when you see an increase in gold, silver, bronze from 1st to 8th bronze, from 1st to 8th place and how much increase it is. I think we can start with this assumption that this many medals are won, and a colleague just now said it's bad funding. So this is clear proof that money is very important, and in terms of sport it's very difficult to do with money something much more, with sure that some things can be bridged, but the result in sport cannot be made with money, but only by systematic work. That is why we have for the first time in Croatia the first Croatian Sport Act to receive all the praises, except for some people who have nothing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not do well, and so does this Sport Act. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club have perhaps had a small proposal that would certainly, which will surely come upon fertile soil as regards the health care of athletes. So here we at the club suggest that in agreement with you Mr. President we establish the Croatian Institute of Sports Medicine because surely the doctor and medical staff in sport have been getting smaller and smaller lately because we haven't had, we don't have this institute from where we're going to drag these doctors to successfully and successfully carry out their task, tasks in sport, which is to prevent and prevent injuries. A little while ago, my colleague earlier said that athletes, I'm sorry, to make prevention is correct. A little while ago, a colleague said that athletes, something very ugly, were in the leading place of bad protection, that they were most exposed. Well, I wouldn't agree. Every national selection has at least two doctors and physiotherapists, and every club in Croatia has more than two doctors because every game you see two doctors and when you go on the road there are more. So it's covered on that side. And sports alone is a sign that what is said in a healthy body, a healthy spirit, and there is certainly a leading sport. So I think you might consider, Mr. President, this Institute of Sports Medicine. And in terms of finance, I mean, there's nothing to add. This is where the review was made, which is yours on the Olympic Committee itself, as well as the state audit. And I'd like to congratulate you on one thing so you can make a lot of money with a little money. In the end, the HDZ Club will support this report. And I think I'd like to make a suggestion that the other reports will be of this quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88353	Thank you. One correction, Mrs. Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88354	In fact, counterpart Arabovic said there is no alliance and that there is no practical club in which there is no doctor. Maybe that applies to the so-called. Big sports, the so-called. Or in men's clubs, but the fact is definitely that in small sports there are no alliances, there is no doctor in any club. ... And there's other sports. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said in all the sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88355	Thank you very much. For the club HNS, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, during 2006 Croatian sports proved once again that they are presenting Croatia worldwide in the best possible way. We received gold and silver medals at the Winter Olympics in Turin, Janica and Ivica Kostelic, world and European swimming champion Duja Draganja and Alexei Puuninski, the winners of the Cup of Nations in men's tennis, champions of Europe in the water polo "Jug", the world's champion jump in the hall of Blanco Vlasic, our athletes achieved extraordinary results and won medals in boxing, karate, tea kwan doo, sailing, rowing, shooting, guzzling, gymnastics, skiing, tennis and many other sports. A new Croatian water polo organisation with new menus and great results appeared. The high-end results were achieved by our athletes with disabilities. We could list a lot more really great results and names but also the numbers speak enough. With three Olympic medals, our athletes won 170 medals in 2006 at world championships, 109 medals at world cups, 94 medals at European championships and 27 medals at European cups. On behalf of the HNS Club, at the beginning of the debate, we would like to show satisfaction with the report of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the support of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in the future. Namely, from the entire report and from those from the past two years since the Croatian Olympic Committee has seen significant quality personal and structural changes, it is evident that the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing better, that the needs of athletes and national alliances are being paid maximum attention and that the whole thinking of sports is being placed on a much higher, more quality level, level that thinks about the future. Finally, the Croatian Olympic Committee is in the position of athletes, no longer a service for ordinary distribution of money and is not its own purpose. The new role of the Croatian Olympic Committee has changed the entire environment in which the Olympic family in Croatia operates, but all this would not be enough if the arrival of new people did not begin to work in a completely different, better and better way. Unlike a few years ago, national sports alliances play a much more important role, respect for their proposals, great attention is paid to sports promotion programmes in local areas, sportsmen status issues, youth sport, sports recreation and sports for all, health care of athletes, doping protection and what was almost impossible from year to year in previous structures is increasing its own resources to the Croatian Olympic Committee, funds achieved from marketing activities. All this when it comes to quality work and when jobs are accepted by people with knowledge, education and expertise results in even better results from athletes, many medals and good placements in the biggest sports and European competitions, world and European competitions. What is seen from this report is that they have been constantly increasing the funding needed for national sports alliances' programmes since 2004. And what is important to note is the necessary resources are provided in time and paid within the deadlines, and what is extremely important, to the alliances for timely preparation for the implementation of the plans and for the achievement of the objectives set out. What we consider to be very brave, and such efforts should certainly be supported by the Croatian Olympic Committee's plan to raise up to 25% of the total funds it has for its work in the next four years. The creation of the Croatian Olympic Committee as a strong and successful and above all responsible sports body in the Republic of Croatia with which economic operators can build their own image is certainly for support and for such a way of working should be followed by many other segments of social and economic life in our country. That the planned strategy has already achieved its success in the beginning of the period also shows a review of the marketing contracts that the Croatian Olympic Committee is carrying out in 2006 as well as an increase in its own funds in that same year. We also want to praise the system of information not only of the Croatian Olympic Committee as an institution but also of the entire system of sports that is under way, since this will further speed up, modernise and refresh the entire segment of sport, and facilitate the performance of their daily activities for athletes. What we should still worry about in this story is a 20% reduction in the planned funds that the Croatian Olympic Committee receives as regular funds for its programmes from the state budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing which covers its holes and in a way that the funds foreseen for sport take away from the item of the Croatian Olympic Committee. We do not understand the logic of the state authorities that through successful activities such as sport is taking away the planned funds to cover some of their wrong assessments. On the contrary, we believe that the state budget should be much fairer to sportsmen and athletes, i.e. that more funds intended for sport should be allocated from the budget each year. Sports and athletes are investment in the future, the best promotion of Croatia and its citizens. And since this government didn't realize it, the HNS government at the head of Radiir Cacic will certainly know how to identify and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88357	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations, Željko Nenadić first and Arabovic second.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88358	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that my colleague Kapraljevic accidentally left out all those who won medals in last year's best young selection of the Republic of Croatia, it is a cadet team in handball players born in '88. the years and younger who are European champions and among other things have the best young player in Europe and the best young goalie in Europe. So these are the young people facing the future, and I found it appropriate to correct this injustice and correct this opportunity. And I want success at the world championship that's two months from now in the Emirates.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88359	Thank you. Correction Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88360	Well, I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Capraljevic, when he said Cacic's government. It can only be the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88361	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee will conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88362	Mr. Vice President, honorary MPs and counsellors. I thank you for all the beautiful things that have been said on behalf of Croatian athletes and athletes. We're trying to create infrastructure with your help, help the government that they can function. I also want to ask you for one such support of uniqueness because I know that in this hall everyone loves sports. The Olympic Games are ahead of us, less than 450 days away from Beijing. If there is such support on your part as the report I hope we'll all be pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88363	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are going to the programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2005. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2006 is accepted. Please vote. The result? 80 for it. Two abstentions. I don't mind. I find that most votes, 80 with 2 abstentions, have reached a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88366	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency continued its work and council decisions last year to encourage the liberalisation of the telecommunications market with a view to ensuring optimal balance between the interests of the users and the reasonable return of the operator's investment. In particular, we sought to ensure and promote effective and sustainable competition with equal opportunities for all participants and to prevent abuses of a dominant position on the market. Generally, when we talk about the TK market regulation model, we think it is necessary to seek to create conditions for the market to become a dominant regulator in the end. In the near future, however, that is not possible. For the survival of new operators, the fair and efficient functioning of regulators on the one hand and a serious and successful operator on the other hand is necessary. The market for services in mobile networks is the best example of how it can only be properly regulated because this market already shows the first signs of self-regulatory by entering a new Tele2 operator that has brought down prices and diversity of tariff packages for both business and private users. The decommissioning of local loops to new operators in the immovable network provides a competitive advantage because their majority income is now not being overrun by HT. At the lowest price of local loops or access... in Europe, that's 52.14 kuna. We opened up the possibility of competition, which was best shown last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency has demonstrated by its work so far that it monitors the moves of HT both in relation to Iskon and in relation to other operators when it does not allow any discrimination on the market. The main trends are the increase in traffic or use of TK services, the decline in prices, thereby creating better conditions for the economy and the population. The Republic of Croatia started by liberalising the market later but therefore the process is faster than in the countries recently admitted to the European Union. In the comparison tables that we put in the report, you can see that well. As for last year and the situation of the telecommunications market at the end of the year, the total income on the telecommunications market was 13 billion 721 million kuna or 5.45% more than in 2005. There are a million 821 thousand users or 41.5% in the relevant public and voice services market in the immovable network. Of these, the share of new operators is as regards user base 234 thousand users or 13% and the share of new operators in terms of income is 7.15%. Total numbers transferred through the central database of numbers transferred to the agency, which is therefore an example of the good work of the function of the numbers transferred in the region recognised at the South-Eastern Europe Conference in Sofia. So 70,000 and 117 numbers were transferred. Overall, local loops were only 617 at the end of the year, but it is interesting that in the first quarter of this year 6000 is 480. The reduction in public voice service prices over the past year is between 2.5% and 9.66% based on the OECD basket. Last year I was asked here at the same place to give comparison tables of telecommunications prices in Croatia compared to prices in European countries, with the right to do so. The price of a local call in the Republic of Croatia is lower than the EU 25 average by 12.2%. The price of national calls in the Republic of Croatia is lower than the EU 25 average by 54%. In Croatia, as you know, the price of national and local transport is the same as it is not in European countries, but is tariffd in proportion to distance. The price of the international call for closer countries is lower than the average of EU countries 25... 37.33%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the price of international calls to remote countries is higher than the EU 25 average by 108%, but new operators are emerging in this segment and drastically destroying prices. The Internet. The number of Internet users is a million 674 thousand and close to 40%. The number of broadband internet access at the end of the year was 251 thousand 800 or 5.6%. It's 7% today. This number is also growing with the incentives that the Government of the Republic of Croatia participates in. We expect rapid growth because this famous gap needs to be overcome in the use of broadband access to the Internet. The services in mobile networks as I have said show also this rapid growth, the services in mobile networks show all the positive effects of liberalisation. At the end of last year, the number of users measured by active all cards exceeded the penetration of 100% and 4 million and 4 million 469 thousand respectively. Total... The user is 105 grand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Total... The numbers are 10 grand 721. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I repeat this is an example of all the effects, the positive effects of competition on the telecommunications market where operators and the previous two who, with a demanding market power and a new operator in a mutual competition in terms of price, quality, utility, subsidisation of apparatus have practically made this service accessible to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Price reduction, use of public voice service based on the "OECD" basket ranged from 1.3 to 17 percent. Depending on the type of user basket prices in the Republic of Croatia are below 16% to 48% compared to the EU Median. The source is Callen International, Report number three. Now he would say something about the topic that has occupied the entire Croatian public and the professional public, which is the common use of infrastructure. I think I've done a lot of boasting so far. In this area, we know that there have been major difficulties due to unresolved property-legal relations. It was a bad situation. A lot of abuse. Unauthorized use without payment, disorder, intricacies and endangerment of telecommunications traffic entirely. The objectives of the agencies in accordance with the Telecommunications Act were Article 22: introducing order, encouraging joint use and ensuring in order future development. During 2006, the Agency organised and teamed up for this challenge. We have conducted public consultations on taking responsibility and how to deal with the joint use of infrastructure and, in our court, as much as it may not seem, the exact situation has stabilized and the trend is much more favourable or is heading towards settlement. 12 contracts have been concluded between local self-government and HT units on the one hand and new operators on the other. Two operators who did not comply with the rules of the profession and the law were handed over to the inspector for further treatment, as I said for abuse. There are no requirements that have not been processed by the agency. The illegal use has been reduced from 8,000 miles to 7,000, and legal use has been increased from two thousand to 3,000, 800 kilometers. It is possible that the creation of large debates over ownership of TK infrastructure has favoured those operators who have avoided payment. On the other hand, it also favoured HT for delaying the provision of leases to competitors and thus stalled liberalisation. Our attitude is clear and we will insist on it. Using all the levers at our disposal. And this is that the use of common telecommunications infrastructure should be regulated, covered by appropriate contracts and paid for. Whether the local self-government unit or the HT or any other owner or in the end line as provided by the law in the Agency's received account. We'll insist on that. So on the contract, on the payment of the bill and on the payment of VAT. Everything else leads to discrimination because it still happens on the Croatian telecom market that some operators pay their obligations neatly and those who do not do so create a competitively favourable position, therefore, non-discrimination. The Agency won't be involved in this. As regards the protection of the users of telecommunications services, I would like to point out that the Council of Users, which was established as an advisory body of the Agency at the end of 1995, worked throughout, throughout 2006, and I would like to list the measures and activities carried out in order to protect users. First of all, "anti-dailer" programs have been used to protect against the extreme danger of abuse and billing. Risk numbers on the web have been shown and instructions have been given to protect against abuse. A ban on outgoing calls to risk numbers has been introduced at the request of the user which has not been so far. Then you can limit the account to up to 500 kuna if you wish. Consumer protection has been integrated into the general conditions of providing TK services and, as a result of all these activities and measures, the result is a reduction in the number of advertisings. Na, 5 weeks and 71%, respectively. So this is the exact data. We think there's still room here, but we also think we can be satisfied with this. As regards international activity last year, a regional radio-communication conference aimed at harmonising digital television frequency plans was held in Geneva from 15 May to 16 June. I remind you that it was after Stockholm in 1961 when, when the frequency plans for analogue television were adopted, it was second to the meaning of the event of this kind. After two years of preparatory action, our representatives achieved full success at the conference and in each other's coordination they secured, the future is secured, the good future of digital electronic media in the Republic of Croatia. As for capacity in new technology, so capacity will be 4 times more than in... I don't want to talk about the quality of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency also organised a digital television forum for content and technology. We also launched a discussion on the transition strategy from analogue to digital technology because the regional conference set the deadline for 2012 as the deadline for the necessary transition from analogue to digital. We also encouraged debate in the selection of Croatian standards... which is very important before any implementation process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also launched a debate about dynamics and time of transition. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency participates as an equal member of an independent regulatory group and, therefore, as a full member and as an observer in the European regulatory group. The Agency has also actively participated in the accession negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, in particular in the process of deep analysis of the compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia screening in Chapter 10. – Information society and media. By its work, and in particular the results of its work, the agencies contributed to the opening of negotiations for Chapter 10 without additional criteria. According to the financial report that 223 million kuna was paid into the state budget of this activity, the income of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency was 68 million, costs 33 million and a half, the difference was 34 and a half million. An explanation. We have not realised the acquisition of business space according to the financial plan. The other items of the financial plan are mainly realised. It's final. The Agency, as an independent national telecommunications market regulator, encouraged effective non-sustainable market competition in its work last year by making all key decisions on the course of liberalisation and, as recommended by the European Union. The consequences of these decisions are evident in the 2006 indicators, especially in the first quarter of 2007, through increased traffic, lower prices, increased number of operators and service providers, better service to the economy and citizens. As a confirmation of the Agency's successful action in 2006, the Republic of Croatia received an invitation in the EU accession negotiations process on 31 January 2007 to deliver negotiating positions for Chapter 10. – information society and media. The Committee of Permanent Representatives accepted the screening report and concluded that Croatia is prepared enough to open negotiations in the chapter – information society and media without additional standards. This has contributed to the successful walk of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88367	Thank you very much. We have one correction from Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88368	So let me correct Mr. Gachina when he talked about HT working to make the account and charge of the telecommunications network users better and to collect VAT, collect VAT from that title. I'd like to remind you that this is about a report for the past year, not a plan and a program for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88369	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Do they? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88370	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Gachin. First of all, I would like to express my regret that this report of the Telecommunications Agency is not to be discussed at a more appropriate time when our citizens too would have full insight into what this agency is doing, because I also have to tell you colleagues here who are sitting, as well as all citizens in Croatia, that the work of this agency depends on your payments that you receive monthly for the phone. The better this agency does, the less your payments are going to be, the worse the agency is going to make your payments. So, self-evaluate what your phone bills are and directly for that is the responsibility of this agency. And now for last year's report. So first, just a few sentences about what was given in this report, and then what was not given in this report, and it would be easier to fit into the section believe it or not. It has been 12 months since the debate on the topic of last year's HTA report, which despite sharp criticism was accepted by most votes. It is natural that this type of report seeks to put and underline positive steps first and that is their legitimate right. But none of us can resist the general impression of the telecommunication market, which is not as great as this report wants to show. It is true that in 2006 it was the first year of some kind of liberalisation of the telecom market in the Republic of Croatia. However, in the conclusion of its report on page 57, paragraph 1 that the activities I quote are “focused on the liberalisation of the market, which implies creating equal and transparent conditions for new operators and providers on the market is a complete distortion of the true state of affairs. This report shows that an under-quality problem of consumer protection has been addressed. There's not enough activity to deal with citizens' complaints. I think polls should be conducted in order to take into account citizens' opinions, their possible proposals and the like. In the section relating to the use of built telecommunications infrastructure, it is unclear why the HAT, after the circus, had conducted a public hearing after a year and a half after the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Telecommunications Act and had started to apply the provisions of Article 22 under which the HAT was authorised to adopt provisional solutions on the common use of telecommunications infrastructure in cases where no owner of the same telecommunications infrastructure has been established. The report also does not show whether, in this case, when the HAT adopts a temporary solution to the joint use of the said infrastructure, it is resolved according to all the requirements received and whether there are unresolved and how many, and for which it has not been solved? That's what's missing from this report. The report should also point to predictability of the Agency's work, transparency and the arrival of new investors. Given the current report “Global Information Social Watch” presented in Geneva these days, which suggests that the National Telecommunications Agency does not have enough knowledge and independence to control the market. So I stress there is not enough knowledge and independence to control the market, that the tariffs for phone calls are higher than the European average. My colleagues, this applies to all of you because you get large bills, i.e. that analysis shows that citizens of Central and Eastern European countries pay more expensive telecommunications services than citizens of the rest of the European Union. Unfortunately, Croatia has missed an opportunity to become a leader in IT technology in the region even though such a possibility has been suggested in 2000. Why fellow MPs? I ask you gentlemen, what are the same and transparent conditions for new operators if the market and income stake in THT did not reduce the former monopoly, and whose haughtiness many of our citizens feel. On page 15, the number of users of broadband networks was slightly later 275,000 in February 2007. Unfortunately, there is no number showing how much the share of new operators, publishers, i.e. Is THT's share greater than 99%. Therefore, on page 19, it is claimed that there are 9 active operators in a fixed network. How is it possible that two in the THT group, T-com and ISKON system hold more than 99% of the market in a wide clear segment and the other 7 in a miserable part of 1%. Isn't rhetoric about equal and transparent conditions pure farce? And why is it that the report does not mention in any word the disputed acquisition of ISKON by HT and the completely unnatural and unnecessary rounding of THT groups that have so negatively marked this very 2006 that we are now reporting. And why the report doesn't mention a Vip-net home box service that happens to be playing ball between the agency and the rest of the ministry at the end of last year because no one wanted to object to the Austrian calf giant. And when was it made clear to everyone that allowing the disputed service is holding back the further liberalisation of HT with the patronage of the ministry confirms the same? The analysis that will provide answers to these and many more questions will not be found in the report, but you will find many unnecessary and unrealistic indicators. You will not find in the report that the influence of the German, Austrian and recently announced Swiss interests on the Croatian telecommunications market is fully protected. For Croatian citizens, this means that in a telecom sense we are still at the defeating bottom of the European scale. This also confirms the picture on page 9, you can open up colleagues, OECD baskets using a fixed network where we are only better than Cyprus and Estonia in the competition of 26 European countries. Because the image is weak, it's a bad print, but if you try hard, you'll see it's right. And now for the worst. Believe it or not in the box. HT managed to trick the government into entering into a new concession agreement. If we even assume that this government is inextricable and unforgivable, it is unforgivable that the HAT not only tolerates but also confirms with its signature moves that are not only illegal but also anti-constitutional. Because it violates the principle of equality on the market. If we look right through our fingers, because yet we live in Croatia where such failures happen we must not bypass the question of the ability of the people who run the agency of 100 experts, who sign all this in the form of the protocol after having already brought a completely different solution to the HAT. To clarify, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development published on 18 April 2007 on its website the Treaty on conformity of concession agreements with the current Telecommunications Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded with HT, Croatian Telecommunications, d.d. Already on the first news that such a contract would be concluded in a government decision published in the "National Journal" at the end of February this year, legal experts were amazed that the government had concluded any contract with the HT. Contrary to the basic constitutional principle of equality of all before the law that he was an operator, he was also a former monopoliest, he concluded a service contract with the Government, while other operators must apply to the HAT's competent regulatory authority for the purpose of obtaining any authorisation. All of this more when the Government decided last year, in late December, to give its consent to the contractual termination of the concession agreement so that it would be abolished by a decision of February and to order that the contract not to break but to be completed after all. The review of the text of the contract, which is neither complete, since it is called and left to the effect of certain provisions of the old concession agreement which have not been published, results in the government taking over certain guarantees directly granted to HT compared to other operators. And any other person on the Croatian market. For example, the Government has committed to HT to take the necessary steps and to shorten and simplify the process of obtaining the permits, concessions and other necessary HT to carry out its activities and has agreed to determine how to provide individual HT services without grounds in law, for example for accounting services to other operators, so much for the agency that should be market regulators and protect citizens from wavering prices in this sector. However, the real debacle is the government in transferring part of the public power to HT. In accordance with Article 3(3) of the Annex to the Implementing Agreement, it is agreed that the Agency will be obliged to forward the draft HT to all decisions to be granted and concessions to HT for consent. Imagine this. If the HT does not agree with this, the Agency will be obliged to repeat the procedure until it has obtained a confirmatory opinion from the HT. The government thus transferred to HT public powers which can only be transposed under the law. As the government thus assumed on itself the powers vested in the Republic of Croatia only by the legislative body, the Government de facto limited the powers of this Assembly and violated the constitutional provision on the division of power between legislative and executive. The result of such a restriction of the legislative powers of the Chamber in the field of competition regulation is to jeopardise the functioning of the mechanism for the protection of the same position, the principle of equality of all entities on the market, as one of the entities is placed in a privileged position. This also violated the constitutional guarantee of the equal position of businessmen on the market as well as their obligations to the European Union, as well as the principle of equality before the law. According to this contract, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency is obliged to deliver the same HT to the same authorities before making certain decisions. Therefore, one public legal authority must request the permission of a private legal person to exercise its public power. Such a precedent is not known in legal history. What is the most absurd HAT that is responsible for the Croatian Assembly of Labour Permissions will be obtained from a legal entity owned by a German state. That's cute. Dear colleagues and colleagues, someone like this wants us to be further turned into a colony, because we may not be colonized enough. Who is the authority of this ministry and the minister to sign these unfavourable contracts for this country, i.e. in favour of a legal entity owned by another State. And more interestingly, isn't it the role of agency regulators and Council presidents to serve as a correction precisely in these situations, not just to be obedient to signing what's under his nose? To conclude, this is probably the latest HAT report because, under this contract, he transferred his powers to the HT company owned by Germany's Deutsche Telekom. The result of accepting such a report will be a delusion of both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people as a whole. And what is worse than that will only be profited by a monopoliest owned by a majority of Deutsche Telekom, who is already very experienced in stalling the monopoliest position by playing under the table with regulatory agencies and other markets. If they are skillful in playing with our regulatory agency, let us not allow this game to be played with by parliamentary representatives. Finally, regarding this disputed contract, we are aware that on behalf of the election campaign, the public offering of THT shares should experience its promotion in the autumn ahead of the elections. If we close our eyes with one eye, our esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, we do not allow these acts of capital-building to beg us for generations to come. With a letter supplementing the HAT report, the HAT responds to the observations made by the Government in its opinion, and the Government expressed its opinion by focusing critically on the protection of the users of telecommunications services related to the dailers, the public and transparency of the Agency's work and the application of Article 22. Telecommunications laws and for all these reasons, the HNS club, and hopefully the other clubs won't support this report either.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88371	Thank you very much. It's HSP's turn, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88372	Dear ladies and gentlemen. As my predecessor on behalf of the HSP club, I regret that this extremely interesting topic... We are discussing Croatian economies in this hour, that it is not in the morning with greater attention and, of course, with television transmission. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] about the part of the economy that is most proportionate, in which they believe or not the biggest investments in the Croatian market and which believe or do not bring the fastest profit back, except speculation in the building. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, this report discusses how many broadband users are in Croatia, so it is said that in 2006 there were a million and 684 thousand and 600 Internet users of which only 16% or 275 thousand have a broadband internet, which is, of course, cleverly listed by ADSL, which is actually an imitation of the broadband Internet, not the right one. How things actually look, or what the average Croat is facing who is not so lucky to have a home ADSL or simply has that old model you can see from these few simulations of the speed of Internet transmissions that I have prepared for you so look at what it looks like. So we're talking about I-Croatia. So let's try to transfer one document of 1 megabyte to the Internet... Look at the speed this goes with the optical cable, that's these three lower columns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This in the middle is the ADSL that's sneezing, and you've got this up here, the top one is this 56K modem. So it's just a simple one-megabyte document, let's say an excerpt from the garret shop. So there's no way you're gonna take it off in time without losing your temper. So there are 84% of Croats using the Internet with regular modem. Stop. Let's move on. Then we talk a lot about telemedicine. Let's say we switch from Lastov or Vis to an 8-megabyte X-ray. Now. So, of course with the optical cable it goes terribly fast, with ADSL you're also struggling, but there's absolutely no way to do that with 56K modem. So that's what we have right now thanks to THT because these guys are using absolutely every advantage that from an existing network they're not investing anything in it by making a profit. So stop, to switch so that simple x-ray of 8 megabytes... in the most favourable conditions for about half an hour, of course, unless there's a blockage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. Of course, this is a situation where you send your business partner an addendum to an email of 2 megabytes. So the chance to do it with ADSL is kind of a thing, but only when you're receiving it, but if you want to send it, it's awfully slow, with the modem, you can forget it. So, all of this you can clearly see how things actually stand so you can imagine what's going to happen when in a couple of years Windows... will have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] out of about 10 megabytes how long you're gonna need to do this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've decided to show you all this together to make it clear to you what we're talking about. We are talking about the development of telecommunications, and our network, our service is still deep in the 20th century, and there is the investment problem of Croatia. When we talk about THT, we have to bear in mind that they collect from every 60 kuna connection for a telephone subscription per month, each year gives it for a little 100 euros, per million 100 thousand connections in Croatia annually, it means approximately 100 million euros a year. For 100m euros, everyone in Croatia can get an optical cable to their home, but they never did. Instead, they try to get out of the existing infrastructure in all the nice ways, from the existing wires to the maximum, and that's the fact. So what do we do? We do this to liberalise the telecommunications market, but it won't be there until it liberalizes access to telecommunication channels. That's why last year we from our club launched a debate in the DTK Parliament that ended in a really unusual way, which is that the government claimed that the DTK issue was resolved, but that temporary solutions would still be given until it was resolved. So, what's solved isn't. One after another, cities make a decision that DTK is theirs. This was first brought by Split, after which Varazdin, so Zaprešić, and so on Zagreb, soon Osijek will do so if not also Hvar, etc., etc. The goal is therefore to liberalise the DTK approach. Unfortunately, from DTK in this report, there's almost no mention, and it's actually about the key thing. You can't even develop a mobile phone if you can't pull a fiber to those towers. You can't do optical imitations with anything because it really ensures the fastest transmission of a telecommunications signal. Of course it's worth it. But obviously, HT doesn't want to do it. It is obvious that they are coughing for others because even in Germany their power plant Deutsche Telecom loses 60 thousand subscribers per month, simply because they cannot keep up with competition. It is therefore up to us, on the one hand, to encourage cities to work as much as possible on the development of urban municipal networks, urban optical networks, to liberalise their approach to DTK and thus ensure the development of telecommunications. Just like that. All last year, so she went through a fight about what she was or whose DTK she was? We have repeatedly claimed that DTK is owned by the local self-government, or owned by the person whose property it is located on. And it's just for real estate unity. Everything else is actually aggravating the existing state. We expected the agency to make a rule on the use of DTK, but there's no such rule. This Regulation is simply needed in order to avoid situations where certain operators are already located in certain DTK cities, in the cable sewerage, we see the possibility of picking up a new lock to fill the budget. The purpose was not to enable DTK, a new phrase for budget filling, but to liberalise the DTK while the city assumes responsibility for maintaining telecommunications channels under the same conditions in all Croatian cities if possible. But those terms of use of the telecommunications sewerage were supposed to be prescribed by the agency, but she didn't. The agency did not, unfortunately, respond properly in two other cases, which I also warned about on a written basis. One thing was the takeover of Iskon by HT, where I asked on behalf of our club to confiscate those concessions that he won as an independent company. Because when it became part of the HT, of course, it automatically became an operator with significant market power, because it leans on complete HT and can no longer be talked about Iskon as a small company. The reactions to this all together were very unmistakable and very stupid. And even the Competition Protection Agency reacted very inappropriately by withdrawing from its responsibility for the low level of that transaction, the low amount. The second situation in which the agency reacted very inadequately, to be polite, was when the VIP showed up with home boxing. None of us argue that it is something that in some way liberalises the market for telecommunications. The VIP simply realized that since the third generation of mobile phones in Croatia, there is almost nothing, that the third-generation cell phone concession for the mobile network has been granted, but that the phone of this type in Croatia simply does not exist. At the same time, it gave them the opportunity to provide all users with wireless Internet, so that they offer all these Croatian citizens a fixed cell phone tied to a table in the form of VIP home box. But it is, of course, a deception, because when the first too many citizens were connected to the same tower, the quality of the service automatically falls. However, the VIP therefore raised another topic on which there was never a speech in this report, not even in the previous one. And that's the price ratio for calling from fixed to mobile line and mobile to fixed. You know what this is about? All the countries of Europe and so on, Croatia encouraged a year after year of mobile companies so it cost you three times the first call, the first minute standing from fixed to mobile than from mobile to fixed. So if you called from a fixed-line cell phone, that terming call was 90 lips and it was around 30 lips. The VIP offered to connect to its home box difference not 1:3 but 1:9 which in itself showed that there is still a large reserve in prices. The agency was then to simply force all other operators to make the difference as much as possible. Unfortunately, she didn't do it. But she did not warn of any other problem that remained hidden, which is that all operators in Croatia have kept such a big difference from fixed to mobile compared to mobile calls to fixed ones for years. And while they were doing it in Europe to subsidize a mobile machine out of these calls, so the phones were cheaper with them, and they put that money in our pocket, putting it in the company's profits, and the phones were insanely expensive. It was only recently when the market opened up to competition that mobile prices began to fall. But no one answered how much kuna and euro was actually crushed in this interphase that actually explains why it was terribly profitable and why it was so clever to deal with mobile telephony in Croatia? Unfortunately, there is no mention of these answers in this report. Of course Croatia needs important offensives to reduce telecommunications services and... says absurd data published a few weeks ago in one of our daily lists, which is that hospitals in Croatia pay more telecommunications services than cleaning costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It really shocked me, and in itself it says how unsustainable the situation is, that the state is therefore really obliged in every way and through the agency to go to as much liberalisation as possible of Telekom services. That cities owe one after another, it is no longer a make-up, that they are obliged to enter this system of digital cities, to lay down urban optical networks and to reduce the telecommunications services of all public services, and thus the hospital within them, that the state is obliged sooner or later to consider whether it is reasonable to stand and fully uncoordinated use of optical networks and DTK systems by Croatian railways, Croatian highways, HEP and ANAF. Well, it all stands unused or is given in a concession under very unusual circumstances, instead of uniting it, offers on the market and thereby contributes to further liberalisation of Telekom services. So none of this, unfortunately, was even here. And for those reasons, we will be abstentioned in voting on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88373	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Milan Meden. Here you go. Excuse me, there's a correction to Mr. Walter Poirot's incorrect claim. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a distinguished colleague, Tonci Tadic, probably said in his debate that the subscription is 60 kuna. It's 60 kuna subscription if you're a user of T-HT. If you're a user of another network, then it's a subscription of 80 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88375	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Madden.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88376	Mr. President-in-Office of the Agency, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, in front of the two clubs here was indeed quite a heated debate, but I am sure that this debate is actually a mess because the telecommunications market of Croatia is difficult about 17 billion kunas, compared to the Croatian budget that is good 17% and I believe that this is one of the main reasons perhaps because we are talking here in this way. At the same time, I will remind you of a very distant history or anniversary of 120 years, in fact recently celebrated in Zagreb since the establishment of the first public telephone station in Zagreb when the headship of the city of Zagreb with the then Ministry of Communications was somehow awarded as the most important bidder a concession for a public telephone station that worked on 1 January 1887 and then 80,000 and 300 users were included in Zagreb, respectively, who on average had 80 conversations a day. I would like to say that it was only 9 years after the imaginary phone or the first telephone public centre was installed in the United States and this trend of modern telecommunications and today it is present on the Croatian telecom market and indeed something ahead of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is indeed. Otherwise, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in 2006 certainly actively participated in the liberalisation of the Croatian market in its activities, and the HAT enabled the creation of equal and transparent conditions for all new operators and service providers, so I stress to all operators who currently have three in the mobile network, in a fixed network I think more than ten or even fourteen. And as the colleague now had a correction of the incorrect assumption, so it is true that all these competitors today have the right to compete on equal terms and we have heard that some operators have more expensive subscription than I call it here seems to me to Croatian Telecom. Therefore, the role of the HAT in this case is highly regulated and contributes to the full regulation of the Croatian telecom market. In the opinion of the European Commission, a stable regulatory... a framework with a satisfactory level, i.e. with the Agency for Telecommunications and the Information Office or the Central State Office for E Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to other Southeast European countries, the telecommunications sector has been highly developed according to many indicators. The liberalisation or formal elimination of the monopoly was carried out in all segments of that market and the share of ownership in the future telecommunications company, therefore, is less than 50% today, and therefore, in that sense, it is certainly not leading because it has a majority of ownership but because it is in an adequate manner now in the position of the former monopoly but it is perfectly open to all doors under the same conditions but I also stress that the problem of investment is. Therefore, it is impossible to be a big player in a relatively medium or regional market unless there are enough investment investments. When we talk about data like I heard about prices here today, prices are equal in Croatia both in fixed and mobile networks compared to other countries in this part of Europe or region, or even if we talk about Europe 25 but there is another problem actually which in Croatia means calculated per capita gross domestic product calculated by the quality of purchasing power of $12,000 while it is like that in the European Union 28 thousand and 100 dollars. From that point of view, we can discuss the price but the market is therefore open globally and is no longer a monopoly competition. When we talk about mobile telephony that currently participates in the Croatian market somewhere with about 60% of the income, so around 8 billion kuna, it has reached 100 connections, meaning 100% of the connections to the population or means every resident of the Republic of Croatia has more than one monopoly, more than one mobile phone actually. This only proves that the Croatian telecoms market is mature, that it has entered a single stage when more competitors will not be able to reach the users with cheap products but actually with an extra value, with a special offer with special tariff prices and I hold that Croatia's telecommunications agencies in this area have actually made a major step in awarding the third concession to Tele2 operator, which to this day has taken about 8% of the market. I believe that it was the right agencies, we know how many barrels were in this house because of it, and I even think it's impelation or subsequent speeches about the third concession. But in any case, here, the agency was reasonable to award a concession to an operator who was capable, meaning that he was not political, who, with his knowledge but above all, reached 8% of the market in a year. For this reason, the agency must have contributed to the development of the Croatian mobile market. When we talk about a fixed network compared to a regional network, the Croatian telecommunications network to a fixed network is certainly more advanced than its neighbours. For what? Because the fixed network that is presented today is complete digital, because there are no more duplicates, because 4 have already crossed over the generation of ATMs, or the most advanced technologies and is practically ready to reach the optical infrastructure of the house, or... As long as we don't fool ourselves here we need significant investments, but nobody stands in the way and competes with Croatian Telecom like Metromet or Optime to make their investments because they have a concession to contribute to the full development of a broadband network of fixed telephony in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course things don't happen overnight here or in other things, I stress, because other than knowledge needed and great investment. At this moment in Croatia there are about 250 thousand DSL connections which are therefore presented here and raised through DSL one extract of the grantovnica lasts less than a second, or it seems to me to be raising order for a few seconds. And in that case, the door is open to the entire competition to contribute to this full development of a wide-ranging information network. In this regard, the Croatian government has adopted a 12%-to-end raise strategy. Of course, some European countries already in the European Union, and we are not at 32%. So our plan is 12%. As long as one of the Netherlands is at 60% today. So it is not true that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency can deliver such programmes overnight. Responsibility is also for those who have a concession. Responsibilities must be regulated at the agency as well. Not to allow discrimination on the market. And when we talk about DTK or the distribution network for telecommunications, the agency actually took over on October 1st of last year, after a public debate was held where all the competitors were involved, they took responsibility for the joint use of this telecommunications infrastructure. Therefore, the Agency may issue a decision on the use that replaces the contract in the case where the owner is not established or if the owner here may refuse to enter into a service contract. According to the Agency's report last year, only 10 requests from October to the end of the year were all necessary 10 times to arbitrate what is minor compared to media. In relation to perhaps the politicisation of this case because this means that the agency only 10 times on 32 shares had to arbitration between the owners and certain competitors. What does that really mean? This means that through political pranks or media marketing certain competitors want to create a significant material benefit in such a way that they do not, absolutely nor pay the rent of this sewer no matter who owns it or that perhaps overnight owners would like to become those who have not invested a single kuna. Here's the real truth. As I heard here today in fact the report "Global Information Social Watch" for 2007 which was presented yesterday in Geneva by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency gave a certain minus that there is not enough independence and knowledge to control the market. However, this Agency has actively participated in the process of accession of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, particularly in the process of deep analysis and harmonisation of legislation. What does that really mean? It means that the agency should continue to strengthen human potential next year. But forgive me, this is not only the task of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency but also of all the state administrations and Croatian society as a whole because that state that has strong human potential is also highly competitive that we must recognise this moment in Croatia is not the most brilliant side. But we all have to work together on it. And from that point of view, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88377	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88378	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. My predecessors who spoke, I will join them when they say this debate is happening at the wrong time. We know that this is a very interesting debate for all our citizens and for all the users of telecommunications services, and we also know that phone bills are increasing from month to month and that in most cases we are actually bigger than the Croatian electricity bill. I don't want to talk about the water and everything else without which there's just no life. On the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia, there are still many things that need to be put in order. Among the first I would point out the protection of consumers. Dear colleagues, a TTT subscription of 80 kuna, if you are not a THT subscriber, if you are a THT subscriber, you pay a subscription of 60 kuna. I think it's more simply inadmissible. And this is what I want to say and make an appeal to Mr. President of the Council for the Croatian Telecommunications Agency to do everything possible for that subscription to be lifted. Secondly esteemed gentlemen, I myself have been working on my own connection to a fixed network. We were putting up pillars, digging canals, and putting in the same landing strip, and besides, we paid another 1500 then German marks for the phone number connection. So you tell me today whether we who did this job and who paid for the 1500-mark connection have a chance to be if nothing else is in the telecommunications market or THT. I think that would also be one of the jobs that this agency should consider and that we know what we're going to do in the future. Because let us not allow ourselves today in our democracy, in a democratic society that we cannot talk about it and what we have personally invested in something that we are very expensive to pay for today. As regards cable-distributive sewers or distribution telecommunications sewers. Not to say the hard words, I think we're very late with the decision on ownership. We all know that cities and municipalities have built together with their citizens a cable-distributive organization. And not only that, but later it was legal to place special pipes in the same cable-distribution channel, "alcaten" pipes "phi 50" and for cable-distributive television or satellite television that is accepted in one place and then distributed by cable channel to the connections in the house itself, and so did we, along with our cities and municipalities. And that's the key. Until this problem is solved, of course for the benefit of citizens, municipalities and cities, the problems will only be multipled and I hope that there will be more people in this assembly who will represent just like this or similar way of solving these problems as we propose most colleagues, Tonci Tadic and I. We need to ask this agency to make a regulation on the use of distributed telecommunications and that as soon as possible. As a regulator in the telecommunications market, this agency must also give a lot to protect consumers, not to mention that our speakers pay more telecommunications prices than users whose companies are based in some other countries do. And finally, not to repeat what my predecessors said the IDS club will take note of this report, but the vote will be held back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88379	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain who is not there. Then Mr. Ivan Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Telecommunications Agency, which is visible from the report both last year and its work in the regulation of the telecommunications sector, has created the basis for further efficiency in co-operation and a transparent relationship with all telecommunications market entities. The Agency continues the liberalisation of the telecommunications market with a view to a balance between the interests of the users and... the return of the operator's investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report shows that the Agency has sought to ensure and promote effective and sustainable competition with equal opportunities for all participants and to prevent abuse of a dominant position on the market. When I talk about the fixed-net services market, it is currently impossible to survive new operators, as well as an implementing and efficient regulator on the one hand and a serious and successful operator on the other. The market for services in mobile networks is the best example of how it can only be regulated, because that the market already shows the first signs of self-regulatory by entering a new TELE2 operator that has brought down prices, the diversity of tariff packages, both for business and private users, which is certainly the most important and important thing for us users, I would say most importantly. The agency has shown by its work so far that it is watching Croatian Telecom's moves regarding ISKON and other operators and that they have not yielded, and that they have not allowed any... on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the situation in the telecommunications market, income is seen to increase as much as our contribution to telephoning is, in 2004, 11 billion and 422 million, and in 2006, 13 billion 721 million, which is an increase of 5.45%. The main trends are the increase in traffic, i.e. the use of TK services are the decline in prices, and thus create better conditions for the economy and the population. So it's obvious that prices are falling, but incomes are growing as much as we use our phones either fixed or mobile. That Croatia has started to liberalise the market later but therefore the process is faster than the countries that have already entered the European Union. From services in a fixed network with a total of one million and eight hundred twenty-one thousand users, it is also visible to increase but not as much as in mobile phones. The reduction in public voice service prices over the last year is between 2.5 and 9.6. The price of the local call is lower than in the European Union countries, the price of the national call is lower than the average in the European Union countries, the price of the international call to the nearest countries is lower than the average of the European Union countries. The price of an international call to remote countries is 108% higher than in the European Union countries and that is let's say one good economic move by operators if we know that almost two more evicted Croatians are in over the ocean countries of Canada and America and Australia, and that is certainly what makes them that big profit that I just said earlier and certainly there is a need on the market for either a new concessionary or pressure from a shitty agency that even prices an international call to remote countries. As far as the Internet is concerned, the number of users is over one million and six eighty-four users. The share of HT in terms of total income is 70%. The number of users of broadband is 251800 which is 5.6% and I would agree with that comparison by my colleague Tadic because, unfortunately, I am one of the users of the slowest Internet because I do not have the ability to connect to these telecommunications better optical cables. So my transaction of one list of A4 takes about two minutes, and someone's two seconds, and then how many impulses I pay, and how much pay he's not for comparison, and the market should have all the same conditions. Services in mobile networks in Croatia 4 million 655 290 users or something more than Croatia has residents and I think it is compared to the most developed countries in Europe that we are certainly not behind them. So we have more mobile networks, mobile phones than we have residents. So in 100.6. The operator's participation is 52.2% and Croatia's VIP net 43 and TELE2 4.6. The reduction in public voice service prices is 1.3 to 17.7% and the average prices on our market are lower compared to the EU countries. What Mr. Gachin of the Agency pointed out, so did his colleagues. The biggest problem is the use of common infrastructure. Certainly, the objectives set by the Agency, the introduction of order, the promotion of joint use, ensure future development are indeed the goals to be achieved, which will be difficult to achieve. But the rule that has been pointed out by colleagues both Tadic and Poropat by using DTK is certainly what the priority is in making and if you ask me as a user, and also a man who's been in power for a long time, in a local self-government unit, I don't know what I would do right now, would you accept as mayor on the management of the DTK network, so also on maintenance or leave it to operators who are now using it. But given the way cables are made depending on which, to which units of local self-government or only contributions and contributions or own work are certainly units of local self-government that require them to manage these cables right. And 12 contracts have been concluded so far between local self-government and HT units on one side and the other on how to use the telecommunications network. From the sphere of protection of the users of the council, the Council of Users was established in early 2006, which is certainly commendable. It is good that the Council has chosen to display accounts, display risk numbers on websites, that a ban on outgoing calls to risk numbers has been introduced, that a limit on the account is allowed at the request of the user, of 500 kuna, that the protection of users is built in for the general conditions of providing TK services. The result is a decrease in advertising by 71%. And finally to conclude that as an independent national communications regulator, the Agency certainly justified its existence, that today we in Croatia have what we saw in Germany a few years ago that we have a phone for 1 euro or for 1 kuna, that everyone can telephone in every place in Croatia, that we need to pursue further. I'm sure he needs to work out that DTK Regulation as one. And I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88381	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleague Vukic, I believe that you, as you said you were mayor, are you, units of local self-government, when you spoke about ownership whether you would accept the DTK or not. What are we talking about? We're saying this exactly why cities like that can be involved and taken over by the ownership of distribution telecommunication channels because of the fact that things are not happening. I know that a big step has been taken over the past year, that certain agreements with THT and some units of local self-government have been signed and that these things have been improved. However, if you see that users of today's services 20 or 25 years ago themselves took part in the installation of cables, in the setting of columns, in the solving and digging of channels and in the setting of land in these channels, that they bought a thousand 500 marks then one subscription number. ... Somewhere in a thousand 650, there you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I believe that on this very trail we have the opportunity to open a debate about these people who did this being shareholders of what's going to be sold tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88383	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it's Madam Representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will also get very briefly involved in this extremely interesting topic although it looks only highly professional and these some of course purely professional things that I can't say so much as those concerning the essence of every home budget in the Republic of Croatia. Because given the number of phones, especially mobiles that are increasing, of course, it concerns all of us individually, as well as societies in general and states, of course, as the one that organises the situation in that area. I must say, therefore, that this agency is very short-acting and it is something new on the Croatian market for telecommunications. She also performed her post or at least trying to do as she best knows, that she was only in the team, that 90 experts could hardly handle these strong demands, that the number of items the agency has handled in different areas is impressive. And there he can't say that these people are active. We can only talk about some of the general problems that the agency has inherited along with all of us, which may be the result of the wrong or bad decisions of the former governments, as well as the unknowns of the contract signed with the current monopoly recently on this market, which, in some ways, is in a more privileged position if we are talking about Deutsche Telekom, who owns Croatian Telecom in fixed telephony. Because, of course, by signing contracts that were guaranteed that phone subscription, we basically put someone else in a privileged position by having a deadline that was not originally extended in the contract, so there's nothing to say and object to the agency. So the agency has only found such a state that it cannot change on its own. So we can still talk today about whether or not Croatian telecommunications should have been sold. I'm one of those guys who was in the sales commission one day in '97. And today I'm getting more and more sure by watching every new report that we shouldn't have sold it. Because 17 billion kunas trafficked on the Croatian market would be welcome to the Croatian state, the profits would remain in Croatia. And we have enough and then we have experts and minds that are building other telecommunications around the world today, and then they could stay in Croatia and live and work as well. So with this increased attention ever since and with this firm belief that everything that can remain in Croatian hands remains. I'm going to say, just like the former head of local self-government, that I'm firmly on the stand that local self-government can take over, it doesn't have to rule it, it can charge a concession fee to use cables and very simply solve what used to be called social property, or that we're all as residents of the former system, of course somewhere less, somewhere there were a thousand 500 marks, but somewhere dear friends 30 and a few years ago there were 3,000 then. So there was a lot more, depending on the configuration of the terrain, the number of subscribers, the kind of embedded material, that I'm not doing any research. So people feel that, and I'm going to say that it's the same as what happens and in the distribution of electricity, so there's also these waterways and other similar things, so something that people think is not just their property, their own pain they've been building in their country, and I don't think the agency should have dilemmas and in this case it should be careful that these relationships are being solved, but when it's definitely decided to side with most of the citizens who think as well as I do, so I'm going to be able to pass on their voice, and I don't think it has anything to do with any foreigning, but it's just one thing to say from technical questions, and then the question of the possibility of performing certain functions. So, here it is visible that this year the number of fixed users, fixed telephonies, to increase the number of mobile phones, and so we can talk in mobile telephony about competition and in the well-being that comes to us, which is why with the increasing number of bidders we have a growing price, we have an increasing speed of ability to carry our own or voice or written messages, and we also have these solutions, so in place, the classic monthly fees that remain in fixed telephone, we do not have that, but we have one amount that we can actually spend as a credit, so maybe there are consumers every day flooded with new offers, new types of services and can really choose there, although I have to say that often average consumers are harder and are able to find themselves in this whole offer, that maybe they should be helped by this agency, so besides of course of media and negative articles, because there are witnesses and in other areas that we are not good news, so let be done. So, in order for this agency to deserve a little more media support, to promote its activity and positively through the media, so that people have the opportunity to turn to that agency when something is in doubt. I must say, therefore, that I am speaking about consumer protection, we must say that this year consumer protection is in Croatia, among other things, that consumers of all kinds of products and services and of all models should be protected. I've had a problem since we discussed the Consumers Act with numbers 060, so I'm asking Mr. Gachin, so I'm going to use this topic to finally get anywhere, the consumer is alone, the parents and us as citizens where it's going to be solved, but it can't be solved anywhere or transferred the ball from one to another. So, I wanted the protection of advertisers, i.e. consumers, to be resolved in a way that the owner of a company used with a service of 060, which is advertised in the printed media, to open "Evening" you will see the flood in this case of pornographic ads, but you have ads of the type of credit, the type of fake employment where you need to give participation, i.e. cheating on people in all areas, so that the companies that use 060 and advertise these services and the possibility of paying to that number are legitimateized. Therefore, it must be known to the advertiser to the user, i.e. the concessionaire, whether this company pays taxes to this State, whether this company has a regulated company of any crafts, whether or not d.o.o. any form, domestic activity, but it can't be an illegal activity at the expense of the citizens. I won't say what happens when a child sees such an ad first untasteful, any name of that number, so for minutes, it's being raised badly and all the consequences that I'm not talking about naive citizens who come into loans, who pay for business. So, please, can't happen to send a letter from the Ministry of Economy to the Agency, the agency says it's not our problem, the ministry says it can't be in this law, I'm asking you to agree together to put it through me in all the laws. So, to put 060 numbers in place as these drug dealers have put themselves under control to put those 060 numbers under control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88385	Thank you. At 18 and 10, it's past time to report. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's only one way I'd like to confirm what my colleague Ivana was saying about how many citizens were involved in the construction of the network. According to data I have some 15 years ago, the income of the Croatian forests was far higher than the income of the telecoms. Today, the situation is reversed even though the forests are cut evenly, and while the income of the telecoms seems to me to be 7.8 times larger. So, and... what the citizens have funded has happened is that the revenues of telecoms are higher and therefore I appeal and to help the agency, to introduce competition, that as many operators as possible can be used by that network, and in this way we will probably get then and far lower prices of this paying impulse, and in this way we want to confirm what the colleague just said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88387	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Ivana Judge, Trakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88388	If I wanted to joke then I would tell Mr. Ledinski that competition should then be introduced in the Croatian forests, so it might be lower prices, that you planted a little more and cut less, and then they would then harvest the fruits. But please, that's not the answer. I agree, therefore, that the profit is unexpectedly high, that no one expected that everyone in Croatia would want to have these phones in particular and that it is for one social analysis of the general state in our society. So we come into a situation where people, I look at people from poorer families, have nothing to eat to say, and they have a cell phone that costs them dearly, and it's not used exclusively for positive things, but to say all kinds of stupid things. Here in this sense we act in a way that is richer than we are. So very unreasonable and very badly we spend hard-earned money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88389	We have another replica, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Justice Trakostanec, if I understood correctly, and you were the head of the local self-government unit and you said you would accept ownership on the telecommunications sewer, right? And you said, among other things, that you would give these cables to a concession. Probably cable sewers because the cables are owned by the service provider. But I wanted to say when you said the agency couldn't do much in that field because that big problem was inherited. We don't expect, I don't expect the agency to do I don't know what. The Agency is a regulatory body and, as such, it can very much regulate and make proposals to this Parliament that certain things will be resolved so that those users who once bought and made that sewerage come to be if nothing at least the shareholders of THT.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88391	Answer, Mrs. Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88392	Yes, sir, my colleague, I agree with you, so we'll probably talk about this problem again and again here, but I'd just like to remind you that the agency planted its back when it took over in accordance with Article 22 from October 1st of last year. The Telecommunications Law of care as it could be and what it is in accordance with the law that simply these disputes, which are a smaller number, are almost gone, until a definitive ownership issue is resolved, to allow users to have these services painlessly, without interruption. It's obvious that, I'm not going to read it now because the report makes it clear, the agency how much the problem could have been temporarily solved. I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88393	Thank you. And as last in the debate, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88394	Here, we've heard a lot today, just a few words. Well, here's the thing, offered with a gentleman's debate, colleagues actually Tadic that actually local self-government by taking over DTK wants to make a big profit, I don't think that's the case. I talked to a number of colleagues and colleagues from local self-government and they claim that the aim of liberalising the DTK network is actually to create strong competition and just profit through that competition. Because the fact that the money that was paid earlier to participate in the development of the network is certainly never going to be able to be, will not be returned. Here, as far as I'm concerned, here's a colleague who says 06060. The agency will hardly be able to regulate this, to whom do you sell, what? Here, I can tell my colleague that the team should deal with heat grids, because it's hot lines, and then it's an agency. Okay, that's enough. I just wanted to say a few things. I note that it began as we expected that the coordination procedures for radio stations started and co-ordination from, say, BiH, Hungary and Italy, Slovenia, etc., but in particular BiH, Italy and Slovenia are interesting here. There's a lot of interference between our radio stations. And right in that coordination, we expect that, in fact, there's going to be a alignment, so we would just have a quality. It is good that the agency immediately started and with the coordination of international coordination again and with others about analogue and digital TV networks because we need to be really in progress. This time, I say Austria, clear from the neighbors. And what should be commended to the agency, I see that a huge number of cases have been solved. Here, 9 grand 200 says 69 license applications, over 92% solved. Clearly, with the additional effort and the search engines that have to provide the documentation, more will be resolved. There are a number of administrative and irregular objects that actually surprised me, more than 24,000, which must require a great deal of effort. As far as these other things are concerned, I wouldn't agree with my previous colleagues and colleagues, but on that second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88395	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Gaspar Gachina on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88396	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just telegraphically look at some things that I think should be said from this place, that just don't stand. As regards the distribution of telecommunications sewerage, the agencies as a regulatory body under the Telecommunications Act are not responsible for the resolution of ownership relations but to encourage joint use and to introduce order. I also think it's a very good suggestion to make a rule. However, we have made a guide to the use of distribution telecommunications sewers. We will initiate the creation of an appropriate regulation signed by the minister. However, this was about stealing other people's capacities at night most often, over the weekend, and therefore, there is also work for municipal redistribution with which we have established cooperation, for the Police and for the Telecommunications Inspectorate. So we're not running away from our share of responsibility, but only together can we solve it. As for the famous what's-his-name... I read the original, I'm sorry I don't have it here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Journalist Gataric, if that is worth mentioning at all, did not translate the original well and does not appear in the source that the agency is unprofessional. I think you should say that. As far as the Iskon HT acquisitions are concerned. Last year, when the 2005 Report was submitted, I was asked, although it was not part of the 2005 Report and I said, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency is not responsible for the takeover, it is the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition. However, I said and we kept it that we would declare Iskon an operator with a common... Market power and thus prevent abuse in form... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the price and abuse of a superior position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we did. I also promised that we would take the concession for Weimax in Zagreb County. And that's what we did. Therefore, we have dealt very actively and effectively with the consequences of this takeover. As far as home boxing is concerned, it was really one delicate thing and we shared that responsibility with the Resort Ministry and the Telecommunications Inspector. Why? Because on the one hand we didn't know where to place home box according to existing laws and sublaws. However, as unpopular as it is to wait with a solution, I think we have found an optimal solution, because home box represents an abundance of offers on the Croatian Telecommunications Market and a ban on home boxing would mean punishing users. On the other hand, on the principle of non-discrimination, the VIP is net. An operator with a significant market power in interconnection and interconnection, in the legalisation of home boxing, we have prescribed a VIP net obligation to provide access services to other operators. And thirdly, as regards prices, we will share this responsibility with the Market Competition Protection Agency, which assesses these prices in terms of correctness and possible price cuts. As for the compliance agreement that caused the great surprise of the esteemed representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain, I would like to say that I participated in the process and that it lasted more than two months. The Treaty on the Harmonisation of the concession agreement was to be concluded by 10 months 2003 under the Telecommunications Act which is still in force. The Telecommunications Agency and I, as a signator, have taken the obligation to give, that we will issue all the permits as well as all other users without any exclusive rights. And with this harmonisation of the contract, all exclusive rights have ceased to Croatian telecommunications, and that controversial article on the collection of funds, the billing and will be settled with the Rules of Payments made by the ministry. Therefore, no exclusive rights with this compliance agreement will be any more. So I didn't sign anything under my nose. I've worked very seriously on it, and I'm proud of it. As for the questions and objections of the respected representative, Toncia Tadica homeboxes, I think I've done a little bit. I think that these are more or less all the topics that are repeated and I was very glad that I had the opportunity, thank you, to explain these things that absolutely do not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88397	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are going to the annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency with the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2006. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of the regulation of the telecommunications market in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is accepted. Please vote. The result? For 66. Abstention 5. Against 10. I find that with most votes this conclusion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88400	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So here's the Biocidal Products Act before us. Just give me a word, two. In December 2005 we proposed and here is the Croatian Parliament adopted the Chemical Act, a law which for the first time for the first time in its integrity therefore settled amongst others certain issues related to biocidal products. However, in accordance with European practice and the implementation of a whole series of directives, there is, therefore, a clear need for the system of biocidal products to be fully regulated and governed by private law, and this was precisely the main reason why we approached the draft and, of course, made this law. What are biocidal products? These are preparations containing one or more active substances. They are designed to destroy, prevent or influence harmful organisms in a chemical or biological way. There's always a question of what it is. Well, one of the classic examples of biocidal products is repellents of protective agents that we defend against mosquitoes and any other intruders. What does this law bring? In the first place, it shall also organise mutual recognition of approval among the Member States of the European Union. Namely, for any biocidal product that is authorised by a competent authority in a particular country, this means that it is actually placed on the market and actually used, that the same practical authorisation in the country in which imports can be used is, of course, justified by some national reasons that it can be authorised and denied. What is also important to say is that there is a specificity of the law and that is the principle of appropriate evaluation. This is based on the principle that all biocidal products are more or less harmful which is always actually formed by one separate register and, of course, the priority is that each of these preparations must be replaced if they come to the market or there is a less harmful agent, so that less harmful comes to the site of the one proven more harmful. And the third is actually an item that is extremely significant, which is that the law pays special attention to the proper use of biocidal products especially those that are classified as dangerous, and these are those that are very toxic, toxic, carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction. Here, this was very short. I repeat, it is one law that has implemented the whole of the European Union Directive and here is the proposed law, therefore, fully in line with the European Union's rules, another contribution to bring Croatian legislation in line with the legislation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88401	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88402	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 73rd session of the Committee held on 16 May 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 19 April 2007. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the proposing representative informed the Committee of the reasons for the adoption of this law. During law enforcement and about chemicals that first... certain issues related to biocidal products have shown the need to regulate the placing on the market and control of biocidal products by special law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would also facilitate the transposition of the provisions of the European Parliament's Directive on biocidal products into Croatian legislation. During a brief discussion, board members supported the adoption of this law. The opinion is expressed that all biocidal products are to a lesser or greater extent harmful and that it is necessary to seek to remove harmful substances as quickly as possible or replace them with less harmful biocidal products. After a brief discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Biocidal Preparations Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88403	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88404	We have one amendment for that, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as an interested working body. In its discussion on the Committee, it is pointed out that Article 2(1)(11) of the concept: placing on the market is defined as any supply to a third party either with or without payment of the related storage, of course, other than the storage for exports outside the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or with the disposal of waste. It has been indicated that such a defined concept could be interpreted as a delivery to a third party for disposal to waste and the Committee has proposed an amendment which deletes the text or the disposal to waste. The applicant's representative agreed with the proposed amendment to the Committee. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Biocidal Products Act together with the following amendment: Article 2 of point 11 of the bracket puts the point and the words "or disposal in waste" are deleted. Recital: that point 11 specifies that the notion of placing on the market within the meaning of this law implies each delivery to a third party either with or without compensation and the related storage or disposal of waste. Since such a defined notion of placing on the market could also be interpreted as a delivery to a third party for the disposal of waste, it is proposed to delete the text or waste disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88405	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Biocidal products are preparations containing one or more active substances and are used as means of destroying and preventing the effects of harmful organisms. They're used in communal hygiene and we can bring them down under a common denominator of 4D, meaning disinfection, disinfection, deratization and deodorization. Biocidals are further listed as means of maintaining personal hygiene, for example, for the protection of materials, such as the walls of the house from fungi and other intruders, wood from different pests. Then the group includes funds to destroy harmful fish, birds, etc. Plant protection products are not included in biocidal products. In general, biocidal products are harmful to a lesser or greater extent. It is therefore necessary to seek to remove the harmful substance as quickly as possible, i.e. replace it with less harmful biocidal products. If we keep that in mind, we realize that we need to approach everything that applies to biocidal products and their use with extreme caution and caution. The European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted Directive 98/8/EC on 16 February 1998 known as the Biocidal Products Directive. The main intention of adopting this Directive was to create a single legal framework that regulates all aspects of the placing on the market of biocidal products with the purpose of primarily ensuring a high level of safety for human health and the environment. But also enable the proper functioning of the common European market. The Directive is a comprehensive document governing both the registration process and the placing on the market of biocidal products, mutual recognition and registration within the European Union and establishing a positive list of active substances for biocidal products. The Chemical Act incorporates a dozen provisions that can be interpreted as an attempt to comply with the Biocidal Products Directive. Given the complexity and sensitivity of the substance related to biocidal products, it is good to approach the development of a special law that would elaborate this issue in detail. In this way, we will facilitate the transposition of Directive 98/8EC into national legislation and allow it to be applied better. In doing so, not only should the text of the directive be mechanically incorporated into our laws, but it is far more important to enable it to be implemented and to provide for all favourable and adverse impacts on human and environmental health, as well as economic and market flows in the country in this segment. It is not all of you to remind you that the right to a healthy life is one of the fundamental rights of every man, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states, among other things, that the preservation of nature and human environment is one of the greatest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is the state that needs to ensure conditions for a healthy environment where economic interests must be subject to the protection of human health and the protection of the environment. The Biocidal Products Act regulates the placing on the market and use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of procedures for the inclusion of active substances in the list of active substances authorised for use in biocidal products, the evaluation of biocidal products, the examination of their effectiveness, and the supervision of the implementation of this law, and all with a basic objective of protecting human life and health, and environmental protection. Another issue is regulated by this law, which is mutual recognition of the authorisation to place biocidal products on the market in the European Union. Namely, Directive 98/8/EC has been established that if the competent authority of a Member State of the European Union, either in accordance with a complete procedure or in the light of a shortened procedure, the authorisation for placing on the market and the use of a biocidal product by the competent authorities of other Member States is required to recognise that authorisation. In practice, this means that for each biocidal product for which the competent authority of one Member State has granted approval, the competent authority of another Member State is obliged to recognise and issue a licence. If we keep in mind that we live in a world where unfortunately, often the interest of capital is first, and its strength and power are so great that all other arguments lose meaning, if we look at this provision of the directive from that point of view, then it is clear that we have a question of what it will mean for Croatia when one day we become a full member of the European Union. Whether in certain cases Croatia will then be forced to allow the use of certain biocidal products that are not suitable and desirable in this area. We know very well that Croatia, unlike many developed countries of Europe and the world, is still to be said to be clean, i.e. it is still relatively unpolluted when it comes to different chemical or biological means and that is our advantage that we are obliged to safeguard and preserve. And that's why this provision is causing a certain suspicion and caution. However, there is the possibility of an exception, i.e. the possibility of the authorisation being denied, in cases where there are justified national reasons for this, such as: if there is no harmful organism to which the biocidal product operates, environmental specificity, specific climate conditions. Therefore, it is now up to us, or to the competent authorities, to implement the provisions of this law, that they have sufficient knowledge and wisdom to properly assess which preparations will be applied in Croatia and which will not. That is why we at the SDP Club have certain objections to Article 33. It is said in Article 33(2) that where the conditions of use of the biocidal product are clearly different from those in the Member State of the European Union in which the authorisation for a particular biocidal product is granted and where the unaltered authorisation could pose an unacceptable risk to human, animal or environmental health. The Minister may establish amendments to the approvals relating to the time and method of use, etc. Not to quote the whole article. This item should be formulated by the minister, not by the minister. We believe that there is no question about the use of the word can be used in legislative regulations, because it can mean that something can be done. But it also doesn't have to or should not be done. In the legal provisions, the statement should be clear and should not leave the dilemmas and possibilities of dual interpretation. It should be clearly indicated that it is the obligation of the competent authority to be responsible for the possible non-compliance of that obligation, and it may certainly not be in that function. Furthermore, Article 33(3) reads: "The Minister may temporarily refuse mutual recognition of the authorisation given by another member of the European Union under a reduced procedure." This article does not make it clear what this means: "It can temporarily refuse". How long is that temporary? What, then, will this temporary refusal depend on, and what follows? Is there a permanent refusal of mutual recognition of approval? These are all questions that are raised and to which the article in Article 33(3) does not provide an answer. I note once again that it is very important that Croatia has as much influence as possible and control over all those means that will be used and used in this space and therefore the provisions of this law should be clear and unequivocal in order not to leave the possibility of different interpretations. The same observation refers to Article 27, which reads: "If there is a reasonable doubt that a biocidal product authorised in the procedure or a shortened procedure or biocidal product in the market procedure poses an unacceptable risk to humans, animals or the environment, the minister may temporarily prohibit or restrict the placing on the market or use of that preparation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the term "temporary" is not clear. How long will this temporary situation take? On what basis will the Minister change his decision? In addition, if there is a reasonable doubt that a particular preparation poses an unacceptable threat to people, animals or the environment, the minister must and cannot restrict or prohibit its placing on the market. Article 35(3) should also be written: the Minister will amend or withdraw the emergency authorisation if the biocidal product has not achieved the desired results. If you don't need it anymore. Or if the harmful consequences of its use are greater than the damage that a harmful organism may cause. So the minister will do it rather than formulate, he can leave an opportunity to choose whether or not, in such cases, an extraordinary approval will change or take away. Because I remind you of a basic principle that should be guided when making a decision whether to place a preparation on the market or not. This is the principle of "the more effective and the less damage to people, the organisms that do not belong to the target organisms and to the environment." And as the proposer states in the opening section, the clear objective of the appropriate evaluation is to remove harmful substances more quickly or replace the less harmful biocidal products. That is why words such as "can", "temporary" have no place in this law. Of course, there is a question and responsibilities of the users themselves. Whether they are followed by instructions for use which must be given with the preparation itself or on the declaration in order to protect not only their health but the health and life of other persons, and in order not to cause adverse effects on human, animal or environmental health by their actions and activities. The use of biocidal products should be limited to a minimum. All this is beautifully written, but now the question is also who will control whether the provisions of Article 6 are actually implemented? And to be more specific. The law defines that inspection of the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted under this law are carried out by sanitary inspectors of the Ministry and sanitary inspectors of the Office of State Administration in the Countys and City Office of the City of Zagreb. So the question should be asked not who will control it but whether sanitary inspectors will be able to effectively exercise control or whether we have enough, whether they are well equipped and well equipped to be more present on the ground. Because in order for a law to be effective in practice, it is very important to control its application. After all, we have often had the opportunity to hear that we in Croatia have good laws but the bad application of these same laws in practice. Thus, Article 49 states: "The legal and natural persons who place biocidal products on the market must ensure conditions that prevent or reduce the risk to human health, animal health and the environment and guarantee the replacement of dangerous biocidal products less dangerous. However, no penalties are provided for in respect of this provision of the law. So it all comes down to trust, or we believe that legal and physical persons will respect what the law requires them to do. Knowing us, I'm not sure that's exactly how it's gonna be without the use of fines. This law is the framework on which the minister will adopt regulations that will further regulate a series of very important issues such as the Regulation establishing a list of active substances. Then the rules on documentation for the assessment of the active substance in biocidal products, the procedure for the assessment of biocidal products and their use, and so on, do not list any further. I note that the design of these regulations should pay full attention to ensuring that they are applied in practice to ensure that these products are fully applied to ensure the safety of human, animal and environmental health. Finally, we believe that the proposer will take note of the comments made in this debate today and will install them in the bill so that the final version of the law on biocidal products will be as high-quality as possible. And the SDP Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88407	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88408	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with a few commendations first. I meant two, but I'll do three. First of all, I commend the minister who personally came to the assembly to defend this bill, which is a very rare phenomenon. Less than 5% of the law defends personally ministers, which is not statistically significant. Another commendation goes to the expense of one of the constituency committees. It's our Legislative Committee. They've slightly ruined the artistic impression today, and now they're not coming for this pay phone, but they're very correct on two pages, and they're very specific about me, and I'd say every article of this bill, and I really have to say that I agree with all their suggestions. They made suggestions to supplement, amend, correct the text in Articles 2, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 22, 23, 27, 37, 40, and 65. That's how it's supposed to be done. And I also think that I hope that the minister and legislators will respect all these remarks along with the remarks that we have just heard from my colleague, Martic, whose third commendation goes to. I didn't know she'd talk before I did. I didn't know that in such a complete, professional and quality way they would explain everything about biocidal products. Much better than the legislator did. When reading this proposal and the reasoning of the law, it is practically impossible to understand what biocidal products are, what they are for, how they are shared, and so on. She has just shown how it should be done, so colleague Martic here is a special commendation and you have shortened my obligation to enter a detailed analysis related to the introduction of this law. So I'd like to continue with a few additional suggestions, think, and my proposal will be eventually to say right away that this law goes to another reading, because of some pretty big failures. First, I want to underline everything that has already been said about the importance of this law. He's a very significant law. Unfortunately, here we are late for a European Union directive for 10 years. New biologically active substances used as biocides are constantly emerging on the market. This is necessary because it creates resistance to the existing, it is necessary because some of the existing very toxic substances are so looking for derivatives that are less toxic, less harmful to the environment and human health of course. But what is important is the lack of this law is the fact that almost nothing is said about biocidal products when they are not chemical agents but biological agents, e.g. Virus, almost nothing on that segment. My third observation is that here, however, something more should be said about the very mechanism of action of these biocidal products. They usually work on certain structures of these harmful organisms that we want to eliminate or certain functions, the metabolic pathways of these harmful organisms. However, there are many similar organisms in nature by structure, especially organisms that use the same metabolic pathways. So you will not only have a harmful effect on a clearly harmful organism that we want to eliminate but also on all of those useful organisms that, for reasons of similarity by structure or function, are also clearly covered by the action of chemical or biological substances. What I'm trying to say is that we need to be very careful. And there's a big role for the minister and his associates in smoking on our market of certain chemical substances. Because nothing more than chemicals change their properties in different conditions, conditions of different temperatures, conditions of different humidity. Conditions of different Ph, i.e. acidity, etc., etc. So we don't have to say that something that has certain characteristics in Scandinavian countries, in the Mediterranean, can appear to be extremely harmful, which in the karst area will clearly fall through the ground, enter drinking water, etc. Thus, this climate is very, very important and is significantly different from where it can be used and not from where it can be used. I repeat, biocidal products include microorganisms. Micro-organisms spontaneously mutate, micro-organisms also gain new properties in a function of time because certain genes can cross from one micro-organism to another. And if we use them then in a function of time one until yesterday a harmless microorganism for a man can become dangerous. We must therefore have the possibility of such supervision, not just as it says in the law, in this bill to do so in accordance with the Chemical Law in the appropriate chemical laboratories. That's not enough. Both virologists and micrologists and other microbiology experts must certainly be consulted and involved in teams that will valorize that or not to use certain biocidal products in our area. Furthermore, I believe that microorganisms as biocidal products that are genetically modified will be increasingly used. Insert yourself clearly into them a gene, a gene that will give him a certain quality. This quality will then be used selectively to destroy certain harmful organisms. So everything we've said and spoken about the Law on genetically modified organisms also applies to genetically modified microorganisms. And finally, I'm going back to the most sensitive part, which is the laboratory control of the biocidal system. The laboratory control I repeat here in the bill of law says that it will be aware of what is written in the Chemical Law, so obviously the thought of chemical laboratories is absolutely insufficient for colleagues and colleagues to regulate this matter. There we have neither the equipment nor the experts, nor the possibility of essentially valorizing certain biocidal products in terms of how this law suggests that they should be evaluated, whether they should be placed on the market or not. Therefore, I suggest that this part is significantly changed, complemented in the segment of laboratory valorisation and biocidal control. We even at the Croatian People's Party club propose to start thinking about that in this case, but also in a number of similar cases, there is essentially no need to form new entertainment laboratories. For such areas, for interdisciplinary areas, colleagues and colleagues, the Minister of Science must be able to form a team together with the Minister of Health, a team that will also be interdisciplinary, a team from various universities, with various scientific institutions that will then clearly be part of the project of monitoring biocidal and valorising the proposal of biocidal products yes or no release into our area. We've already said that in a number of other cases. We believe that the state must have, I would say, targeted projects where it will hire our experts because professional people, professional services of any ministry, and the ministries together are not competent and able to do so. We need to make that clear. Croatia is further a country of vast biodiversity. And that's why we need to be particularly careful. I have already spoken in this House about what we should be proud of that only one island of Krk, for example. There are more biological species than all of Austria. It's something worth saving. That's something we have to think about. It's something clear that we can't endanger by letting our market in or out of chemicals or other biological agents. Here I can cut it short because here's seven hours coming. My colleagues and colleagues can therefore make a mistake easily and the consequences of being long - term and large. But it will take generations and generations to correct that clearly if we do it once. So it is our request that at least a few weeks delay the decision being taken under this Act, that it be possible to go to another reading, that all the proposals of these committees and of these which we have heard today from colleagues from the SDP Club and the one that I have made, and that they will probably be further prepared to be an even more quality law, regardless of what I see some of them are already denying this need, I think it's too serious matter to break this law over their knees. A few weeks won't mean anything if we could wait 10 years to put the directive into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88409	Thank you very much. And as the last in Mrs. Lucia Chikesh's discussion on behalf of the club... HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88410	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Here you have already told us that 7 hours, the HDZ club will be very short and respect that it is already the end of business hours. Namely, we have considered the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products with the Final Bill and Club of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the adoption of this Act. In order to protect human life and human health and to protect the environment, this law regulates the placing on the market and use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of procedures for the inclusion of active substances on the list of active substances authorised for use in biocidal products and the assessment of biocidal products of their effectiveness and the supervision of the law implemented. The law also pays particular attention to the proper use of biocidal products and the proposed law on biocidal products respects both the specificity of the time and the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and allows for the flexible adaptation of domestic legal legislation to the European Union as it also regulates mutual recognition of approval between the Member States of the European Union. As I have already said in the draft of this Law, the secondary legislation of the European Union is also respected and for the purpose of harmonising domestic legislation with European Union rules on the protection of human health and the protection of the environment from biocidal products and enabling the implementation of proposed solutions in a system guaranteeing the effectiveness and safety of people and the environment of the Croatian Democratic Community club to assess that there are particularly justified reasons for the adoption of this Act and by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88411	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer. Here you go, Minister Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88412	Just one sentence. I thank you for this fruitful debate. The government will therefore certainly consider everything and I am sure that we will go outside with several government amendments aimed at this debate. And one more thing I want to emphasize here. As far as inspection and control are concerned, we are already in preparation for a new Law on Sanitary Inspection which I hope will, after the technical consultations we have in Brussels, be found here and in the Assembly benches. Here's what I expect you'll support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88413	Thank you very much. I'm closing tonight's debate. We start tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. at 6 p.m. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88414	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to determine the quorum. The quorum? 85. We have a quorum. We're going to the vote. First, the Final Proposal for the Biocidal Products Act. The debate is over. We have amendments to the Government after the deadline of Jagoda Martic and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. First of all, we should vote on the amendments to the government that were passed after, beyond the deadline, whether or not we will debate and vote on them. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 76 for, 10 abstentions, one against. So, we'll vote. Amendment 1, State Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem's statement. Please explain Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88415	Mr President, it is in Article 1(2) of the amendment that in addition to the storage for exports outside the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia or the disposal of waste is replaced by a different order of words where or the disposal of waste is placed within brackets. In accordance with point 11 of Article 2 of the final draft law, the concept of biocidal products is defined. The proposed amendment nomotechnically improves the expression given that waste disposal is not considered to be a market-based process.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88416	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 90 votes for and 2 abstentions. This amendment has been adopted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88417	In Article 10(5), point (b) is replaced by the following: The final proposal for a law, and in Article 10(6), shall be deleted because the power to adopt a regulation laying down documentation for the assessment of active substances in biocidal products, the documentation for the assessment of biocidal products, the procedures for the assessment of biocidal products and their use and the types of biocidal products with their descriptions and the uniform principles for the assessment of biocidal products laid down in the provision of Article 7(3). The final draft of the law, so the amendment deletes paragraph 6 as surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88418	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and 2 abstentions of the proposed amendment. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88419	In Article 13(2), the word ‘general principles’ is replaced by the words ‘single principles’, and the words ‘general principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’, ‘single principles’ and ‘single This shall be accompanied by an expression in accordance with the provision of Article 11(2). Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88420	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please vote. The result? With 86 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed amendment. Amendment 4. Against. With one against, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88421	In Article 18(4), the word advertising is replaced by the word advertising in order to comply with the provision of Article 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88422	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Please vote. The result? With 85 for and 4 abstentions accepted proposed amendment. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88423	In Article 22, the new paragraph reads 9 members, the current paragraph 2 becomes paragraph 3. It is explained that the number of members of the Biocidal Products Committee is prescribed by the Final Proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88424	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on the proposed amendment. The result? With 79 for and 2 abstentions accepted. ... It's working. It's just something else that doesn't work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88425	In Article 27(1) of the wording may be temporarily replaced, because in cases where there is a reasonable doubt that the biocidal product is authorised in a complete or shortened procedure or biocidal product in the market procedure poses an unacceptable risk to humans, animals or the environment. The Minister must prohibit or restrict the placing on the market or use of that preparation, and therefore the amendment makes this power more clear. In Article 27(2), the word “Secretary” is replaced by the word “Minister” as it is proposed to notify the Minister, not the Ministry of Temporary Prohibition or the restriction of placing on the market or use of a biocidal product in the territory of the Republic of Croatia without delay of the European Commission or other members of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88426	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Vote! The result? With 81 votes for, 3 abstentions of the proposed amendment. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88427	In Article 35(3), the word "can" is replaced by the word "will". The amendment clarifies a statement relating to the power of the minister that, in the event of no risk of alteration or withdrawal of an exceptional authorisation for placing on the market biocidal products.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88428	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this amendment 7. The result? With 83 for, one abstention proposed amendment. And Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88429	In Article 60(1), point 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88430	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please vote! The result? With 78 votes for, 3 abstentions to the proposed amendment. Amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? Secretary of State! [[/Intruder: Sustained. Partly.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88431	The amendment is not accepted because it is accepted by the government's amendment to the same provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88432	An identical amendment has been accepted. Content identical amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88433	The amendment is an identical, identical amendment to Government number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88434	So I ask, is the government's amendment with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88435	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88436	Then this one is consummated, no longer should be voted on. Amendment of MPs, amendments to Jagoda Martic, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88437	Amendment 1 is not accepted because it is accepted by the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88438	It's contained, contentally the same. Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88439	The Government's amendment only accepts the first part of this amendment, that is the one relating to Article 27(1). In Article 27(2), you changed the "minister", you replaced the word "minister" but then you did not accept this provision of mine where I said the word was temporarily deleted. And if you don't accept that part then you're actually item 1 and item 2 is now going to be in each other's space to say so. Because if the words "can be temporarily" were replaced by the words "will" then the word "will" can no longer be spoken of as saying that in cases where there is a reasonable doubt that the biocidal product is authorised in a complete or shortened procedure to pose a serious threat to human health, the environment, etc., then we are no longer talking about a temporary ban, but we are talking about the minister in this case being either banned or banned from placing on the market. And the word "temporary" now doesn't know what it's about, until it's temporary. And that's why I'm saying, if this second part of my amendment is not accepted, then item 1 and item 2 are going to be in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88440	Tell the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88441	Well, we disagree with the explanation. We can't accept that amendment. It shall not be found to be in conflict with paragraph 1 because paragraph 1 states that it must be prohibited and whether it is a temporary or permanent prohibition is not a conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88442	Vote! Vote! Please, let's get on with it. Please vote! The result? 29 for, 5 abstentions, 62 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88443	Amendment 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88444	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88445	Amendment 3 is not accepted because it is accepted by the Government's amendment to the same provision and in the same formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88446	It's contained and consumed, isn't it, colleagues?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88447	Yeah. He's been consummated by the government's amendment. Therefore, there is no need to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-23-0.u88448	Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? With 95 votes for, 6 abstentions of the proposed law, together with the text proposed by the government, together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal to the Committee on the Constitution, I am voting on the next conclusion for legislation. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out the editorial of the text of this law before its publication in "The People's Newspaper". We can vote! The result? With 90 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to continue the session. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, emergency procedure - first and second reading, P.Z. No. 679 Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. Interior Ministry State Secretary Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
