ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88228	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Is he doing this? It's working. This is the third report on the work of the Advocate's Office for Children from draft to present. For the reasons known to this Assembly, the report on work for 2005 was not submitted because neither business nor other legal assumptions were met, but the information made up of work and made up by the advisors of the Office was provided to the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This, my opening statement, I divided it into two parts. And it's like a report on the work of the Office and the activities we had last year, what and how we did, that we met. And secondly, the report on the state of the child's rights by following by groups of individual infringements of the rights of children, the situation as we experienced it in the Republic of Croatia. I must point out once again, although it is known to you all that the Office without a leader was almost 6 months, i.e. from 14.10.2005 to 31.3.2006. It is only after the appointment of the Ombudsman for children on 31.3.2006 that the Office began to work uninterrupted for this reporting period. At a time when there were no leaders, unfortunately, it was not possible to do all those jobs and in the way that the law envisioned them, but the advisers and civil servants who were in the office at the time worked according to their abilities, or the way it was possible, either by telephone counseling, answers, or otherwise. The creation of assumptions for the normal work of the Office and the arrival, i.e. the election of the Ombudsman and its deputies, has made great efforts to reduce the number of pending cases. It is immediately established and designed to form the Office in a way that has put emphasis on regionalisation and that already in the past year, the Office has actually started to function in a way that regional offices in Split, Osijek and Rijeka are designed to be a large number, i.e. a large part of the obligations and jobs for their operation and the opening is executive. And I am pleased to say that the office in Split has started working with work, and that in, here in due course, I hope even before summer we will start working both in Osijek and in Rijeka. I must point out that we wanted this to happen at the same time and that our activities were aimed at all three sides at the same time, but given the difficulties in finding space, unfortunately, we have expanded this with Osijek and Rijeka. Although the report that you received in a very exhaustive way is showing the number of cases, ways and how, I'm just going to brief a few informations and a couple of figures that we met last year. So in 2006, we were working on, we received 828 new items. Of which 405 were individual applications, 423 were general initiatives of the office. As you are familiar with the Office of Advocates for Children under the Law on the Ombudsman for Children not only acts on applications but also on their own initiatives, following the state of injuries in society in general. 231 items were transferred from the previous reporting period, and overall when we add all of this up, I point out that the office worked in 1059 cases last year. The two words I'm going to say about the structure of child rights violations we've met and I'm saying that 61% of infringements of children's rights are children's rights. So the applications that came to us in 61% referred to violations of the personal rights of children in which they dominate the right to live with parents and parental care and the right to protection against violence. In 14% of the injuries, we received applications for children's educational rights. 4% concerned violations of judicial protection rights, 3% of social rights violations, 2% of health violations, etc. Following such infringements of individual rights, the office has written to the competent authorities very often, according to them. I will point out briefly a few of them who indeed, after we had determined by groups of violations of rights that they were indeed coming to them, were guided by certain bodies. Thus, we have directed the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia a recommendation for the need to establish the court's duty during weekends and holidays for the reason that unfortunately many violations of children's rights occur at that time and unless we have a court's watch, it is not possible to react without spotting, quick and quick decision. We also wrote a recommendation to improve child protection in the procedure of enforcement, on the sale of alcoholic beverages. We know that the law prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages to children, or persons under the age of 18. We spoke to the state inspectorate asking for control stepped up, inspections on the ground to determine whether it was truly respected or still violated. Then for the protection of children from attack on dogs, child protection during teacher strikes, the exercise of the right to transport to primary school, the reduction of infant mortality, the exclusion of children from all political activities, the children's budget, etc. The series is the recommendations that we have really written, which are numbered and systematised in our report. I particularly consider it necessary here to mention advertising, or a recommendation for advertisers, because there has been a lot of activity in the office. We pointed out the harmfulness of aggressive ads, school sales, direct calls for children to buy. I must point out that advertising industry children are extremely interesting and extremely fertile soil I dare say, in which I would say the skillful sale of their products, because children must not forget to spend their allowance accordingly, to influence the consumption of parents, but also to form their habits as future customers as future adults. We have indicated that aggressive advertising and aggressive promotion are aimed at harming children themselves, teaching them to appreciate material goods, that these material goods are crucial, which is in no way true and not true. Compared to the pornographic content in the media, we had a number of activities as individual indications of the inappropriateness of pornographic content in newspapers, televisions and other media, as well as those we asked distributors to remove such content from the shelves of shops, kiosks, so that they would not be available to children or not in their eyesight. Newspapers and publishers warned about the incomparability of content in such a way that, for example, on the same page, the newspaper has an ad with school accessories, SOS phone for children and phone 060 for hot line. We believe that this is inappropriate, and in this sense we have indeed had a lack of initiative and activity with the representatives of these houses. We also warned TV houses, as well as the Council for Electronic Media about the inappropriateness to give clips or announcements of films with explicit sex scenes in times when children are most often at home alone. Here I must point out that the other day we received the promise of one advertiser that from the next issue will stop publishing ads of pornographic content and just yesterday we received a new, latest number of advertisers that really mattered the changed appearance. I hope that he will follow the example of others. The prosecutor's office for children has achieved really good co-operation with a large part of government and non-governmental institutions, but also internationally. Our activity on that plan was really intense. Here I will mention our cooperation with the Croatian Bar Association, which we agreed on our initiative to ensure free representation, i.e. free lawyers to represent children in detention procedures. Since mid-12th of last year, by checking until two days ago, we have a report that in 450 cases, the Croatian Bar Association provided a free lawyer to children in the maintenance process. I must point out that in the area of protection and promotion of children's rights, a number of positive developments such as adequate legal arrangements for certain areas and better public awareness of the needs and rights of children have been achieved. But there are still a number of problems and difficulties to point out in order to achieve an adequate level of protection of children’s rights. In the exercise of individual children's rights, citizens continue to complain in a significant number of cases of insufficient involvement of the Centre for Social Care in parental care procedures, due to allegedly inactive participation in judicial proceedings, insufficient involvement in the establishment of parental cooperation or inadequate assistance to parents in the exercise of the child's right to abstention. We believe that there is no need to generalise but we must note that the image is created in connection with the action of a centre which, despite the changed jurisdiction and continues to play a significant role in the protection of children's rights, primarily through the basis of such actions of individuals who for various reasons do not perform their own professionally enough. Once again, we must point out that there are insufficient numbers of experts in the Centres for Social Care, other institutions of social care who are taking direct care of children, but also in the competent ministry dealing with this very difficult problem, as well as lack of education, supervisory and professional support. The level of protection of children's rights violated and the length of judicial proceedings in which the child's right is decided whether it is child-right to protect children from violence, the decision that a child will live with or exercise the right to support by parents with whom he does not live. A long-term procedure gives both parents space for different types of manipulations. I point out that only a stable situation, defined, is a permanent environment for proper growth and child rearing. In the area of education, human and spatial conditions which are a prerequisite for achieving quality work of educational institutions and where more than 600 thousand children live during the day, unfortunately they still do not contribute to the protection of their rights as we wish. The right to early education and education, the right to free and compulsory basic education under the same conditions for all children, the right to secondary education in accordance with the skills and opportunities and the right to education in an environment without violence were still subject to objections received in our office. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports recommended that in the draft important documents for the future of children and their well-being and on which the debate will be held and in the Croatian Assembly, the national pedagogical standard, the national curricula on pre-school, primary and secondary school systems, education and education include the principle of protection of the best interests of children. In the area of health rights as a lack of awareness of the problem, we see health and other risks that children are exposed to about unhealthy nutrition, whether it be family, kindergarten, school. Preventive action aimed at reducing these problems of eating disorders is considered necessary because an increase in the number of people affected can be predicted, as world trends show. In particular, and again, we have called on those responsible for providing special facilities in psychiatric hospitals for children with associated disorders or special institutional care for children who have associated disorders. Parents who are unable to solve their existential problems, whose victims are also their children, are most likely to help them in concrete cases. However, our powers are not in this direction, they do not allow decisions to be made in this context, so the only options of our recommendations to be regularly addressed to the competent authorities are. Unfortunately, families who face poverty and are trying to achieve their social rights and material rights also address us from ignorance and ignorance in power and often see us as the last instance they think we can help them exercise their rights. In this regard, the office has always informed the Centre for Social Care by stating the recommendation in which we called for the need to individualise each case, the need to observe and from the position of protection of the child's interests and in this sense to address a specific situation. The principle of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to take into account the child’s opinion in accordance with their age and maturity should indeed be systematically implemented in all acts relating to children because these principles do not make sense if the child’s opinion is not understood or accepted or easily passed. We believe that more effort is needed to bring this right closer to children so that they can really participate in their communities. Cultural sports facilities are unfortunately not equally available to their children. It also concerns, in particular, the fact in one of these complaints that children are trying to deny themselves the right to an organised holiday and follow-up educational recreational activities under the pretext of inability to achieve profit. We believe that such attempts should be clearly discouraged as to why they are particularly responsible for the local community. In addition to the availability of cultural and sports content, the local community should also make more efforts to make its children more accessible to cultural and sports content because it is a fact that children in rural areas have less access to them. And the same can be said of children whose parents are weaker property status or children with developmental difficulties. We believe that it should continue to work continuously to inform the public and competent authorities and institutions about the rights of minors in the process before the Police and the application of the Police Act which prescribes the obligation to treat a minor in the presence of his parents or guardians, unless it is possible for some specific reasons to do so. Indeed improving the position of children in society is a long process, can only be achieved through good cooperation of all bodies of subjects and individuals. Good legal regulation is only a basis on which systematic implementation needs to be built an efficient comprehensive system of protection of children's rights and interests. The recommendation of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee stresses that the work of the Ombudsman for children must, as well as their reports, have elements of supervision and critical assessments in relation to the activities of the competent authorities in the application of the Convention. It is precisely for these reasons that the Ombudsman for children as a protector and spokeswoman for children, by submitting this report on his work, seeks to point out all the areas in which their rights are violated or to an insufficient extent implemented, and calls on everyone whose responsibility is to implement and achieve the protection of children's rights to adopt and carry out the observations and recommendations provided for in this report and in accordance with them in order to give all children without exception the opportunity to develop their full potential. Thank you for your attention. I'll be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88229	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88230	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 79th session held on 17 April 2007 discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for children with an act of 30 March 2007. The Committee discussed the report on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee found that the Ombudsman had submitted a report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. The Committee found that in the area of child rights protection and promotion, a number of positive developments were achieved as a result of the activities of the Ombudsman for children and her recommendations that pointed to the core of the problem. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 is accepted. A year.".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88231	Thank you. Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Reporter committee respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88232	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities discussed at the 58th session of the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 which was delivered by the Ombudsman to the President of the Croatian Parliament and by an act of 30 March 2007. The Committee considered those reports as an interested working body and unanimously supported the report in the discussion by assessing it with quality and content. Special emphasis is given to the extremely good co-operation of the board with the Ombudsman for children who, during the past and this year, has been achieved through the the thematic sessions of the board but also through a number of opinions by the Ombudsman on legislative proposals which directly or indirectly referred to the protection and promotion of children's rights. The Ombudsman informed the board members that 828 new cases were opened during 2006, of which 405 were related to individual reports of child rights violations received and 423 were general initiatives. Such a significant number of performances are, in the opinion of the board members, the result of the work of the offices as well as numerous problems in society where, unfortunately, children are also affected as the most vulnerable group of society. The members of the committee supported the evaluation of the Ombudsman for children that positive developments were achieved during 2006 in the area of child protection, especially in relation to the legal arrangement of some areas of importance for the protection of children's rights, as well as in the context of better public awareness of the needs and rights of children. They agreed that the project to regionalise the work of the Ombudsman's office would ensure greater protection of children's rights as well as better information on their rights, in line with the recommendations of the United Nations Children's Rights Committee on the expansion of the work of the Ombudsmans for children and in areas outside the standard centres. The debate expressed concern over the growing presence of violence in society in all its forms, often affecting children. It is also pointed out that there is insufficient involvement of the social care centre in parental care procedures due to inactive participation in judicial proceedings, insufficient involvement in the establishment of parental cooperation, or inadequate assistance to parents in the exercise of the child's right to abstention. In order to achieve these individual children's rights, there is a need to provide a greater number of experts in the centres of social care and other institutions, as well as in the relevant ministries, to address children's problems. It was also pointed out that the level of protection of children's rights was seriously violated and the length of judicial proceedings in which the child's right to be decided whether it was child-protective proceedings against violence, the choice of a parent's life or the exercise of the right to support by the parents with whom he does not live. The members of the committee supported the counsel's recommendations for children related to the provision of on-call services to competent courts outside of regular working hours, non-working days and national holidays, as they were then the most pronounced problems of family-law issues. In this connection, it is also recommended that the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court be treated as quickly as possible in all judicial proceedings in the domain of domestic violence. It is also supported recommendations to improve child protection in the procedures of enforcement, then recommendations on improving child safety located in homes of social care as well as any other recommendations related to preventing child rights violations. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 is accepted. A year.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88233	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Gender Equality, rapporteur, respected representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88234	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 26 April 2007 discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 March 2007. The Committee discussed that report in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. During the 2006 report period in the field of protection and promotion of children's rights, significant positive developments have also contributed to greater public awareness of the needs and rights of children. During 2006, the office acted on a total of 636 individual law violations. Of the total applications received, the highest number refers to domestic violence and violence in educational institutions, followed by violation of the right to life with parents and parental care. The debate stressed that the subjects of family-law issues cover more effectively the handling of competent authorities, particularly the centre of social care, as citizens continue to complain in a significant number of complaints about the work of social care centres in the exercise of individual children's rights. The work of courts, i.e. the violation of children’s rights by lengthy court proceedings, follows. It has been pointed out that the media has contributed to the awareness and sensibility of society on the problems and needs of children. However, it is also indicated that there are negative phenomena in the media shows of children in promotional messages and ads. In this respect, it has been assessed that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which in the legislative procedure should regulate all issues relating to the protection of children's rights against inappropriate content and child abuse for promotional purposes. The Committee supported the Ombudsman’s recommendation to provide the competent courts with out-of-work duty services in order to deal with matters of family and legal protection in a hasty and spotless manner. In the debate, the members and members supported the 2006 Ombudsman's 2006 report. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88235	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88236	My colleagues and colleagues, here at the outset, I must say that this report is much better presented by many areas where children's rights have been lifted compared to some previous reports. And I think it's in any case to welcome that the Office has managed to fight some concrete solutions, especially on cooperation with the bar. Because we know that a large number of people have problems paying for legal services that are extremely large. And I think that when it comes to the battle for children's rights, it's actually this kind of move that's absolutely something to say hello to, and I'm glad that the bar of attorneys came out here to meet and that it's going to help a large number of parents who in this case are fighting primarily for the rights of the child. What's bad is that this report has pointed to a large number of problems that unfortunately most people do not solve or solve at a very low rate. It is something that is the work of the government, of all its offices, of the ministries, and I think that in that part the same goes through this report and this problem as is the problem of the attorney general or the lawyer for gender equality. For several years now, the problem of alimony has been unresolved, child support payments that are fundamentally the right of the child, whether parents live together or not. One who does not live with his child is obliged to pay for that child a certain restraint. Unfortunately, our parents are very imaginative and are looking for all possible ways to avoid their obligations, and the state and the whole system are unfortunately ineffective in forcing parents to keep it together and pay. Unfortunately, there are still 188,000 single parents in Croatia 48% of those who do not pay so support for their child. We didn't do anything about it. We had an obligation here as part of a material that the Croatian Parliament brought, it is a family national policy where the obligation was written to bring an alimony fund that would solve therefore the problem of non-payment of abstention. Unfortunately, funds were provided for the Fund during the first year of the HDZ's mandate, unfortunately after that, those funds disappeared and there is nothing from the Alimentary Fund and the question of alimony remains an issue that remains exclusively at the level of individual struggle, so parents. The state didn't try to do anything to make the system more efficient. We still have a problem with the lack of mental health experts. Here, in several chapters, there is a problem of violence against children, violence among children, so-called children. peer violence, violence against teachers. I think the problem is that we don't have enough mental health experts, we don't have enough professional people to work with children at the earliest stage when they detect the first problems. Unfortunately, we don't have anything that should have been introduced to kindergartens long ago, which is an education about nonviolent conflict resolution. So children should already be educated in kindergartens and made that fists cannot solve life’s problems. Children who are traumatized cannot solve their problems in kindergartens because they are not educated, nor can teachers in schools be solved because they are not educated. Only mental health experts can handle. Unfortunately, we have very few in both primary and secondary schools. Unfortunately those who are, who work in certain associations, they are the same if extremely little. In this report, the Ombudsman shall, for example, be is about that there are therefore two institutions that are conducting psychosocial treatment and talk about how one of the associations, MODUS, in Zagreb, had very good actually indicators of how a positive shift can be made with psychosocial treatment in those who are violent in the family. So in 65% of the cases, the treatment was, says, more or less successful, or the participants of the treatment stopped their physical violent behavior and significantly reduced verbal and emotional forms of violent behaviour towards family members. Therefore, such associations, which unfortunately are few, should therefore be established much more in Croatia. They should be given much greater encouragement to both states and local units and should therefore be much more involved in the work of our schools to help their children, therefore, but also to adults who are, therefore, violent or victims of violence. Unfortunately, our homes for carefree children who have a very large number of traumatized children from leaving, from the trauma of abuse in their own family, from the trauma they received because they had to be separated from their parents for some reason. So even carefree children's homes don't have enough mental health experts to do what I think would be necessary. In addition to this peer violence, there has been another new type of violence lately. Children of some age are quite so little and irresponsible in their behavior. They think it's something good-looking. It is about most children in elementary schools or in high school resort to being photographed naked with their cell phone or doing so in person, so they send someone else on their cell phone. This one for them may at first be proved to be something that turns into a serious life trauma, to hell because a part of these images can be found on school walls. After such a photograph of the bereaved little girls are mostly girls who are so hung up on walls experiencing a lot of terror within their schools, and the question is how to stop it, how to educate children that it is something that can lead them to a situation that will significantly change their lives. I don't think there's anything left for us to do but give the kids other values. This is where the D.A. was talking about marketing, about hitting kids from the media, TV, newspapers. I think on the other hand, then school, but as parents, as a social community, we should try to understand as many other messages as possible about a lot of other values, so that are more quality and valuable in life than what one part of the children are dealing with, and then eventually become victims of their own, let's say indifference. This also warned about the length of court proceedings when it comes to children's rights. The fact is that court proceedings take too long. The fact is also that a number of children who have been abused in families who seek justice in a court of law cannot wait for that justice. And that's what I warned you about the moment we were making changes to the Penal Code. When we increased the limit, or punishment for those who are abusers. Unfortunately, often things fall on evidence because certain types of abuse, such as sexual abuse, is very difficult to prove. There are also some witches who, if their work were analysed and their artisans, could then be seen to have a very, very large percentage of those skills where they said that the child was not abused. So, unfortunately, we here in good faith have increased the limit, or punishment, of the prison, many do not even receive minimum punishment because in court they are simply released from any responsibility. It's a bad message to kids who have been abused. I think that society, the judiciary, all have to give a message to abusers with the highest possible penalty and send a message that such behavior is unacceptable because children who have been abused in any way have traumas for life. There's another, one category of kids who's been showing up lately asking for psychosocial help, and these are children who are traumatized by a bad divorce. So the unquality divorce. This is what you have pointed out here and the activities of the Social Care Centre, which obviously do not work enough with parents in some situations to go through a divorce in a way that the children are least traumatized. The problems parents have either in the distribution of property or in any other divorce procedure are simply something that they need to be educated so that they can’t handle over the back of their children. Unfortunately, children are often the subject of their oversmart, their blackmail, and a very, very large number of children therefore seek the help of psychologists precisely because they are traumatized by such a poor and unquality divorce. The report also says something about the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, and I would like to say that I had a police report in my hand for the past year where it is actually visible that the police in a large number of cases are therefore domestic violence and, primarily, when it comes to violence against children directly or indirectly asked for a measure of protection, one of the safeguards. Mostly the largest number went through protective measures to get away from the family and ban the child. Unfortunately, misdemeanor courts have imposed a very, very small number of such measures. So this only pointed to the problem of implementation and when we have a certain law, when we have certain measures for those who should prescribe it unfortunately do not prescribe it. They're on a low-resistance line. Yesterday, there was talk here about how misdemeanors often go to the easiest possible prescribed sentence. And so in this law. Instead of safeguards that go in favour of the child’s protection and their life and health, however, they unfortunately go in a line of less resistance, and such measures are not prescribed despite the fact that this is the only way to protect the child. And I'm glad this report found space and another problem, and that's the problem with children with multiple damages. And better said the problem of an unequal interpretation of the law which is the same for all children in Croatia. But unfortunately children with multiple damages will get their rights in some cities, in other cities they will not get them. I think it's something to really work on because it's not easy for children or parents who have such children to go many times to any art, any conversations, and that after that they can't actually exercise their rights. That a child for whom every one of us who is a layman, who is not a doctor sees that a child who cannot be fed or clothed or walk on that committee that child has no right, therefore, to any right, is not actually a disabled person. So that's the kind of case we've had. They've been talked about by the public through the media. So this is an indication that there are in certain situations of commissions which therefore operate under the same law but assess in different cities differently. And you have rightfully warned here that there is an unequal, unequal interpretation and implementation of certain laws. Finally, this report warned about the problem of Roma children. The problem of their begging, their arranged marriages. So when children are 14, 15, they engage in marriages arranged by their parents. These children are particularly exposed to increased trade, sexual and any other exploitation. I think there really needs to be a lot of effort to protect Roma children, to get them off the street. They are only children and regardless of the conditions they live in, they often live in very poor hygiene conditions. Often they don't go to school, so they're cut off for that one right to education. They have often been cut off for a normal child’s life, for a normal childhood. For surely the child who has been condemned to do so is forced to beg somewhere on the streets of Zagreb or on the streets of another city does not have the childhood it deserves. I hope, therefore, that the Government will, but here is the Ombudsman as much as she can do on her own to move the life of Roma children with quality up and to protect against any possible abuse, because unfortunately it is one category of children who is very, very exposed to abuse and violation of therefore children's rights. Here, in the end, I can only say that the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88237	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88238	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for children with co-workers. The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 was fully discussed by the Croatian Democratic Community club. The report is complete and shows the environment in which children are growing up today and everything they are exposed to, and it is good that the Ombudsman for children has submitted this report by dividing it into ten chapters, if we are not counting on the opening part and thus transparently showing us all the activities, monitoring the infringements of individual rights of children, proposals to take measures to build a complete system of protection and promote the rights of children, participation in public activities aimed at improving the situation of children, proposals to take measures to prevent harmful actions that endanger the rights and interests of children, participation in the process of drawing up draft rules concerning children's rights and which regulate issues of importance for children and incentives to adopt and amend laws and regulations relating to the rights and protection of children. Of course, it is also commendable to visit children who live or are temporarily or permanently located in natural or legal persons and other legal entities under specific rules. There are also activities related to the protection and promotion of the rights and well-being of children, as well as meetings and association with children, international cooperation and the establishment and financial business of the Ombudsman’s Office for the Protection of Children’s Rights. The titles of these chapters point to the liveliness and scope of the Ombudsman's Office for Children, which the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports and commends as much as possible. In the introduction of this year's report, it is concluded that the Ombudsman's Office for Children received 828 new cases during 2006 as it is said that 231 cases were transferred from previous reporting periods, which means all 1059 cases. If we see what these items were about, then it is evident that from newly received objects, the 828 most of them were related to the violation of children’s personal rights. Then, slightly less on the violation of education rights. Then on violation of judicial protection rights, social rights and at least 2% on cultural, economic and health rights and one percent on children's rights as members of the social community. In 2003, the Law on the Ombudsman for Children entered into force and we can say that this institution justified its existence and that through this institution the Government has further protected target groups, groups of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, children, youth, minors as well as those particularly vulnerabilities, which are children with developmental disorders. And as the Ombudsman emphasizes in her report that she is the mediator between children and the obligations and the duties of adults to help them in the full extent of their rights, these sensitive populations are the target group of each responsible government and government headed by our President Sanader through every resolution ministry in which this population is part I would say that she has done, or the Croatian Democratic Community Club, that she has made big and multiple steps and all to the children's well-being. After all, the Ombudsman’s report also shows positive developments in many segments of life and children’s rights. Unfortunately, during life, children are exposed to a number of stressful situations and traumatic conditions. They face great trials and their great curiosity and curiosity do not allow me to resist them. The Ombudsman also warns of the work of individual institutions of a lack of social care centre. As the last report, i.e. last year's report particularly apostropheeded, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has greatly improved the work of the Social Care Centre in both technical and professional terms. I will note, we will just note that so far in the Republic of Croatia has been working 80 welfare centres, 25 branches and 11 offices. If this adds that during these two years it has been built, forgive me, 17 new centres for social care, and 15 have been adapted, upgraded and adapted have already created better preconditions for the work of the same. If we say that social care centres are precisely due to the more efficient operation of this teamwork, which they have received 60 vehicles in the job description so far, and that they will soon get 60 others to say everything if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has improved the work of these centres. It was not only guided to technical assistance at social care centres, but also improved quality and expertise, so more than 200 professional employees were employed during this time. And the Croatian Democratic Community club, in the hope, respected attorneys, that in the report for the following, means in 2007 you will talk about individual centres and individual employees, this is how it gets the impression that the system is not fully working, and I, we cannot agree with that. We can only talk about individual centres, we can only talk about individual employees of these centers who have not satisfied the work at the workplace they cover. The problem of lack of coordination and lack of cooperation between all those who should work on the welfare of children and children is not at an appropriate level. So social care centres, police, kindergartens, primary schools, high school schools and inevitable parents who have to coordinate and who have to be involved in all of this. And there's been a positive shift here. The effort of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to achieve better conditions for children means one-way work, the removal of all those technical barriers that have existed so far, and the employment of psychologist experts in each school that has become mandatory, we believe that it will contribute greatly to improvement at this level. The esteemed defenders point out the greater social sensitivity to all problems related to the children's population and the Croatian Democratic Community club holds that a great contribution to this culture of sensitivity has been contributed to the media, we commend their work, but at the same time we pray to point out the problem always and always, that but the maximum protection of both the child's dignity and its integrity. The esteemed defender of the Croatian Democratic Community club supports both the provision and establishment of regional offices according to your report now in Split and soon in Osijek and Rijeka. Of course it will contribute to an even greater sensitivity, that it will contribute even better to the work of you in Zagreb. We support and establish free legal assistance and we see that thanks to the Law Chamber in 2006 you received such more than 400 legal services, which is commendable for each commendation, and we thank the Attorney's Office for solving this problem. We support without further ado and recommendations for court duty and hastening to resolve matters of family legal issue. And with regard to recommendations to reduce infant mortality, we can conclude that this government is through its national plan of activities for the welfare, rights and interests of children in the 2006/2012 period. For years, the main objectives of the national plan have been to provide health care for mothers and children, to reduce infant mortality and infants and children in general, and to reduce child injury mortality and to improve the health care of mothers and children. Of course, the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will now continue to insist even more on the hasty implementation of the planned measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88239	Thank you. The debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 will now be interrupted and the debate will continue on Wednesday. On behalf of the HNS Club will be debated by the esteemed representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain and then by representative Ivo Banac etc. And now we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88240	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. You have been delivered the consolidated text of the agenda for the 25th session and we are now continuing the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88241	Good afternoon, since it's the beginning of this morning's session. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed rapporteur of this report. It is unnecessarily necessary to stress that children are our treasure and that we should certainly protect it as such. In dealing with them, we show our true face. As it applies to adults but it also applies to society and the state. There is no historical period in which children have not been abused and exploited, and this is a form of particularly serious human rights violations. In the Republic of Croatia today is really working on systematic promotion and protection of the rights of the child but some groups are still in an extremely unfavourable position. For such but also for other children, Croatia must continue to work on finding as constructive and better solutions as possible in order to stop child suffering. First of all, it should be said that the report was visually done very well. It is very transparent and substantially enriched in view of previous years, under which I mean a significant amount of constructive proposals that are addressed both to Parliament and to the executive authority. To begin with, I would like to draw attention to a group of children who are often marginalized in societies who are not at all or are not talked about at all, or are not told enough about them. It's about children who come from minority families, most of all here will be about Roma families. You will agree that these children are mostly in a double bad position from their average peers. First of all, it comes from a marginalized environment in society and as members of the national minority in the beginning are unfortunately still denied for certain rights, perhaps not on paper but certainly in practice. On the other hand, it is about children, so they grow very sensitive to all external especially negative incentives. One of the biggest problems for these children is certainly schooling. In spite of the great effort made by various associations and minority societies, however, there are still quite a number of Roma children who are not educated at all. Although among them there are some who have no affinity for school, let us not forget that the primary school in Croatia is mandatory. On the other hand, there is a significant number of Roma children who would love to go to school but cannot be enrolled because of various administrative difficulties. For example, they await obtaining Croatian documents, i.e. application or residence. While in most cases the reason for not enrolling such children is completely subjective, for example, a school does not want to meet such a child. Given that we are soon allegedly introducing a high school obligation, I think this is a problem that we really need to work on and may decide on more detailed regulation of the rights of such children under the appropriate law. Another major problem in women's Roma children concerns their right to childhood. I am referring to famous stories about the early marriages of Roma girls often for older men who hardly even know about the significant financial gain of their families. On the one hand, I can understand that it is part of the Roma tradition and even one component of the functioning of their social system. From our modern civic perspective, it is often understood that such an act does not necessarily mean that our tradition or lack of it in this case is better in some absolute sense. We certainly need to guard against ethnocentrism but I am convinced that in the first place they must be the rights of these children and they have the right to childhood as they should have the right to choose their own mate. The attorney general's office has already stepped up to the Roma community demanding that girls not be sold for marriage because it's against the law. However, without the means of coercion held in his hands by the executive power, little can change. Now it is a matter of political will and how this government takes care of children is an excellent indicator of their relationship with families who care for a disabled child, since financial assistance had to wait for years. Thank God the elections are every four years, so only sensitive groups like this can hope for at least in the election year. It's an extremely difficult problem for child trafficking. In fact, it is a problem of a global scale that crosses state borders in both abstract and realistic terms. The causes of this problem such as poverty are also global and it is difficult to expect a country like Croatia to make significant improvements to these global problems through its contribution. But since we're on the so-called. The Balkan route is very popular for everything and so we must have people under our control what is happening within our territory. The other direction in which the state should engage is certainly to improve the information of children and young people about the dangers that lurk on the issue because in Zagreb, we also had cases of children of relatively mature age away from home and in the society of a complete stranger. Many of the sold children eventually end up on the road earning bread to beg. We ourselves are witnessing a large number of underage children who are now no longer begging from table to table in cafes but are forced to play on the trams for change that will give him a compassionate but certainly naive soul. In fact, this money is almost never going to them, but it's mostly about a developed system for easy earning certain older individuals through the coercion of minors to beg for money for them. And then a simple man asks himself whether to give him money when I know he won't have direct benefits from it, to give him money, or if I know he'll come home and end it or not to give him money if he ends up at home and, of course, he's rewarded with beatings. In fact, I have to admit that the state has failed on that point. The number of children begging is growing from year to year and almost nothing on this issue is being done. I remember the old cases when certain members of the Croatian police took the right to excavate their own frustrations on those poor children in some of the following dark streets. So now the man wonders if maybe it's better that these cops don't touch them anymore. However, the fact is that these children do not have any childhood. No one knows exactly what conditions they live in after they leave the street somewhere called home for them. It is obvious that these children are not educated and are mainly exposed to numerous dangers that unprotected children are lurking in the street. Something has to be done about it. There must be a public debate and political will to build these children a shelter in which people will work specialized in specific problems of any minority and in which these children will be able to get at least a basic education to train them for a further life. What we could do for a start anyway is that they are there, that these children, after moving off the road, are placed in a home that was built for child trafficking victims. Let's remember one thing. These children are not begging on their own, but solely on our shame. And one more thing. It is certainly important to mention an important role in protecting children that social care centres should also play. However, in the Republic of Croatia, these centres are extremely closed institutions that primarily operate through strict bureaucratic methods. Unlike the Western countries, the United States would mainly mention where social workers are mostly staying on the ground, and their work is seen by a number of inspectors in Croatia, we are just witnessing more and more tragic affairs. Not to mention Rovinj, Lošinj, Brezovica, and in the long term, the way the centres work are all just not effective. For this reason, I urge the lawyer to urinate with the minister on this matter because it is he who is responsible for the poor situation in the welfare system. On the side of supporting this report, the Croatian People's Party will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88242	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club of SBHS, Mr. Representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88243	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. This extremely comprehensive and analytical report points to the great commitment and professionality of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children who managed to act proactively on the basis of the two-year plan and the work programme and the reorganisation of the Office, despite the accumulated cases and the interruption of the continuity of work during 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 due to delays in the appointment of the Ombudsman last year. The creation of a two-year plan and work programme for 2006 and 2007 and the successful expansion of staff that will enable the Office to operate regionally tells us that the Ombudsman has a clear vision and objectives of its activities, which strengthens this important institution. In particular, the parallel work on the cases received and the proactiveness of the Advocate's Office in monitoring the preparation of legal regulations and programmes should be welcomed from the impact on children's well-being, the quality of public degrees and information and educational activities, and the intensity of communication with a number of state and public institutions. I stress that there are concerns about cases of neglect or non-inclusion of the Advocate's Office in the process of drawing up national programmes, as was the case with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which in November 2006, did not respond to the Office's call and recommendations regarding the production of pedagogical standards and "curiculum" and operationalisation, cooperation in relation to ongoing and announced projects of the Ministry. Therefore, the Regulation on the evaluation of the health education programme, the rules on enrolment in primary school and the determination of the psychophysical abilities of students, the Law on primary education and the introduction of compulsory secondary education. It is precisely on the proposal for a health education programme that is seen as a result of the late involvement of the Ombudsman for children in the development of this important and public controversial programme, in particular of the part relating to sexual education. The Ombudsman only later received a proposal for the programme on her own and only after he had already sent it to the Ministry of Health for an indication of consent. In its opinion on 30 January, the Ombudsman for children has just set the criteria for the assessment of the health education programme and highlighted the importance of scientific justification, respect for human and child rights and the participation of children in the design of the programme concerning them. As she indirectly mentions in the conclusion of her report, her opinion is welcomed by the disdain of the public and by an interested group promoting the "Grossd" Association programme. It is not good that a public defender has to defend his right to protect the rights and interests of children, which only speaks of the importance of this institution and the enormous work that is yet to be done in raising awareness of both citizens and state institutions about the importance of children's rights. If the final decision of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on the Health Education Programme is made contrary to the criteria set by the Advocate General, or if the discriminatory and unrecognizable programme of sexual education "Grozd" enters the educational system it will be a great defeat and international disgrace for Croatia as a country that has committed to respecting children's rights in accordance with the United Nations Convention and damages the well-being of children and young people themselves that we do not speak. I propose that, in its conclusion on this item of the agenda, the Parliament obliges the competent authorities of the executive authority to make a written statement to the Assembly on the recommendations set out in this detailed and precise report and to lay down concrete measures to be taken during this year for the purpose of improving their work in accordance with the analysis carried out by the Advocate General. Only concrete actions in line with concrete recommendations can we expect progress in protecting the rights and welfare of our children. The regional party club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88244	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88245	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, before us is a report by the Ombudsman for children who, as a special body, established by the Croatian Government with the task of protecting the monitoring and promotion of the rights and interests of children under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, other international contracts and the law. The report contains a factual state and is immutable. However, data from the report should be used to look at the existing situation and find solutions to the identified problems. We haven't done anything if we just accept the submitted report because we're going to get a similar report a year, and the observed problems are only going to increase. What we can conclude from this report is that children's rights in Croatia are being violated and there is no complete system of protection and promotion of the rights and interests of children. What rights are being broken? All rights are violated, and out of the total number of cases in question 70% refers to personal rights violations, violation of the right to life with parents and parental care and violation of the right to protection against violence. Whether we want to or not to consider this report, we must return to the importance of the family both in the life of the child and in the functioning of the social community that is based on the family. Every child's first experience, the first encounter with the world is experienced in the family. The family should be an ambience of security, stability, warmth and mutual love. In such an environment, the inevitable contribution of both parents forms a child into a member of the social community. It has a need for the fullness that father and mother make together. It's a cruel reality that our families are getting further away from the desired ideal. Our families are falling apart, and with our mates, love stands a place of impatience that culminates in mutual hatred. Direct victims of such changes become children who love both father and mother equally. Ex - mates ’ accounts often take place through children. In all possible ways, it wants to make it impossible to meet a child with another parent and it goes all the way to moving to other countries and to other continents. A meeting that by nature of things, which by nature things occasionally cannot compensate for the natural child's need for both parents. According to our constitution, the family is under special protection from the state. Is the state fulfilling its obligation to protect the family? We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party think that this is not why. The state did not provide the family with that fundamental assumption of stability, which is material security. For material safety it is necessary to be able to work and live from your work. As long as the unemployment rate is around 20%, and in some counties and over 50% cannot be said that we have secured the possibility of working and when someone is lucky to work legal status is insecure, the worker is unprotected and exposed to the employer's self-will to the extent that workers themselves say they work in the slave system. Of course, we have formally protected the worker, but the worker does not consume his rights and should not in practice complain. The state hasn't found any payout mechanisms, and there can't be a single speech on the appropriate salary. Under these conditions it is perfectly understandable that dissatisfaction and anxiety from the working environment is brought into the family. It involves violence, and the end is divorce and sometimes even murder a mate. And the kids? They are traumatized rarely with life consequences. We have a family ministry that should protect the family through various programs, help maintain the family as a fundamental unit of society, but the family is still collapsing. What does that mean? This means that the Family Ministry has no knowledge of the creation and implementation of projects that would protect the stability of the family, and the consequences of this are suffered by children through violation of their personal right to live with parents and parental care, and this will be done by their reports and in future by the Ombudsman for children. More often, the right to protection against violence is violated. Violence is present in families, kindergarten, school etc. Today’s greatest moral problem is violence that involves physical, mental, and sexual abuse as a concept. Unfortunately, before that problem, family eyes are still closing today. He's trying to keep it quiet and keep it locked behind the door. Not often when he shows up. The authorities want him back inside the home walls, and the notifier faces a judgment of the environment because he doesn't wash his dirty laundry in his own house. The most common victims of domestic violence are children. More than worrying is the increase of violence in schools, among peers as well as the emergence of violence in kindergartens. We in Croatia believe that the starting point of these problems is within the family. Available data suggests that schoolers and kindergartens are those children who are victims of domestic violence. In today’s materialized society, families as well as family roles have been neglected. Today it is not the atmosphere of peace, warmth, security, closeness and love. Family members are becoming more and more strangers who meet in the house only in passing. Parents have no time or patience for a parenting role, expecting kindergartens and schools to take over what is in the nature of things as parents and as a right but also as a obligation. With the passing of their roles, often parents do not accept that their child has behavioral problems, and that is when the teacher, teacher, teacher, is responsible for them. None of them can replace basic home education, and therefore the Attorney General's report is not surprising to us. With insufficient family attention, injustices in schools, colleges were observed, the child led to frustrations manifested in various ways, including violence against peers and teachers. Essentially eroded society and social relations in each segment leave their negative traces, and it is unfortunate that neither children are excluded from it. Even before reality, eyes must not be closed because such problems are not solved. And as long as that's the case, we'll accept the Attorney General's report every year, but the picture of reality won't become pinker. Because of the poor economic situation, many children are deprived of the right to education. Not that parents wouldn't want to send their kids to school. I'd love to, but of course that doesn't allow them their material opportunities or the benefits they receive from work if they're lucky enough to work. This right is particularly denied to children living in the country. Let's not fool ourselves that there are no gifted children in the country. It certainly does. But their parents do not, for example, have 900 kuna per month for a bus ticket, and there is not a word about a child’s clothes to be about his colleagues. Perhaps that isolation is one of the reasons that will lead to behavioral disorders. This society makes serious failures by neglecting the family as the foundation of a healthy society, and accounts for, and accounts for the launch of failures are already slowly arriving. And that's just plain obvious to us in the Child's Attorney General's report. The club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts our report and we have just pointed out and we point out, it is not a narrow area, it is a very wide area. And a serious state policy if it wants to solve this fashion problem deeply into solving this problem and then we can hope for a more favourable report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88246	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said a number of incorrect allegations. I'll fix just some. She said that families are further collapsing, that the family has been neglected, that the ministries have no programme or measures, which is absolutely not true. There is a protocol to act in the event of domestic violence and it is increasingly reported and increasingly protected from such measures. Then there is a population policy that we adopted where we have an incentive for the 3rd and 4th children, where the change basically covers more than 40,000 children for the child's allowance. Then there are free textbooks, there is free transportation which you have highlighted and difficulty with transportation, free housing in dormitories. So these are all encouraging measures for families for children. And what eventually led to our negative trend in population policy being halted and that our happiness was born to more children, though not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS club. And here you are, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88249	So I'm referring to article 209 because my colleague corrects my exact allegations of family collapse. And that I have precisely led the fact that our family is still collapsing and that this trend has been recorded to collapse shows the number of divorces. If divorce isn't about ruining a family, dear colleague I don't know what that would be, then indicators that would talk about breaking down a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88250	This is just saying that you're giving a correction to an incorrect quote, not a word of content. Nothing. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Some other marriage theorists define it as an emotional stew, and then it's very much the same discussion whether it's a scale of happiness or, as some say, it's not a simple institution at all. But I will also, on behalf of the club, commend this report on the work of the Ombudsman for the children for 2006. And even I can actually show one of these then, I won't be cynical hopefully, we're one happy, we had one crisis there in 2005 we really got one... a very serious and responsible person who is very sensitive to these problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not only this report, which really corresponds to a genre of reports, but a whole series of media performances by Mrs Jelavic, shows, indeed, that the Parliament made a good decision there in early 2006 and that we finally guessed. And yes, what's most important, and that's that this very important segment, which is the rights of children who have certainly existed before, but not before this theory, but our society has not been sensitized either. And actually now, in a little bit of a way, that unknown country that was just concerned with the rights of children, it belongs to a new set of these human rights. And we're actually dealing with that fact. And normally we see exactly what actually, which means this very future of ours, and it's just that it's actually a living being, that the subject, that it can't possibly be just the object of this adult world. Here when I was preparing for this to talk about this report, then I ran into a speech from former Czech President Vadslav Kavel on September 30, '90. In the last century, the United Nations signed this International Convention on the Protection of Children where he was the representative of Czechoslovakia so he signed it. And then it really starts with one of those scary sentences. He says, during the last decade in his own country, and this is not only true for the Czech Republic but it has been worth a thousand times in the interests of children. A thousand times I've heard some of your... The service in the hated regime is defended by the argument that they only act because of their children to show them food, to get to study, so that they can go to sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says a thousand times I've been confided in by different famous, unknown people that with their mind and heart they're completely on our side, i.e. on the so-called Decidents and that different petitions organized by totalitarian authority against us explicitly and only because they have children and cannot afford the luxury of resistance. Immorality justified the name of children, and evil served on behalf of their alleged good. And really that's what I deeply hope that these sentences are a finding for us and that we can really now, that we don't have to justify in the name of children both evil and immorality and then in the end the same thing says that I would say we can't enter into this convention a paragraph, but it says that parents and even adults on behalf of children and their spines should stand in the name of... The alleged breakthrough forbidden to lie, to serve dictators, to denucate, to bend the spine, to fear someone, to betray them ideally, and to prohibit all murderers and dictators from starving children by their hair, and we have indeed seen the same in our history as many dictators very much loved that about children by hair. [[You don't understand.]] But now let's go back here and just praise what we said, not just this report, but an entire ambience that goes along with this institution. It is precisely and it is found that many positive developments in child protection during 2006 can be observed. There are also reports of the number of these reports, 405 reports of cases of child rights violations filed. In addition to newly received items, the office has handled a total of 636 cases, since about two hundred cases have been transferred from previous reporting periods. For this reason, during 2005, the Office of Advocates for Children received 416 applications, individual cases, infringements of children's rights, and with newly received cases, it also acted in a total of 754 cases since over 300 cases were re-transmitted from the previous reporting period. This comparison shows that there is a slight increase in the number of applications, but this does not endanger the current situation, as data from competent institutions show a constant trend of violation of children's rights, and in particular the increase in domestic violence where children are again the most frequent victim. This report, according to the HSLS Club, provides good insight into the overall issue of children's rights and review of the recommendations sent to the authorities of the State Administration by the Ombudsman for children. The report shows that we have... which relate to the violation of the rights of children, and above all to the right to live with parents and parental care and to the right to protection against violence. [[You don't understand.]] What we must, in fact, have a sad finding that violence is increasingly present in our society. Violence against children is a violation of their human rights, a disturbing reality in our society with which I say simply cannot remain only at the conclusion of this report but must try to find the mechanisms that could fix this situation. Although the consequences vary depending on the nature and severity of the violence committed, short-term and long-term consequences for children are often severe and very harmful, and physical and emotional and psychological scars can have serious and lasting consequences for the development of the child, his health and his ability to learn. That's exactly how much this childhood trauma really is if it's really generated and... as much as I can actually create one environment for a happier and more satisfying and better society. [[You don't understand.]] There is, however, the rights of children who are members of the national minority, the Ombudsman for children does not keep official statistics on the nationality of children in... on the violation of rights because respecting the principles of equality and... the legality of national identification shall not be a cause of preferential status or discrimination. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, we need to be aware that children who are members of national minorities are constantly violated by Roma children, and in particular the problem is to involve the overall population of Roma children in the education and education system. But here we still have to stop a little bit and we like to declare ourselves a multicultural country, but it's very dangerous if we impose our own cultural standards on another culture, and right then we really avoid this... around Eurocenterism that we belong to Western Christian civilization, and then we think that others have to act the way we do. So with regard to this whole Roma complex at all, and in this case, and Roma children, we must be very careful that we are also not actually doing violence, and all in the name of the fact that we want to defend their rights. Then I also think that my colleague Lalic pointed out here a very important, problem that is the relationship between the village and the city. Indeed, we cannot be a society of unequal odds simply because someone lives outside the city in a rural area that is why he must be automatically punished. That is exactly what this intervention of a state is, in fact, going to do everything to really be a society of equal, or equal chances, and indeed, that exactly the whole series of talented children does not fail because no one could offer them a chance. And I say in this context and minority children and at all this problem we can talk about resolving their rights and by their families, local communities and bodies of the state administration that are not taking enough measures to solve this problem as quickly and as soon as possible. Furthermore, it is a devastating fact in the report that citizens continue to complain in a large number and make complaints about the work of the Centre for Social Care, in particular because of inactive participation in judicial proceedings and... to help parents with their child’s rights. [[You don't understand.]] I think that in the new law that is currently being talked about free legal aid that it will be one help to solve this problem, but we must certainly ask ourselves, in the sense of the existence of these social care centres, if there really is a whole series of complaints about their work, and I am telling us that they have a very important role and jurisdiction through the protection of children's rights, and these cases of unprofessional doing business must be eliminated as quickly as possible and prevented and finally sanctioned. The recommendations, i.e. the measures directed by the Advocate General to the authorities to prevent harmful actions that threaten children's rights and interests, are good. First of all, we think about insurance services, court duty when it comes to family legal protection, then the establishment of a task force between the competent ministries in the procedures of carrying out the tasks of handing over the child to the parent who will live with him and to meet and associate the parents with the child, but the report does not show whether the state authorities have accepted... Recommendations, if they've reported to the D.A., that's exactly the thing that really doesn't just stay at the findings... [[You don't understand.]] A good report rather than we really need to see what the answer of those who actually have the mechanisms of power to solve these things, but I say once again on behalf of the club we will support this report and give full support otherwise in the further work of the institution. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88252	Thank you very much. At 10.05, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88253	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed child counsellor with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. The first thing I would like to say, and as some colleagues have pointed out in particular, is that this report is not only done analytically, that it can be a basis for even professional and training and as a basis for research. It has been done in such a way that it is evident that there is no administration at all, that behind this report, almost all of these particular numbers, there is a special concern for the Ombudsman and her entire office that things change and even when she does not have the entire office available, there are no instruments available to help children, i.e. first and their families, and in such a way and children. Often we have, especially so I would say for a decade, talk about the issue that until then was taboo the subject of violence against children above all in the family. However, what I would particularly like to highlight in this brief debate, which is the child’s attorney, which then results in the exercise of all other rights, that is, all other violations of these rights, which are economic and social rights of children, that is, their families. The growing number of Croatian families facing poverty is increasing. With one of the most terrible facts, children suffer the most in such a situation. It's what's most visible in the report, and it's frustrating the attorney general and the entire office. Of course, the Center for Social Care is being informed, but the situation in our society is well known when parents even work, but they didn't get paid and the Centre for Social Care takes away children. So, after the worker has been deprived of his basic, fundamental right, the right to a fair profit, or right to what, such pay in our terms, such parents are still eventually taken away by children because the Center then has no... another mechanism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems more important to me that one step in social reform, i.e. in recognising something that particularly endangers society, and then, and how the family is the foundation of this society, and when we talk about this topic and children, then we can especially be sensitive and treat wage defaults, that is to say, pay workers as something that is due to every social contempt and condemnation, and try and try and change that situation in the cause, and not then resolve the different consequences, because then that is the role that, as much as it is able to take over the state. Therefore, I see no reason to protect those who take advantage of parents, who violate families, who do not pay workers. Everywhere, actually in those countries that take care of that social moment of pay is such that it is not only a salary for a worker, but it is a salary for a family, a family salary, so a worker will be able to support his family members, especially children. That's something, I don't think there should be a dispute here in this house where it's decided and where laws are made. Therefore, we are primarily invited to look at these proposals legally, to see in them the danger of not being able to be realised by fundamental human rights, fundamentally then family law and fundamental children's rights, especially when even parents are not to blame for it. We're often deaf to it. Again we have a situation in Croatia that a large number of employers,... employers who do not pay salaries or not to the extent that the family can survive, let alone live with dignity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How, then, such a child’s family goes on to exercise its rights, educational rights, health rights, and even the right to protection from violence. Therefore, all rights are meaningless if the economic and social rights of the family are trampled and, above all, children. In such conditions where more and more families face poverty and where often what our electronic media promotes violence is then logically, as a logical consequence of one abnormal condition that children are also exposed to such violence, that these are behavioral matrixes, that it is not a standard of good attention to another, care for another, but crush him, destroy him, humiliate him. So we have to keep in mind what content our children are and what are the values we want to promote in society. A growing number of children who at a lower age show just such qualities of violence, but these are not such forms of children’s playfulness that sometimes know to cross the border and which always and in the development of each of us may have been in that earlier age, but such exposure to such content then leads to such a problem resulting from minor violence. Violence, minor violence in Croatia, unfortunately, is on the rise. There are also increasing crimes where children are victims of violence of different forms. Speaking of this, I'd like to warn you of something that we in our society have completely forgotten. All international conventions prevent and defend the use of children in armed conflicts. It wasn’t rare, or almost every place, especially the one most injured in the Homeland War, that even minors defended the country. Now society is deafening, and international conventions say prevent and such children, minors cannot exercise the rights that other defenders have. Well, when society and the state didn't prevent a minor from participating in an armed conflict, now the greatest injustice would be that part of our long-term population, and they feel it's a single injustice not to participate in a group of defenders and exercise those rights that belong to them. However, to go back to what I wanted to point out in the introduction, that there is no reason to refuse, we have already done this in the club several times, we had this in 2003 in the paper of the Penal Code for non-payment of wages to be treated as a criminal offence. We are in vain of questions, or praises about family as a basis for society if we do not want to protect our family in that basic provision, the right to economic and social security, especially where parents or parents work. Therefore, the time I think is fully matured that we treat a worker's salary as a felony. But also to make sure that legal decisions allow that salary to be not just any one, but to pay a decent life for the workers and their families, above all their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88254	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mrs. Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88255	Dear Vice President, Mrs. Anticevic! I agree with you that the basis of financial and income payments is one of the essential factors and I advocate what you stand for, that this is treated as a criminal offence. But I have to make it right. This is not the basis for a parent to be deprived of parental rights but, in my profession and in practice, I have seen in many cases where "good standing" families were deprived of parental law. So the pay itself is not a guarantee that, parenting will be responsible [[/Intruder: guaranteed. Yeah. Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88256	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh's turn. We have one, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88257	... with what the colleague said but was injured by the Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this was a typical replica, not a correction of an incorrect quote, because I was talking about one aspect... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88258	She's corrected in her opinion an incorrect allegation...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88259	Well, you can't correct your opinion. We're correcting the facts. Because someone can... Mr. Vice President! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone might think it's autumn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88260	You're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88261	We can make things all the way to absurdity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88262	So she gave the facts and, in her opinion, corrected the incorrect assumption. I don't judge. However, you have also injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not indicated the article you are referring to. Mrs. Chickesh. Here you go. You're having an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88263	... I have to be the present committee. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88264	You gave up. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is Mrs. Ljubica Brdarić's turn. There's no Mrs. Brdaric. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Bishop Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I find it unclear why this point and this document is called the Attorney General's Report when she's a woman's attorney. The more the next point is the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, where it is already visible from the title that it is a woman. If that is the formal name of the institution, which it is, I suggest that all three institutions of the Advocate and Advocate General be renamed the Ombudsman, so we would have, instead of the Attorney General's Office, the Public Attorney's Office. Instead of a lawyer for the kids, a child's attorney, a child's attorney. And instead of a lawyer or a lawyer for gender equality, the Attorney General for Gender Equality. These would be better names because each of these institutions is not an individual but a whole team of people working on these jobs. And that's how we'd avoid any sex in the name of an institution. But let me get back to the report. Although this report is divided into 12 chapters, I would divide it into two large units. One of the activities of the Ombudsman is to protect children's rights in concrete cases and preventative action in the protection of the most endangered categories of children. The second large part is the activities of the Advocate General relating to the promotion and protection of children's rights as well as active participation and recommendations in the process of making acts and measures relating to children's rights. As well as in the debate on the Ombudsman's report, I commend and fully support the work of the Ombudsman for children. Speaking of this report, I would like to highlight only two cases related to the chapter on the rights of children involved in sports and I have met personally during the process of passing the Sport Act. It's a brutal violation of the rights and freedom of the teens by the coaches or the club in the swimming sport. In the first example, it was a trainer who asked his swimmers as a condition to participate in the competitions to make sure that as a supplement to the diet he had sold them vitamins, and without special declarations of manufacturers and content, at the price he had determined and which was twice as high as the price of similar preparations on the market. He also requested the mandatory use of hormone preparations with the content of male hormones with the aim of increasing muscle mass, which resulted in increased hairiness of girls. After the unsuccessful intervention of the parents of a girl in the club management, they were forced to write their child out of the club and out of sports with the aim of preserving her health. This is an evident example of putting the interests of results and the prestige of the club above the rights and interests and health of the child. Another example refers to a boy who, after a conflict with a coach, asked for a club card to continue his sports activities at another club. But the club's answer was astounding. In fact, if the transitions to another club asked him to pay for the club's compensation for all training, equipment and part-time training for all years of sports. As the amount of over 15,000 euros was worked, it is clear that neither parents nor the new club could pay the required amount, given the fact that it was a young and unaffiliated swimmer without a signed professional or sponsorship contract. As in the previous case, the result was that this young swimmer had stopped playing sports. These aren't isolated cases, unfortunately. I believe you all remember the case of the great hope of Croatian tennis Mirjana Lucic, who has escaped to America since her father's abuse of coaches along with her mother, sisters and brothers. My father went through with no consequences. No, there are few cases of mental and even physical abuse of sports children. And that is why I support the Ombudsman's initiative on the obligation of additional training of trainers on the rights and well-being of children participating in the current process in order for their health and well-being to be above the interest of achieving results. And so the current process doesn't have a negative impact on the final formation of the child's personality. I would also like to remind myself of the procedure for proposing and discussing the introduction of sexual education under the health education programme at school. During the stands, public debates and round tables on this topic, the Ombudsman for children was shown negatively about both proposed programmes, pointing to their specific shortcomings, which was found by the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Ljubicic, who was incompetent, uneducated and incompetent. This is indeed inadmissible and has directly offended and demeaned the Croatian Parliament since the Ombudsman is a representative and commissioner of the Assembly in the area of protection of children and their rights. Given the fact that such a move has passed without any consequences, and even the slightest criticism of the government and prime ministers, it is another proof of the government's defamation and defamation of the parliament. I will not specifically refer to certain areas of this report but once again I am showing full recognition and support for the actions of the Ombudsman for children as well as this report. However, I must stress my success in the attorney's work despite such a large business by modest means of around 3 million kunas that have been reduced by rebalance to 2.8 of which 2.7 million have been realised and although the office of the planned 12 has only 8 employees. I am therefore finally expressing my support for this report once again, noting the need to amend provisions which are not binding on the authorities of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88266	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88267	Thank you very much. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague that the government has shown haughtiness to Minister Ljubicic's statement. This is not true because the statement referred only to the lawyer's expertise and not to her dignity, her function, her actions and her role. So it's not about haughtiness, it's about the introduction of the necessary component of expertise in solving such serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88268	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88269	Honored Madam Vice President. In fact, I have come to praise in some way the report relating to the year of the big crisis of the Ombudsman for children, meaning when Croatia's public trust in that institution was significantly marred by unfortunate events. I am pleased that the new leadership of this attorney general has shown genuine interest in children. It's convenient, there's a third of the employees, all three of them came in white, which is also very convenient because even though it would be good for them to have some kind of flower in the lapel. As far as children are concerned, one area that is completely undefined in Croatia is the apparition or apparition or appearance of children in mass media. In the last issue of Globus, I felt so intimately fortunate because I saw the grandchildren from our colleague Andrija Hebrang who looked like little angels. However, trouble is that children sometimes appear in positive and negative contexts. You have a little girl, a beautiful little girl of a famous Croatian actress who had an unfortunate destiny and died, who had been exposed for months and weeks to incredible pressures, shame for a performance in which her late mother was depicted as a reflection of the corruption of glambiosis, tycoonisation and the lowest rank. You often have children from such families who are neither guilty nor obliged to suffer. As for the very position of children in Croatia, I think we are moving between two extremes today, a rather strange pedocentrism of child idealization and childhood although among children there are various creatures, aggressive, intolerable, hellish, who draw grandfathers and grandmothers for ears, who persecute pets and in relation to which they should and are useful to apply reasonable force. Or not perhaps physical forces, not locusts that once reportedly grew from heaven but must be remembered for the fact that children and childhood should not be idealized in this pedocentric sense, which was even in one period of pedagogy very popular in Europe but today comes under great criticism. At the same time, I think this Attorney General should apply the zero tolerance strategy to proven family abusers who continue to act freely in public. The most escalating example is Mr. Sretko Jurdana, who was young his own drunk wife, barely protected himself from a child who wanted to protect his own mother, and still that man acts as a kind of moral producer and censor in the Croatian public, I have not seen anything happen to him. At the same time, the weekly in which he writes for many reasons was triumphantly writing about the violence of a former ambassador and not seeing this great contradiction in the act itself. As far as the position of a child in Croatian society is concerned, we need to ask ourselves what kind of environment Croatian children are growing up in today, how much defence counsel can do. I see how many, as far as I can see, less than ten people there, five officials and three officials so that both this High House and the Croatian public must have real ideas about how many people there are, which you can do at all. You can act symbolically, pedagoguely, you can put pressure on the government here and there, but you cannot change the situation and the cultural climate in which Croatian children grow up. As for our children and as far as our families are concerned, I am a deep belief based on the experience of travel around the world that the Croatian family is still in very good condition. It means that children in Croatia are quite normal children, that the time that comes for us is a worrying time, a time of Americanization, a time of great domination of aggression. Look, verbal aggression in mass media, so if you want on Croatian national television, it has exceeded all limits of good taste. So, if you want to win today's Croatian Journalist Society Award, you must welcome former Prime Minister Ivica Racan and current Prime Minister Ivo Sanader as the last recipient, so you must welcome him as enemies. Insult them, humiliate them. The culture of good household was lost on Croatian state television and then you will receive the Croatian Journalist Society Award. If you're educated, if you're sophisticated, if you're a good host, if you're competent, you don't stand a chance. This is true for all of Croatia's national television. It means that verbal aggression, inconsistency, primitiveism has become a model of behavior. Children are very receptive creatures. They're watching what's going on. They see what Croatian society is like. Croatian society is such that the 200 families around which a myth has been created for 15 years and more than only 50 families in Croatia are owned by Croatia. Other kids see it. So these 50 families own around EUR 4 billion. The owners of foreign banks, which have been rescheduled with EUR 15 billion, sold for a billion and are now worth over EUR 40 billion, are the real owners of Croatia. In such situations of wild, vicious capitalism, you have a new generation of mothers and fathers who get up in the morning at 5:00, come home from work at 8:00 a.m. and have no theoretical chance of meeting organizations that fight or quasi fighting for women's rights. Because their biorhythms have been divulged. These get up at 4:00 in the morning. They travel through public means of transport. They've been working on Saturdays and Sundays. In my immediate neighborhood, there are several women working in shops. They have to give false reports that they don't work for weeks and total receive 40, 50 kuna for the area. So when we talk about the rights of a child, they need to be placed in a real, cultural, social and every other context. As far as specific rights are concerned, where I would like to draw your attention, and this will end yesterday, and on Croatian mass media, the results of a major research on health in Croatia have been published. And you noticed there's one information that's scary and I'm already tired of repeating. It's a huge terror, unscrupulous terror that smokers work not only in this High House but in cars and families. They poison their own children, their own wives, their own husbands. They're aggressive. They, in fact, can't handle it. Here's to you, a very useful opportunity not to have our esteemed president to whom I've sent several memos, here I am speaking to you as the leader of the coalition to do something as vice president of the Parliament to finally protect yourself from those smokers and to declare this a non-smoking institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88270	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is a colleague of attorneys Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88271	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Advocates with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues I would actually briefly refer to some parts of the report essentially by supporting the work of the attorney and her co-workers who really are here and through this report showed a huge work in fact. And what may be the most important of all is that after all those events that were successful in preserving the work or the institution itself as a guardian for children. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, this is what's exactly called a child counsel's report because it's in, because that's what the law actually says. The Attorney General's Law, the Child's Attorney General. But that's the problem now, maybe all our other laws aren't written in male male and female. I would especially like to refer to this part of the issue of violence and in fact to any kind of violence when it comes to children. It's not just about domestic violence. It's also about violence shown by peers and various other forms of violence through educational and educational institutions. And in fact, I should be further concerned with whether we as a society are doing enough to prevent all kinds of violence, and then especially when it comes to violence, violence against children. I agree, here's a proposal actually by the attorney general to go even with a special law on child protection against all kinds of violence. But I want to warn you of the other law that is still in force, which is the Law on protection against domestic violence. So who in one segment also treats this issue and asks the government to finally come out, or before the Parliament with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on protection against domestic violence or ultimately with a brand-new bill because, as far as I can see, it's been standing in someone's drawers for months now. Especially when it comes to children, I would like to warn myself of an absolute lack of education through an educational process in the prevention of violence. I will remind you that in this Parliament too, it seems to me, on two occasions, during the meetings of the Committee on Gender Equality, we have treated the issue of violence in schools or violence in adolescence. For me, it is absolutely unacceptable that this problem and work to prevent gender-related violence or violence in adolescent relationships is exclusively transferred to the non-governmental sector. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this has actually become a practice, so some of these topics have generally been transferred to the non-governmental sector. I'm going to tie this to the last thing that happened and it's happening with the problem of introducing health care education into our schools that I really think someone should be what kind of magician to get some kind of over-the-top program into our school programs, but since this fall, the way it's been promised, that's how it's supposed to be. And here, I have to mention here, I am fully represented as a parliamentary representative by the statement that the Ombudsman gave for the introduction and problem of health care in schools and when she received the return that her expertise was questionable in this regard, and I would still refer to it then, so I would say that the question and expertise of our individual ministers, and Mr. Ljubicic is here from this very point of view answering a representative question that what we would like to be health care, through health care, will also teach children about washing hands anyway. I mean, please, and at the same time we're talking about health issues, issues of sexually transmitted diseases, about "ix" other issues. Therefore, so much when it comes to expertise. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. We have a strategy to protect against domestic violence. We have protocol on conduct. Through this protocol certain and very large obligations and responsibilities are also at our educational institutions. I claim to be absolutely starting with our principals, every honour of exceptions, but from the principal to the professor and also professional staff in schools they are not sufficiently familiar with the protocol on the handling of domestic violence cases. And not to say further what about the coordination between the different institutions on which the protocol is particularly dependent. I'd like to ask the D.A.'s office to deal with this problem. Somewhere, I've only got one case left now but that's what it looks like to me a few months ago when a little girl was attacked at Graphics School. In fact, it was sexual harassment and assault, and then it happened that a pedagogical school actually asks the police what he should be doing right now, not to say that it was absolutely unrecognizable, was not recognized as violence. One might say that these are individual cases, but each case should pay attention, in fact, to warn and try to change the current practice. Further, what I want to say about children’s problems, that is, the right to live with parents and parental care. I will not speak at all here at all about the issue of the Centre for Social Care, except to say that I believe that this whole area is absolutely neglected through the work of the Ministry and through the work of the Government as a whole. I would especially like to draw attention to the issue of children who should exercise the right to support by parents who do not live with them, which is therefore the problem of children in one parent family. We've got somewhere today based on that data that's being run through associations, no official statistics. About 18% of families in Croatia are one parent family. Some 250,000 children live through this parent family. I, of course, ask the question in what way and how does the state take extra care of those children who are in a special position? I'm not talking about parents right now, but these families are in a particularly sensitive position. But responsibly, the state doesn't recognize their needs enough. We talked about the alimony fund a few, three years ago, in 2004, I call it that because it's about the most popular. Please, two bill proposals were in the process of this House. Both were rejected by the government, as the government was said to come forward with its proposal. 20 million kunas I remind again that year were allocated, provided for in one of the items. At the end of the day, no laws, no money. We have changed the provisions of the Penal Code, so we have even prescribed that if I do not cheat and punish those who do not pay, that is, do not pay child support, or a certain amount. I'm afraid we didn't do anything special about it. I guess we're just overcrowded or we're gonna overcrowd our prisons anyway. And finally, what I want to specifically warn and ask the D.A. not to give up in that part, which is the problem of using children through advertising. In today's world where everyone is running for as much money as possible, for the greater the profit, absolutely no one is willing to harm their advertising of their own products and to lure me into saying that it is very useful for children. I said, I don't think I should know a special service in your office that will keep track of all possible radio and television programs for 24 hours because the commercials are spinning what they say day and night. Finally, I would also like to thank the Advocate's Office for the recent family day's support for the debate held on the Committee on Gender Equality, which concerned the position, i.e. the right of birth and the position of the recipient. I am now sending the team today a letter to the Minister of Health, which warns me that the subject has been unfavorable because of the fact that they were forced to resign from the Croatian Association of Primaries because of blackmail from their bosses. But that's the story. We'll move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88272	Thank you very much, colleague. Time. The following is the debated colleague Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88273	Thank you, Madam Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I believe you heard some shocking news this morning that in Grazac the mother tried to hang her two children, so she failed to hang herself. Here, that's another sad statistic and we're wondering where the surveillance is. So, who was in charge of this family, or who was not doing it, and who would be responsible. First, I'd like to thank the D.A.'s office for the good report and for covering all the vulnerable groups. So, groups of vulnerable children. But I will look back at children with developmental difficulties. The number of 18634 is very large, especially when we are aware that it is someone's life, name and last name, someone's child, a child with developmental difficulties. That's exactly how many live in our country with a very questionable quality of life. Most of them fall under the social care system and do not enjoy the same level of rights as their peers in any area regardless of existing legislation, international documents such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, our system deliberately or unwittingly overlooks the needs of children with developmental difficulties so that they are often not recognized in the health care system, preschool education, school education system, social care system. Parents like their children don't usually have the right to choose either, or. Let's just say the status that is now being introduced by a parent who is highly enquired and I'm asking the D.A.'s attorney to give him a good reading, because it seems to me that my parents will in one way be valued. I could also give a few thousand examples and explain each of them as unique and special, because that is exactly what these children and their parents are like – unique and special. The daily collision with the administration, the rigidity of the Constitution, makes their position even more difficult. In a sea of problems, I would like to put the emphasis on the following: a lack of disorganised, I dare say a still undeveloped early intervention system including family support, lack of sufficient number of trained experts to carry out early interventions, insufficient capacity of experts, logos, working therapists, rehabilitators, physiotherapists. The inability to involve children with developmental difficulties in the regular school system, although some positive examples can be set. Insufficiently developed so-called Patronage. Education or training of children with intellectual disabilities, autism and similar spectrum in social care institutions where the number of professional associates is defined by the Regulation and does not respect the real needs for these professional teams. Centres providing half-day and daily accommodation are too small. A large number of children from remote parts of the country who have no contact with the family are located on weekly and permanent accommodation in Zagreb, i.e. several times a year. There's a direct violation of the right to the family. The lack of individual education and educational plans either exists on paper, i.e. their non-implementation and general lack of individual work, although this is the most efficient way of working. We're still running a bad methodology. Non-implementation of programs consistent with individual opportunities of a child in the field of isolation, learning daily activities for children with a difficult degree of intellectual difficulties. Resistance to the introduction of new rehabilitation and rehabilitation procedures. Insufficient communication with parents, resulting in a lack of quality cooperation. I could list thousands more and thousands of violations of rights from various systems. However, the overall problem is that there is a black number of children not covered by any form of rehabilitation or support, especially children living in the islands and rural areas of our country. I would like to set an example recently from a round table in Slavonski Brod when we were a representative myself, then a lady from the Attorney's Office, a few advisors from several ministries where they allowed themselves to engage with their parents, so ministers' advisors for claiming that parents were sufficiently informed about their rights and that they could always get information when they wanted to, what their parents complained about. There was a direct verbal conflict. And they know well that our system doesn't work, that parents find it hard to get information, that their children are kicked out of the system, or not out of all but generally don't enjoy the fullness of their children's rights as well as all the other children. The problem that stands out in the report is the lack of information from the parents. So that's where I'm bound to the Slavon ship. Especially in smaller areas where there is no driving force of parent associations. The system did not provide mechanisms to inform parents in a timely manner in a quality, adequate and appropriate manner. I've listed only some of the problems children face with developmental difficulties and their parents. In the end, I wonder where the system is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88274	Thank you, colleague. The following was reported for the debate by Jagoda MP Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88275	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my contribution, I would allow myself a little dyspression. Just yesterday, I thought there was a big public halabuca against a March beer commercial. The lifts seem to me to be the Association for Gender Equality, for the protection of women, and I don't know who else claiming that this ad puts a woman in an unworthy position since she shows up with bags full of beer bottles, her wife is not interested in those and her hairstyle but is just a bottle of beer. All right, I don't think that advertising is better or worse than most of the idiotic commercials we watch every day. But it's interesting how no one before, here it will be for a year, I haven't raised my voice, although I've warned several times on our committees, I haven't raised my voice against a situation on HTV that happened during last year's football championship when a German porn commercial appeared at the stop about 21 o'clock. Nothing to anyone. I warned some people the second day that I thought might be something I could do. Nothing happened, and when I set that example twice on our Information Committee, and even in the debate on the Croatian Broadcasting Report, the then director of the television programme told me very calmly that she had nothing to do with it, because the break was obviously in the package with this transfer from Germany, so that came in. I still believe today that there is no accidental entry into the national television program, especially in situations where hidden dangers arise for children. We are here, of course, talking about the Ombudsman's report for children, which is covered by a series of points, a series of different problems. This report really touches a very, very large spectrum of problems. However, I claim that there are dangers for children who are "hidden", under quotes, one of them is this particular example, and he is actually referring to one I would now say a little bit and a devastating terror of the media over children. And that's the media of all kinds. Not only electronic but also written in a complete lack of criteria that are advertised to these children, how and how they accept it. Of course, one reflection of all this and what might also be of interest to the Ombudsman for children, which is the everyday life of children who have begun to come down in the days when, who should be reserved for family gatherings, would begin to go down to large shopping malls where children practically spend the whole day with their parents. In fact, parents don't go there anymore to do shopping, but they declare it a day-long reunion, so they leave their children in a variety of manual kindergartens or playrooms, or they simply let them have a barbecue, ride their bikes while they're not only buying one coffee, another coffee, fifth coffee, and so goes the day, and they all have some alibi that they've spent the day together and they've been very nice friends. I think it's something that can greatly affect what happens to children later if these children grow up in the way of an absolute consumer mentality that even takes place in their leisure hours. Of course, I think that this is a very responsible job that is well done, so I think this report is also very correct. The second problem relates to the lawyer's influence as far as she can and she has brought it up and forth, to amendments to the Penal Code and to co-operation with the MUP. I think that this demand for amendments to the Penal Code should not only support but also deepen, and we should constantly, permanently actually work on this issue, given that one of the problems of violence against children, which is paedophilia, is no longer, so this is one global problem today, it takes more and more wave in the whole world, but with us, and it seems to me that the penalties are by no means appropriate, that they are in some way covering individual holes and even in the law, and that the attorney for children should be even more advocated that this part of the Penal Code is being amended. On the other hand, the report highlights cooperation with the MUP, which the Ombudsman says is very good and I absolutely support it, and I think it is one of the best and most effective forms of cooperation on special prevention of certain situations, and if, of course, it comes to them, to the most effective regulation of those who have to do so and who have to protect children. Anyway, I'm not going to be long because if we were to go from point to point, then we'd see how complex this problem is, how complex it's been to this day, but how much more does it really have to be done? Because I'm saying it seems to me that this particular violence against children is not only with us but also in the world, today it is taking the form of a real directional epidemic that I don't know who should be involved in one general movement can at least put an end to it to protect the children. And once again, I will return to the influence of the media, which seems to me today to be exerting on young people one of the most devastating violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88276	Thank you very much, colleague. First replica, Agent Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88277	Thank you. I would, in fact, through my replica by supporting Mrs. Advocacy, a fellow representative in the part where she spoke about the incomparability of advertising of various kinds and advertising when it comes to television. You also mentioned last year's situation when there was a football championship and with that one commercial purely pornographic content. I'm actually taking the opportunity to then call on the government and colleagues and colleagues from HDZ to support if I'm not mistaken, the attorney for children's efforts to through the Law on Electronic Media, it seems to me that in this sense it is going, and he should come to us for another reading if I'm not mistaken, support the proposal to finally define what pornographic content is and what is not. And when we define it, then, of course, we'll be able to raise our voice and call and appeal to the law. Because now, unfortunately, in our legislation, it is not clear, so everyone interprets it and draws the limits as it suits him at what time. So this is a public invitation to support the child's attorney and in her efforts to establish, through the Law on Electronic Media, what it is, pornographic content.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88278	Thank you very much. You have the right to answer if you want. No, I don't. The next replica, representative of Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88279	Thank you very much. I'd replicate here to my colleague, so I'd go up to this replica of Mrs. Sobol when she was talking about television. We're talking about an ad on television that was let's say in that term, none of you even mentioned what's going on with your cell phones. Today, you have hundreds of times worse content in schools where children are texted, cell phones are sent, so it's impossible, or everyone in your home today we have satellites. So one commercial, not that I'm defending Croatian television, it turned out to be one thing, and we're now focusing on such things because of one commercial, and today our kids on their phones have the complete content of those much worse things that they download from the Internet and it can't be prevented. Maybe let's say what's impossible, it's impossible to ban a child from having a cell phone, because every child has a cell phone. How am I going to stop him from having what he has at school? In my opinion, let's say one recklessness of television that she played that commercial, but on the other hand, we have a hundred times worse things going on in schools, even in elementary schools, let alone in high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88280	Thank you very much, colleague. I find that there are no more reports. I call on Attorney General Mila Jelavic for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88281	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am truly grateful for these discussions we heard last week on Friday and today, because many of them match those that are both positions and offices and in which direction and direction and in order to protect the best interests of the children's offices and works. Many of them will give us the incentive to engage more in the areas in which you have pointed out here, which is also mentioned in a discussion because of us, the number of us who work, has simply not come to the turn. Not that we are not aware of it and not that we do not feel that there is no need to work in different areas, but simply that with eight people at this time and these circumstances was not possible, which does not mean that we will not, and that we will not really focus our work on protecting ourselves in all those areas where we are being reported for child rights violations, which we see for ourselves. There have been numerous mentions of the appearance of children in the media, protection of privacy, protection from advertising, inappropriate content, and I must point out that almost all this time since last year, and it continues and is now represented by very intensive work in the area. Not a single address, not a single statement, not a single activity with the media goes away without pointing to the necessity of respecting the privacy of children, the need to keep identity data, the obligation to throw inappropriate contents out of the media of all kinds. In this direction we also had individual contacts as well as contacts and applications to the Council for Electronic Media, the Croatian Press Society, and finally I use the opportunity to invite you, you who can come to the press house on Tuesday next 29 May at 10 p.m. where we also organise a public hearing together with the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Interior on the subject of "protection of the privacy of children in the media". We'd be delighted if you could join us. I must point out that we have repeatedly pointed out and pointed out that this is the process in which we seek and insist that advertising be removed first from the space where children are mostly staying. It refers to schools, it refers to kindergartens, it refers to institutions where children live and stay, and to ads of inappropriate content, no matter where they are we also react, we send applications to the State Inspectorate, we ask them to move away and that those who are behind these ads are treated appropriately. Regarding the violence that has also been strongly represented almost in all discussions, unfortunately, that is, the area that brings us all together, which requires us to target all our strength and energy in this direction and the position of the Advocate General's Office for Children is that the most effective in this area of early prevention means through learning the skills of self-defense, through learning non-violent conflict resolution, through learning the skills of communication. I'm sure if we have these contents represented, I'd dare say from kindergarten that we're going to have fewer cases in which we're going to have to react later when there's violence. I have to mention the multidisciplinary of the office. On several occasions, we have highlighted the expertise, intricacies, whether we are trained to report, or to give our opinion regarding the different kinds of problems that we see as really very broad and that the beauty of the problems, or the beauty of children's rights that we are dealing with is very, very wide. I have to point out the multidisciplinaryity. So in our office besides lawyers, psychologists, social workers, defecologists, educators, means all those professions that are most often in contact with children either through educational and educational work, either through all other areas of child rights protection. On behalf of the law, I must admit that what we've heard today about the law's incomparableness, unfortunately, is not the first time we've heard it, and probably in that direction, it would be good to even the title for all the other defenses, so we don't have any differences, but also a problem in this gender sense. I would also mention that it's important, in fact, that for a moment, I'm just going to go back to violence that it's important that psychosocial treatments that bullys do, it's important that they be conducted. Namely, only punishing, only giving sentences, serving prison sentences or any other person brings not only the result in themselves, but also the world's experiences tell us, how they direct increased and intense and appropriate work with bullyes in terms of psychosocial treatment almost gives us a very high percentage of success in family abusers, and all others in such cases when psychosocial treatment programs rarely occur as repeaters of violence either against children or in the family or in any other way. What I must mention is that here is also a violation of children's rights in situations of separate parents' lives, i.e. in situations where parents stop living together, whether there is an interruption of a marriage or an extramarital community that very often and unconsciously, for some time I am sure and consciously violate children's rights, deny meetings and association with other parents, which shows, in fact, a number of others, which points to the fact that joint parental care as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also our regulations that we have incorporated into family legislation and others regarding child protection have not come to life. This points to the necessity of educating all of us, meaning both experts and parents on the importance of shared parental care because the fact that we end together does not mean the end of parenting. Common parental care involves making daily decisions because in one day each parent faces a lot of challenges and it is important that the decisions they make in the interests of children actually be decisions that they make together. I'll just say it for the kids who ask. I think it's a problem that's also recognized in your discussions as a problem that unfortunately here has not been bypassed by our country, and that's why we initiated last year with all the state bodies that have ties and contact with these children, meaning the MUP, the State's Attorney's Office, the Court, the Centre for Social Care, the NGO, and in this year we've had several activities to improve the work of the institutions and all of us to protect these children. Namely, any time, any place or space, is a danger to these children because children are actually unprotected, subject to various types of violence against them additionally. And I think it's important that everyone within the jurisdiction takes all that to prevent this kind of child appearance and to, because we all know who's behind it. Children do not go on their own initiative, and children go on to beg because they want them to, but simply because someone organizes them. And in the end, I will actually end up with the satisfaction of having your discussions, expressing the satisfaction that your discussions we heard on Friday and today, in fact, all of the order, regardless of the meaning of neglecting political belonging, are directed as the best interests of children. It's both a course and a task and an office. And that's the only way the office works. So, without any belonging or colour, the office simply follows and protects the best interest of the child, because we think that's our job too, because every child in the treatment of either ours or anyone else, it's worth the attention, it's worth protecting or obliging us to all of this together. And I have to point out that when we talk about the number of cases, the numbers that are mentioned in the report, I just want to mention, although I'm sure that's also in your perception, that it's about a thousand and 59 not only cases, but that behind those cases is actually about a number of children. So, the children who were in individual treatment of the office were, and I can mention that according to our statistics, it's almost 950 children. However, a much larger number is covered and it is difficult even to assess which number our recommendations are, with a focus on or on making recommendations concerning and concerning the protection of a number of children, individual groups or children in general. Here, thank you very much. I'll finish this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88282	Thank you very much, Attorney General. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-18-0.u88283	My colleagues and colleagues are going to vote if we have a quorum. Please engage. Come on, come on, come on, come on, I'm asking my colleagues to come in, please. What about technique? If some of them don't have keys, then we'll have to count from above. Please engage. Did you get involved? Please turn yourself in. Can we please see the quorum? 80. Thank you. We can get started. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006 is hereby adopted. Please engage and vote. The result? 84 for unanimous. Accepted means a report with 84 votes.
