ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96621	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System at its meeting yesterday discussed the rules, the new rules on the conduct of electronic media in, during the election promotion. He didn't accept it, I have to say right away, he didn't accept the proposal. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at yesterday's session discussed the proposal of opposition clubs, the proposal for rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion. After the debate that lasted in the interruptions a little longer, there was a consensus between club presidents, but I have to say in one tolerated atmosphere, we've tried a lot and we've agreed on a lot. However, we did not reach that final consensus. The board rejected the club's proposal to go with the new rules. However, the Committee has established a proposal for a decision to amend the rules in force. We have estimated that the proposal for new rules would not be in line with the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia for a clear reason because the proposal for new rules leaves out many of the important provisions that the Law on Elections requires that the rules be discussed. The rules release those essential declarations that the law binds us to, and that is equal opportunity, equal chances for all participants in the election. This means regardless of the parties were small, were large, lists were independent, lists of candidates of national minorities, all in the elections under our Electoral Law must have equal treatment and all must have the same right to present their programmes via electronic media. These basic declarations in the new rules have been dropped in several places, and many of the things the law has decreed that we need to work out the rules, the proposals that clubs have put down in jurisdiction or give jurisdiction to publishers. We simply believe that it is not from the aspect of the Law on Elections, that it is not in accordance with the law and, of course, it is difficult for such rules to withstand a serious legal procedure in the Constitutional Court. And so I think the fundamental issue here is to fight and to preserve the legality of electoral promotion and the legality of the whole procedure. But we're aware of, of course, other facts, that the promotion that it's governed by the rules in force, it's really not attractive, it's not interesting and actually people don't perceive it. And so on the Committee on the Constitution, we made changes to the current rules where I think we've made a lot of things right and we've corrected which colleagues from the opposition clubs are proposing, we've installed a lot of things inside, and it seems to me that we've raised one level, given one better opportunity for the publishers to make pre-election promotion far more interesting, and yet not to violate that fundamental legal principle of equal opportunities for all. The most important thing we did, we actually threw out that 45-minute show that really wasn't visible, where all the participants of the election had the right 45 minutes to suppress the program on TV and around midnight and behind midnight to make their views known. We've narrowed it down in 10 minutes, so for Croatian TV and Croatian Radio, 5 minutes for commercial TV. By freeing up this fairly crowded media space, we are introducing a new article, an important provision to amend these rules where we have said that publishers of past known forms, elaborated forms of these rules can set out certain emissions themselves, can determine certain forms themselves but taking into account the fundamental legal principles of equal opportunities. So I think we've moved things significantly forward. Also, what is important is that the proposal by colleagues loses the lot, meaning the order of the performances as proposed by the rules would not be determined by the draw, but rather by the publishing houses de facto autonomously by their internal rules when one of the participants of the election shows up. We have assessed this badly, and therefore in our decision to amend the current rules we have preserved this draw, and yet we have freed the media space, because so one hard show that is uninteresting and unspeakable we have not made a commitment that has to be transmitted and that there must be a special show, but in scribbling must be present all representatives of the participants of the election, must be a public notary and the results of the scribbling must be made public. These are here in some short lines I mean the most important changes but which actually provide great opportunities for the electoral promotion to be in line with the law, so no one can dispute its legality from the aspect of the election law, and on the other hand to make it more visible, yet more interesting to be at the level that it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96622	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96623	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The IDS has signed these rules, the IDS will vote for these rules even though we have some remarks. We are all very well aware that Croatian radiotelevision is power. Croatian broadcasting is also a huge interest. Croatia's broadcasting, largely with its activities in the election year, can affect who will be the government. The staffing that happens today on Croatian radio is certainly not good. The fact that similar things have happened before when Mr. Dalic was not known as the editor-in-chief of Globus with Mr. Pavic entered the building across the square and came out as director of Croatian Radio Television was also not a good practice. That is why I say that Croatian broadcasting is of interest, and that Croatian broadcasting is an interest to the best people sitting in this House. Whoever is also at the head of that institution has a huge influence on the creation of power. I, as I said yesterday and today will repeat, would like to know how many political parties are from which in the last election year he appeared on Croatian TV. It doesn't matter if it's "The Diaries", whether it's "The Engines", "The Opens", "The Sundays at 2" or any other such and informative show. I also said yesterday that there's a lot of money going on TV. You buy minutes, you buy shows. He is also aware of this and has indicated the fight against such practices. Unfortunately, Amnesty International doesn't talk about it. The real power at this point when it comes to the public is far greater in the various market agencies than in the people who got legitimacy sitting in this House. That's not what Amnesty International is talking about. What I ask the Croatian Radio Television to immediately announce the minutes of all parties on Croatian Radio Television in this election year that is behind us or where we are today. Croatia today is not only the SDP, HDZ, although such a division is the most conventional of people on Croatian radio. Why? Because changes in the authorities of one or the other are positioned themselves within these divisions in Croatian broadcasting. One more time. In 2007, it is not as powerful as the public may predominate in small political parties, although there are no small parties, there are only people who have these electoral legitimacy, the power in 2007, and in 2008, 2009 and 2010 will be even greater in the media, in capital, and certainly in the executive power that is somehow available with each other's gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. The question also arises how much we can hold someone back if it is aimed at bipolarising the political scene. Bipolarised Croatia is a disaster from the state, it's like we have a big coalition, and the biggest protagonists of such a policy are I dare say national media. I know that because of these words IDS can only have damage, but I once again call on HRT to publish minutes of various political options in this election year. The second thing I'm saying is, on the informational one sophisticated Croatian radio and data can certainly be obtained in a few minutes when it is possible to get to the web in the same way. The website of the Croatian Parliament. Will the Croatian public get them before the elections? I doubt that. But publishing that data in a way would give you the right picture of what I'm talking about. I also ask that the rules we are discussing or which the committee proposes be fair rules. In line with these rules in the next how, 45 days, I dare say President Mesic. I object to the election campaign being announced seven or eight days before the poll elections because they can be manipulated. What's kind of questionable in these rules, these are these provisions under regular number 3. When publishing the results and examinations of public opinion, electronic media publishers with a national concession will clearly and unequivocally inform the public by stating the name of the party or the person who ordered or paid the examination. I don't think paid polling parties should appear within a few days until the election or a few weeks before the elections or the name of the organisations that conducted the interviews. I don't know who's showing up here... etc., as this may also affect the results of the election, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm saying, clearly I'm saying, my God, and I'm talking about IDS. The IDS is a regional party but no IDS can dispute or take away one national importance. And I am deeply convinced that it will be in the future. And I think it will be good for both Istria and Croatia, or the Eighth Election Unit. I claim that some people, I fear, will not give everyone the same chance on television. And that's why these rules need to be strictly, strictly precise. What about the weakest ones? What about the kid? The truth is, there's an exhibitionist, there's prosthetics, I don't know, they're silent, they're yelling, they're being represented in their stables, etc., but that exhibitionism can be attended once every four years. Once, the citizens of Mamic and his exhibitionism can attend every day of the year or 365 days a year. What does it mean on the other hand and this point 5? The same thing you should know today if we adopt these rules how will these rules exist? Someone might have to demonstrate to us in some way how long, when, at what point, will they be represented on HRT? No one should be privileged, no one should be discriminated against when it comes to public media. IDS said, sign these rules. I signed them myself. I'll vote for them, too. We want something to change, but we also don't want anyone to get hurt. I don't want anyone to have any advantage over those who don't, or tomorrow won't share power. This media, in fact, this rulebook also concerns electronic media. P.P.H. Holding has already presented its rules to us on that page of the ad. It'll be about summed up, it'll be like we say, and if you're not happy with it, you can complain, but anyway, even though you complain, it'll be like we say. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen either with these rules or with the rules proposed by the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure. Someone's gonna tell me what I need, just to do it like that? I know that only harm can come from it, I'm aware. All go normally down the media's hair and this is largely today saying that power is not only in this Parliament as clearly as it may be in the media, in the capital, in the executive government. What I have reported most is point 8, and it reads: Journalists and managers of electronic media publishers shall not be allowed on regular and special broadcasts from Chapter II. These rules present your potential party membership, well, that's clear. And then we come to paragraph b. Journalists are forbidden to participate in party promotion during election promotions, and if they have ownership stakes in one of the agencies working for a particular party or list, they are obliged to inform their editor in writing. Now the question is, how many are our journalists and are they neutral and are they absolutely independent from case to case? That's all a naive man could believe. We're all bloody under the skin, and so are the press. There are few who will rise above political divisions. I want to believe that one day they will be incomparably appreciated by one principle as well as I want to believe that people who are in politics will one day be more appreciated if they are their own under quotes on their own or political stance. In the second sentence, I said that those journalists and leaders who are candidates on party or independent lists should not do their regular work. That's why I answer the most. Why? Here it is thought of performing a journalistic profession or their engagement on certain lists. If those provisions don't be specified, it won't be good for the gentlemen. Why am I saying that? In Istria, it is a regular practice for some journalists to perform regularly in the elections. Four years usually go against IDS, then they go to the polls, they get what they get, it doesn't matter, they always get something, they go back to the media the second day, and they go on the same way as nothing happened to them. And no one can call it from other independent media. I don't mind if the press goes to the polls. Let them go. They're not judges. They're not soldiers. They're not state lawyers. In their case, incompatibility simply isn't worth it, but I don't like their crossover position to put it that way. So, I'm saying that those future rules determine that if a journalist wants to appear on the election list six months before the election, he simply declares his intention, that his status in the media is frozen. And if he intends to return again after his failure to journalism, so that those six months after the elections, can't be a media show under quotes. I think it should just sort of be regulated and that would be fair. One word for the end. I absolutely agree that as far as this party representation is concerned, etc. that something should change. If any law in the Croatian Parliament should be read not in two, but in three readings then these are these rules, but what we will do is there is no time. In one word, why would you do that? Because a fair game depends largely on who will lead this country in the next four years. That fair game is not to be questioned, no one has the right just because they have this media independence to prefer someone, or someone because I don't know what to discriminate about. I would only ask once more that before the vote we simulate what all this will be like for political parties, how many shows are there during this election 2007 and then we can talk clearly about what these rules might look like for another election campaign. Finally, the IDS signed these rules, we're going to vote for those rules, I made some remarks, and I think if most of them decide that maybe one day these rules will be far more precise than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96624	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96625	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club was one of the proposing rules that should be discussed today and allowed first in the introduction to explain why. The media were these, therefore, news outlets that reminded us and warned that the text of the existing parliament regulating the way of monitoring and the campaign should be brought into line with the time and moment in which the elections were held, that in the meantime there was a more serious change in the sense that we no longer have one national television, but three with a national concession and we offered a text that provides frameworks, monitoring campaigns, which guarantees and offers equal treatment to election participants, and gives editors and journalists quite the freedom to create the content of these shows and to propose a minimum of protection terms that every candidate in the elections, or each election list must receive. Today is the ninth day if I am not mistaken since the proposal was made in the procedure and is in the Croatian public, so much has been said about the text so far. We have been waiting all along and it has been promised that together with the Croatian Democratic Community club we will sit down and try to listen to their comments, install, accept them, install them in the text of the proposal to come before you with harmonised proposals. It was precisely this call to a consensus that came from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community that gave us the real hope that the last day of this assembly, the last day of the session in one important and serious matter, would indeed reach an agreement. But seven days there was no answer, no counter-proposal, no delay in content that yesterday at the meeting of the club presidents would be reported to the Croatian Democratic Community club instead of the proposed text of the new rules offering amendments and additions to the old rules. It was at 10 o'clock, and a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution was convened in 14 hours as a parent committee to determine the text of the proposal to you for discussion. So in those three, four hours, we were supposed to make a comparison of the old ones, our proposal for new changes and the additions that we got back then. We did it at first glance and first reading what was written in the proposal of the HDZ Club was largely consistent with what we wrote, but as it usually becomes a problem is in what it does not say. That's exactly the problem. The key reason never spoken, never written anywhere, but in my opinion, in the text of the existing rules in item 4(3), which continues to allow officials in regular information emissions to be present in the programmes as if there were no choice. So those who are in power, who will put stone foundations in the election campaign and cut the ribbons and open unbroken tunnels, will be able to be in the diaries, but will not be treated as an election campaign, and the opposition will continue to be gained into shows and these two species, one traveling circus, and another 18 seconds. So the second show is 18 seconds. And it seems to me that actually the only reason the government hasn't accepted a new approach this time. I repeat that what the Committee's proposal now writes on its content is not disputed and in some ways corrects the old rules, but the problem is what is not there, so allow only a brief comparison. What will the television campaign be aware of, to use the official term electronic media with a national concession? There will be one show of 10 minutes of presentation, then it will be that each list has the right to report 5 sets, and televisions have to imitate exactly 2 minutes after central information shows, up to 2 minutes after central information shows and every night before "Divnik" and an hour after "Dnevnik" will actually be reporting from fairs, markets, wine shops, and I don't know what it was all about, remember what it looked like. And there will be one show of 50 minutes with approximately 30 to 50 guests of the study, between 30 and 50 so usually the number of lists in the election units. And these are those shows where the leader has written five or nine questions in advance. I think they're actually most comfortable with those leaders who run these shows, who act like leaders. Last night, I suggested that these questions be written in the future on a blubber because it's easier, and we also feel more comfortable with those shows than with the leaders reading them. For example, the question is, do you have an economic programme? Of course we do, here's the answer, and now everyone's waiting for me to explain it. Do you have an economic program? It was one question that states in the rules that is crucial to the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia. So we bet our original intention and it will come to the fact that those who have advocated and persuaded, and we all have to have the same treatment, you will formally have, and there will be nothing in the content. And at the end of two reminders. The Croatian People's Party Club on time referred to the procedure and put forward a proposal for a new electoral system for parliament waiting on the agenda for two years and then we withdrew it due to the constitutional deadline. If the debate on the new electoral system had been opened then, it would have been likely that the new electoral rules would have been in line with that law long before the disbandment and how slow we are by following life and the development of technology and technology I will give you on the following example. Now we will regulate and you will certainly vote the proposal of the Constitution Committee and strictly prescribe the behavior of New TV, RTL and Croatian Radio Television, and Radio and Television. And I'm asking you what's wrong with the Internet? What rules Internet portals should respect in Croatia, not only from election day but also on election day. Do you know that millions and 300 thousand citizens are connected to the faster Internet in Croatia that have video materials, not just texts and audio materials. So we don't have to regulate it, that's why, freedom, equality, access because at the time of this election rule, there may have been no Internet, although there was but we didn't remember that it existed until now. No regulation, no word about it. And now on the one hand we have an obligation to say by law to prescribe the appearance of an election show leader, so sitting down and writing in the rules that we have to introduce ourselves, answer questions and we have to give a final address to the nation. These are quotes from the rules that remain in force. And at the same time, we don't have any regulations on the Internet. We can't have it in these rules because the law didn't see it coming. Therefore, all those who claim that these amendments will guarantee everyone equal treatment in great error. It will be treated equally in a two-minute and 18-second traveling circus. That's the only truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96626	SDP representative club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96627	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, as counterpart Lesar said earlier, and the SDP club signed together with eight other clubs a proposal to amend the rules for media monitoring the campaign. This is for the first time in this assembly that all the clubs, all the parties in this House, are behind one initiative, behind one proposal, and that HDZ is the only party that remains a non-signator of these rules. But as we have learned in the past four years, it is not possible that the majority party is trying to get close, so almost 90% of the clubs in this hall, but its old good manners are trying to impose their solutions that are not acceptable to us at this point because they are pure cosmetics. The rules proposed by the HDZ Club are simply something that does not solve the problem that we wanted to solve and which must be solved if we want to save policy from dirt and banalisation. In fact, it was our main goal, not only of our own here in parliament, but also of journalists who, as a profession, also know that the campaigns in the way they've been followed so far only lead to the fact that in this country we lower the ratings of politicians, politicians, interests of politicians, and that in some way, we turn the campaign into a circus because in these shows, people who read songs, who have nothing behind them, nor do they have members of the party, nor do they have programs that destroy the reputation of politics in this way. And certainly it will not help people to make a decision and to go to the polls, but rather to stay at home because politics must indeed be disgusted by them. That's how you put us all in one position that we're all the same. We're not all the same. We're not because there are politicians who are seriously doing their job and there are people who use pre-election campaigns to just get some media space for themselves. And that's all. So there's a very big difference between us. Here it has been trying to say that the rules proposed by the HDZ club are that they are actually trying to achieve equality and equal access to the media. Well, we don't stand a chance of being equal in the campaign, we don't have a chance of being even because we got these rules, we got ghettod shows. As counterpart Lesar said, we got one circus out of a show where 20 parties would be in some kind of two-minute blocks. No more citizens will know who's on that show that he ordered, who said anything. One goes to the cry, the other one's at some expensive, the third one's somewhere reciting or singing, or acting. In any case, on these shows, all of us who are going to be on these ghettoized shows won't be able to send a message to serious voters. But HDZ is in a different position. They are currently in power, they will continue to have access to information shows as opposed to us with their prime minister, now with three contributions almost every night in Dnevnik. We're not on those shows anymore. We can do whatever we want, we can speak the smartest ideas, but we're no longer on information shows after the campaign starts. But he wants Prime Minister Sanader, he wants all his ministers, no matter what the candidates are on the list. And gentlemen, we are not equal and we will not be equal. We won't be equal. That's why HDZ is not in the interest of changing the rules because they're going to have their own program, their own minutes on all the TVs in the information program. We won't, we'll have a ghettoed show as we have so far, we'll have a conversation that will read with us songs, and we'll be very difficult with our programs at that point to be serious in front of their voters. That's why we asked, therefore, for these rules to change, to leave the possibility that television stations that have, therefore, have a different concept of the national concession. That doesn't mean that we've taken any of the parties on the political scene in the election campaign, that we've taken away any of their rights. So, fundamental rights remain, each will have, therefore, their own minute, each of us will have the opportunity to present their programme, but let's let the space open so that the media can construct certain shows where several serious representatives, serious parties who, according to all the surveys, are re-entering this Parliament, which will again decide tomorrow on the fate of this country, that these people can say very seriously in one place, and face arguments about their different solutions to certain issues of our citizens. That's what citizens are interested in. I've often spoken in these negotiations, for example. representatives of national minorities. So my people, you put the same thing in the ghetto, people come on the show, you ask them about culture, I don't know about the economy, so the question is is, is that exactly what their electoral body is interested in? I think they have an example. specific problems of our own, so why don't we just let the journalistic profession form a show so that they form questions that can therefore, these people, who have one specific population with specific problems that they can send their messages and that they can answer that. Why are we also driving them into some sort of question that really, indeed, their population who will vote for them is not interested? Why do we all have to have the same questions, why does it have to be so cruel and uniformed? Well, let's put on a machine to record those 12 questions and have the machine say one question every five minutes. I think it's part of these rules that are really written in some of the times that are behind us. I think in these rules not only do politics, here, we've been using the term something lately of the circus, but it's really working here in a busting into journalistic freedoms. We here prescribe to the press, it's one thing to prescribe a certain minute to protect everyone, so that we can all be the same. However, what the journalist will show is also prescribed here, how many tonnes he will have. Well, then we really just need to prescribe, and I don't know how they're going to convince some set. So I think that these rules need to be changed, I think they can be changed in a way that only opens up, so space, one of these rigid ways of monitoring the campaign, so that it doesn't enter into anyone's rights, into anyone's, so nobody's equality. I think that with the rules as proposed by them, eight clubs in this House can ensure equal access to all parties, but on the other hand, it can be ensured that in this campaign, in a much better way, the work of individual parties is monitored. And to ultimately provide citizens with much more quality shows than the ones we've had so far. Citizens are monotone shows, boring, they don't watch them, TV dates girls, and on the other hand they simply can't separate a serious politician from those whose campaign, pre-election campaign every four years in 20 days, just to have a personal promotion. And that's why I'm calling on this at all eight clubs that have been behind these rules, to gather together during the vote today in a full-scale hall and to declare these rules because we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96628	Thank you. SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96629	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. President, you have often been in a position to be from this pay phone and in some other cases to say that Croatia is a mature democracy. You have often said that Croatia is a developed democracy. So we representatives of the Croatian Parliament with all awareness of the lack of democratic capacity we could agree with your claim that Croatia is a mature democracy. But what we have about the campaign, in electronic media, is the forgotten stage of the start of Croatian democracy. It is a children's period of Croatian democracy. These are the short pants of Croatian democracy. It is actually something that is more like some kind of post-communist understanding of equality between political parties and political actors than real awareness of who the actors are in democratic Croatia. Well, it seems to me that I should address you the most because you have here the longest internship, as long as we heard last night, and you have witnessed and that child's period, as you have witnessed and this mature democratic period. From that period as president of the SDSS, I must say that it is indeed time to coordinate the fact of our development, democratic political culture and what we set as a criterion at the beginning of the 90s, 91s. These two things just don't correspond anymore. Or 2003. But it's no different than what you brought back in the '90s. Okay. In any case, I'd like to say the following, you know that looks about like it, we have to keep that, as we must safeguard the equality of the people, the nationalities, the working classes, all the others, so we must also keep the equality of the subjects in the pre-election campaign. But it's an abstract principle. A concrete principle would be for the president if, for example, you as the president of the Parliament and some self-proclaimed president of the municipality or the Republic of Pestnica, some "Bro Roma" were to participate equally in some kind of discussion. But that's not gonna happen. You'll be on your show. He'll be on his show. And there is no serious real confrontation between those who are serious politicians and potential rickets. And maybe that would be interesting to hear and see. Maybe it would bring some elements or indicators of true equality. And that's not happening. So everyone's got their own box. Everyone's been stored somewhere in this regard and we're actually just playing the pluralist campaign and we don't actually have it. And we can't even have it for the following reasons. They've already been talked about by colleagues and colleagues. First, journalists in this case are not subjects of the pre-election process. Unless they do not write comments or write reviews in newspapers or on certain television shows. But in the campaign process, they're not any subject. They get their questions. They read these questions, and on the basis of these questions, we need to talk to them. A colleague, Lesar, said, "I get a question about what it is, do you have a pre-election program?" And it would be more meaningful if he asked me if you might have a pen right now. Because that would be more specific then you'd say I don't or I do. And this way everyone's gonna say we have some kind of pre-election program. ... Yeah, I know, but there's a lot of things someone did that didn't work out, so it's a chance for others to fix it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we'll come to that. We'll come to that. We'll come to the fact, we object why the press are asking for this to change? And they're rightly rebelling. They rebel to have more freedom and more creativity in this process. That different people can really ask different questions. To treat them like living people, not like party monsters. ... Oh, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Many of us didn't want to be involved in this anymore because it doesn't make any sense. It's a waste of time. And that's the debauchery of it, isn't it? So probably a part of us won't even go on the next one of those shows. Then why are we spending money that is taxpayers' money, taxes on all of us, and instead of spending that time on serious things? Let's hear what the journalists who follow have to say about it, we say, "We don't want that." Now why don't we? Well, it's not colleagues and colleagues, so let's just be really open to each other right now. It's not because we want equality. Small and others who will show up once for business, for neighbors, for anything else. It's their right. Such space can always be created in one way or another. However, the real reasons for this, in my opinion, are as follows. I will point out, I will set an example of the 9th electoral unit, the results of the 2003 elections in the 9th constituency. The parties that did not pass the threshold, up to 5.17% took their colleagues and colleagues to over 50,000 votes. And somebody's thank God, it's got somebody's mandates. Therefore, the passing of such small parties of strange people, strange ambitions, parties that de facto do not exist. The parties who do not check whether they are operating in accordance with the Party Act and the like, of course, have a purpose in picking up part of the vote and then, when the party is finally calculating those votes, which gets the largest number of votes, picks up and most of those votes. Thus, maintaining them in political life and in political space through the media makes sense. It makes them, it just makes that space attractive. And we should just end it. Another reason. The appearance of such a large number of small parties, independent candidates conditionally stated. Individuals and others, for whom we really don't know about party functions, are meant to actually create noise in the channel. So that those who really need to be heard and seen don't actually see each other. As high as Franjo Arapović is if we deploy a whole series of Pygmies around him we will see him weaker, we will see these Pygmies. Like the one in the photo over there, which, by the way, is one of the better ones that's being exposed there to the press room. ... All right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In other words, in other words, it is not advocating equality. It's not advocating pluralism. In our opinion, it is advocating space for manipulation under mature democratic circumstances. And calling on everyone to participate is the right. This is neither in the right sense of that word nor in the right sense is an adequate response to what our democratic needs are in this regard. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS adheres to the request of most parties that these rules be changed and will vote in favour of this type of position. I know this is the last moment, but we could have done it 15 days ago. We could've done it a month ago, and we're being asked to do it, and we're expected to do it for the reasons I put out. I will not talk about what purpose it makes to answer routinely routine questions and there are a whole series of topics, a whole series of issues that a journalist who would prepare in advance for 15 or 20 days or a team of journalists who would like to and should hold a conversation with representatives of individual minority candidates such as possible candidates of the Serb community who would make a meaningful appearance. And for the viewers and for the press and for us. And this way, of course, doesn't make much sense. Thus, the campaign space as envisaged is the space that is stifled. A space that is unauthentical, a space that needs to be freed and a space to give creativity to the right subjects of the process, which are journalists. Our real space is somewhere in the squares, the streets, visiting people. And, of course, on television shows that are organized for that occasion. But the right space is determined by journalists we won't let do it. And now, we say, "E journalists pressure the parties to do something." So they do because they want their freedom and want their autonomy. If anyone's afraid of it, that's another question. And I hope there's nothing to be afraid of here. Mr. President, because we are mature democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96630	We are mature democracy, as you say. As the European Commission and the European Union say, we are mature democracy. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96631	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We proposed two years ago a set of electoral legislation and with amendments to the Law on political parties and we warned about all these things that we are discussing today. So we're in '96. They said what would happen to The Hague, so we talked to the economic belt, and it's not a good thing that we didn't talk openly about our proposals that are coming back now. We said what an election campaign looks like, how many political parties there are, and that basically nobody follows anymore, and that the whole campaign turns into a whole circus, that unfortunately various characters appear. So spend the survey today and you will see from 102 to 106 no longer knows how many political parties are registered in Croatia at this time. Because every day it's possible to start a new political party. Most Croatian citizens will not know when you tell her the name of the party who the president is, and when you tell her the name of the party in general she will wonder if there is such a party. It's not a good thing we couldn't agree on this. I think we should take a democratic step there. It is also not correct that HDZ did not give its proposal directly, as we all clubs have, to support the requirements of the three media most important that have a principle concession related to Croatia's broadcasting, RTL and Nova Television. They went through the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Namely, the fundamental intention is all of this means that there is really no real interaction on many topics, such as, say, it would be interesting to organise a confrontation between us and the HDZ about The Hague, so let's say, a confrontation about what we talked about conversion and privatisation, about corruption and everything else. But this will now come completely into the other plan because it will be shown in the shows as special for the elections that eventually happen again as the election promotion goes in the end no one will watch. While various paid shows will be used on radio stations and elsewhere where these parties that do not represent anything will be paid by other major parties to bring up lies, to eat and to make an election promotion such as to be dirty, and not to see concrete programmes and everything else. It is not good that we suspect, the Croatian Parliament, the objectivity and professionalism of the media. There are normal problems in objectivity in professionality, but we still think in the Croatian Party club it is the right to say that they are trying to follow the example of HINA and Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, Croatian Television and RTL Television and New TV. It means that they are trying to be objective and professional and that slowly that part of the attempt to form a public opinion or to form a public opinion that in this period now means they do not serve a variety of such methods to call on Gener, who is always paid for everything and everything, so he will always say depends on what he was ordered or such a situation. So it's one of the forms where he tries to form a public opinion, so a call is made to an expert, so he's going to bring out some of his own thesis that he's basically not reading what he's saying, where he doesn't know what he's saying or what he's saying is what he's saying. But that's what you ordered, ordered paid statements, means management with a warrant. So it's obvious that we're going to watch the laying of rock foundations, that we're going to watch various openings, cut bands. So I call on the rest of us to conduct a full investigation into how much the rock foundation is heartlessly buried in the ground without doing anything after that. Let's say this is a situation where let's save these stone foundations from the collapse. And this I ask that the media who attended the laying of the cornerstones in time and who reported in the Central Journal on the election campaign to go together to the same place, to take out that cornerstone, to save it from the collapse, and that will also be a great contribution as well as in what way. Once again, a cornerstone can be placed but if the project is real, not a promotional project. Therefore, it is not good and obvious that the Croatian Democratic Community is afraid to face specific programmes, which is not good for the development of democracy, it is not good to doubt objectivity and professionalism, it is not good to have those various shows where it means many come on shows to be seen by the mother-in-law, the wife and one of the relatives. They wait every four years for some kind of election to be held here to show up, to say something, to make some kind of incident. Therefore, I am pleading against all of us from the opposition and those who until yesterday were in the coalition with HDZ, who today also say that the opposition is still to be gathered and that the rules that we clubs, us 8, are to lay down these rules and provide a full professional, objective and democratic approach to the promotional campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96632	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96633	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow this proposal for new rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions during the election campaign to be initiated on behalf of the HSS club that supported. There are two levels of questions for us and two levels of problems why, at this point before this campaign, it is necessary to adopt new rules. On one side, all clubs have so far referred to the position of the policy that has been markedly abolished, each policy, the policy that we consider to be a serious political option in the Republic of Croatia. Serious political options are those options that in some ways the political and political public record. Of course, they can also be independent individuals, but above all they belong to political options, political parties who have the right to talk about their programmes during the pre-election campaign, talk about diversity, speak about what is the essence and content of the policy options that are of course to be recognised, it cannot be unified in a common almost collegiate body as so far and under the current rules almost any. All there was, in a way, adapted to the collective, to the community, whether there were 10, 20 parties depending on how many there were, but all of them reminded of a good military briefing. In fact, time for answers to some questions can be identified with military terminology. There was time to answer with that we have, no we don't. Because if you were late at that speed of response, you were left without it to the first question, if you have an economic programme if you're a little slow, you might not have it, then the second one goes whether you're for Euro-Atlantic integration, you still have time until you count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and so on. Of course, all of this together has put everything in the same position, I say it all in the same bad position, and that's on the other side, and that's this other problem that's less talked about, that's our citizens' question. In fact, it was the citizens who were most deprived. Their time period of watching public and commercial television was attacked by something they didn't want to watch. That's a fact. So we took away part of their time especially for those on public television who are paying for it, while at the same time not having the content of what we wanted to inform them. And we wanted to inform them first of all that in the pre-election campaign is the time when programmes, different programmes, different views on the most powerful political, economic and social issues or issues are being discussed. Unfortunately, our citizens couldn't get that. They could not be convinced, based on these public needs, of the diversity, of the quality, of the inadequacy, of anything else. It was simply all covered with a bunch of parties, a number of lists, and usually even if that was the case so far with HSS, there were always 4.5 HSS that competed in the ranking list that at least one column on top of HSS, and HSS was only one in Croatia. Therefore, these parties had not the content and aim of being programme holders but of contesting the programme, to challenge the legitimate programme of the parent party. There are other parties, of course, not only to the HSS. It's almost to most parties. And if we look at it all together through these current rules, then we see that these current rules don't live in real time. They were of course spent at the time when they were brought, they probably had a purpose. Today we need to adapt them. We were also pleased to see that there was a gradual approach and the fact that there was a goodwill on the side of HDZ to try to adapt to new conditions, new needs, and also to citizens. And that is why we regret at the HSS Club that this approach has stalled, which is evident that we will not reach common conclusions, that we will not make common new rules and that would be very good for further development of democracy in Croatia, for further development of democracy of public media, commercial media, for further development of the establishment of serious political relations in the Republic of Croatia. We have fully supported these rules with our colleagues from HSLS, so we stand behind them, we will vote for them, and we absolutely hope that they will receive the required number of votes in this House of Commons. Because if these current rules remain, if they stay, then, of course, the stereotype will happen again, again equally bad stereotype, again equally bad scenario, again equally non-informative scenario, and again it will happen to everyone already a little bit disgusted, and that's not good. Because we want to send a new message through the new rules, because it won't be good if only the Prime Minister and his ministers are parading on public and commercial television for the next 15 days, God doesn't know how much the ruling party does, but he'll hurt everyone together and it won't be the same political game that we all advocate together, and there's no reason for that. So I once again appeal to my HDZ colleagues, to bring together these new rules because they are not against anyone. They do not reduce the position of the ruling party in anything, do not reduce the position of the government, do not reduce both prime minister and all ministers' ability to do their job the best they should do. Therefore, the new rules are not only the same but they clear thoroughly those relationships that have so far been completely in a rough bewitched bar in which they were not different from each other, good than bad, stronger than weaker, and of course that is not good. Because if it is ever a true time to send serious political messages to citizens that political parties in this House have matured so seriously that they can talk seriously without their own vanity about the weaknesses they have been, and this is a key question of how democratic we are, how much we want to support our own future with our eyes today. Therefore, I think it would be a very good message for all together to find common language when it comes to the adoption of new rules and to have that common language kind of signal to citizens that Croatia is moving forward in every respect, as well as in terms of their own growing up in terms of understanding democracy, but above all, the need for citizens to be informed and to make the right information on the basis of the decisions they think they need to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96634	Thank you. The HDZ Club, a respected representative and vice president of the House, Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96635	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In every procedure for the adoption of an act, there is a principle of equality, equality of all participants, and when it comes to elections and the election process. When I tell all participants then and the participants who are aspiring to come to Parliament, and now they are not in the Assembly, and I don't know why they should be discredited if they want to enter the Croatian Parliament, because there were some parties who were also not in the Croatian Parliament, so they entered the Croatian Parliament through the election process. Why disqualify them? The principle of equality and equality that arises from the Constitution and the law must be respected through these rules and there is no possibility of bringing anything that will discredit or in some way dissuasive or with smaller rules by any party or group or list or coalition that will take place in the elections. That's one principle. Second principle, no amendments to the law before the election for a year. If we wanted to intervene, then we would have to change the law, but all we have left is to comply with our rules with the existing law, and there's nothing we can do about it. Third. All acts, including this one, should be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. There's no exception. And when it was proposed to amend the rules, all clubs were offered to participate in creating changes other than HDZ. Why HDZ is not offered to participate in amendments, additions, etc. These rules? So to get political points and to get up to some media, because I call these rules "colloquial so-called." Baga's rules. And why Bagina's rules? I answer that question with those two points that HDZ did not agree to change, and we accepted everything else. Is that what you want HDZ to accept everything that comes to your mind? E won't accept it this time, because what does that mean exactly the same question to all the participants in these conflicts? What does that mean? This means that, let's say, Bago or some other creative journalist can ask the Mother a question of well-valued, well-intentioned, affirmative, and another might ask him another question, that's that creativity, provocative to bring him in, that party and that individual into a position where he defends himself out there instead of talking about his program. So why all the same questions? Because they want to participate in Croatian political life and the Croatian Parliament, so the public should be interested in what the party or individual or group thinks about education, about health, about drugs, about the NATO Alliance, about the European Union, not about turning this creativity into cheerleading for individual parties and individual groups. Thus, it is that equality that everyone answers those questions that create television, but that everyone answers them, not someone will answer nice, good, benevolent and beautiful questions, and others will have to answer other questions. It won't work. That's the rule you made. You made those rules on October 16, 2003, two, three days before the Parliament's disbandment and then you were in power and you made the rules that suit you. We were in opposition. Now we're in power, and you're in opposition, and you'd want your rules again. No, he can't. You understand? It can't. That attempt won't work. And another thing. When these objective individuals, I won't say, I don't generalise, journalists report pre-election meetings or some other gatherings, then let's say there's a thousand people in HDZ, he writes 400, and the other same big party becomes 200, and they say 400 again, so a thousand and 200 is the same number. In order not to leave it to their creativity, let the video be made and let the Croatian public be aware of what was at that meeting and what was and not to leave so-called. I'm a medium-based creationist. And we, as you can see, don't go to the media, but we're speaking critically because they're not sacred cows when they can talk about our shortcomings all the time, and often they make it up, and we can say something about these saints who create let's tell the public and in some way influence the public. Why did you make these rules four years ago? Did you maybe ask us what we think of those rules, because we were? No, you've forced them and voted them, and now, wonders after four years, none of these rules are right. It's no good what you've done, but we think you've done it right. You understand? Look how much we support you and how much we're not willing to improvise the last moment. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing. At ten o'clock yesterday we had the presidents of the clubs scheduled in connection with this. I haven't heard any remarks from Mrs. Opačić, from anyone except Mr. Lesar, who has troubled the question of whether the mayors, the mayors are state officials or not. And with that in mind, this was on that board. And then we decided at two o'clock that we were going to this meeting of club presidents, that we were going on board at two o'clock. After we left that meeting of club presidents, the press stopped us, Mr. Lesar and I, I made a statement, and Mr. Lesar said that 95%, in microphones, agreed, that there were only some, uh, small things that we would agree on. And then the copernicus turn happened in two hours. And then on the board, Mr. Lesar suddenly said that he couldn't accept any of it. If they don't come in... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They will accept but if these two things were later found in terms of creative questions for one and uncreative or provocative to others when the debate is held. So you didn't offer us to participate in the creation of the proposal because you wanted credit for the progress of democracy taken for yourself, did you? And now you're in a lot of trouble because we've accepted everything that matters. And to put an end to those 45% of what you're saying at two o'clock is sometimes stupid, so to speak. And other things we have accepted except for reports from meetings and equal questions, the same questions for all participants in the conflict. And now all of a sudden you're not going to accept any of that because you're the only one who wants to make the same rules again after four years. We offer you 95% as Mr. Lesar said, which we accepted from what you asked for, but you're a little 95%, you want 100%. Now look. You will either accept this proposal that has submitted to the HDZ or you will provide the majority for your proposal or remain the old rules. Here you go. Thank you. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96636	They will choose, the people will choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96637	A few corrections. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96638	The incorrect claim by Mr Bebic is that HDZ's motive for equalising participants in the electoral process. He's basically denying it a minute and a half later, when he says, we're in power now, these are the rules that suit us, and that's why we keep them. Therefore, after this exit of the club president, this debate must start in a completely different direction. The reason for the equality of the participants in the process after this recognition of Mr Bebić on behalf of the club must fall off. Fall off as a relevant motive for adopting such...... All we need to discuss is whether this Parliament wants to accept this logic of the HDZ Club and to give them a more favourable position in the public. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96639	Okay. Representative Lesar Dragutin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad to mention for the fourth time a colleague, Baby, that when he quotes me, he has to quote completely or not. I'm correcting your quote, therefore, on the compliance of 95% of the text of the rules. 95% of the text you shared on the table. That's an important difference, because you had eight days of reading our proposals, and you wanted to give us five minutes to accept what you divided into ten hours as a counterproposal, and eight days you called for a consensus to come with a counterproposal on the ninth day. It's about your fair game you play all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96641	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96642	So I'm correcting Mr. Luke Bebić's incorrect allegations that we haven't heard from the club president's meeting. Well, of course, my colleague Bebić because instead of you making some changes to these rules that we suggested on behalf of eight clubs, you came to us at ten o'clock in the morning after eight days and you gave us your proposal. And we said then, we need to see this proposal, compare it to our rules, and we will have our position within two hours of the Constitution Committee. And otherwise, the fact is that you alone in HDZ don't accept the change of rules because your current situation suits you the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96643	Thank you. Ten and 18 minutes. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96644	Dear Mr. President! We're literally five minutes before the Parliament's disbanding, and we're discussing a subject that is essentially marginal. Why marginal? Because, as GONG says correctly, it was necessary to change the entire package of electoral legislation at the beginning and make institutional assumptions that it does not appear in election units twenty or in the First Election Unit where we will be colleagues Pusic and some, forty electoral lists. First of all, I don't want to accept this kind of thesis that became national stereotypes, that a group of marginal people, self-invited, exhibitionists, etc. appear. You must be aware of how we refer to ourselves and how we see ourselves. Don't be called and seen by others. You see, with the help of fellow Marić, or not fellow Marić, but a man who probably voted more of that law than the MPs themselves, I learned that we had in this assembly together with today's 296 working days. On average, Croatian television at least broadcasts three hours. That's 888 hours of television transmission. 888 hours or 53 thousand 280 minutes of inter-party confrontation. So there are 15 days left, and you expect that in those ten days, they will face and solve what hasn't been solved in those 888 days. It's an illusion. Like the illusion that the opposition proposal is on the side of journalists, and that there is an existing proposal against journalists. As far as I've seen two wise men, known to this House of Highs, Mato Arlović and Luka Bebić, were the only ones who were truly in favour of compromise. Others have done all sorts of strange things and run some small games, thinking that by insisting that they would get some kind of sympathy on the news side. For example, in paragraph 8 of the new proposal, there is an explicit attitude that prohibits journalists from dealing with party promotion. It's unconstitutional, there's no legal basis for doing something like that and it's a matter of professional logic. And that's why I say when we refer to ourselves as the esteemed, esteemed, I have often used the concept of the learned, in the last introduction to "The Voice of the Council" editor-in-chief Ivan Miklenic speaks of us as listeners, mere executioners of party orders and voting machinery. Therefore, I would refer to you as those who are obedient and obedient because others see us as such. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, the position of GONG is not binding but is logically and theoretically unobstructed. Can't be two minutes before twelve without the propensity of emotional and humane to compromise, bringing the Croatian public into great error. I will repeat, Luka Bebić and Mate Arlović sought to compromise and could compromise, and as to who it is used or not by the entire Croatian public is historically... Nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, and certainly, it uses the biggest parties to HDZ and SDP. In general, the public creates an atmosphere of a great conflict of reconstruction on... Today's "Evening List" says, "We're in for a fight.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's at the duel? Ivo Sanader and Zoki Milanovic. If you look at the results of the public change research in this conflict, the two worlds of the blue HDZ and the red SDP are best passed by those who speak least Croatian party of pensioners. I think they'll have fifteen and more deputies on this assembly. For what? They work, they negotiate, they don't talk. As for the competence of journalists to select something of value. If you see of these 888 hours of television transmissions that are condensates, which has entered the central informational opportunities it's just conflicts. A colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt had 20 highly noted discussions in this House. What's on U-TUBE and what's going on is that she's been beating her shoe on the table, which we know here is not even the fact that it's not true. Therefore, one thesis on how to leave the selection of news, stories and events to the criterion of interestingness, and that was often said yesterday by colleague Opačić what was interesting is not important. I told the board yesterday, and that's where I'm gonna say it again. I did an experiment the other day. The Croatian Parliament is the only parliament in Europe today that when it plays "From Joy", it is the official anthem of the European Union all sits down. It was a solemn session on the occasion of an independent day announced on HTV a day earlier as the Day of Homeland Gratitude "a propos" of journalists' education. So I made a little gesture. At my personal risk, I rose to play "Ode of Joy" and since there is a mentality of the herd in the Croatian people, no one dared lift up with me, but no gesture was recorded in printed or electronic media anywhere. The attention is directed to the excess, and in that sense, I mean, if there's got to be an arbitration between the two poles of blue philosophy and this coalition philosophy bluff, let's just say I won't mention anyone by name. If he tried to ask the promoters honestly if they had read what they signed, the three testified that they hadn't. They signed it out of solidarity, some kind of opposition solidarity. Here we go. Mate Arlovic just showed up. And Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, today is the last day of class, there is no Ljuba Jurcic again. So, a man who wants to be Prime Minister is not good at standing up for the new role of Parliament in social life, cultural life, in the system of decision-making, and so despised to treat this House of Highs. So there's no Ljuba Jurcic. So, gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, if it were up to me, I'd have been talking about it yesterday. Dutch model. The Dutch model is a model of public television there, with only four parties in the area of public television, according to the criteria of success in the previous elections. There was a big editorial debate on whether to leave green also because of the specificity of the problem of the Netherlands's connection to agriculture and ecology. So, in Croatia, it would be ideal for censorships to be created, that the party dies if it did not secure ten thousand signatures, to be deleted from the register of the party that a colleague of Pupovac was talking about. Then we cannot solve with small rules the problems that are related to the essence of the political system. And as to whether journalists, I end up, whether or not able, willing or not to pass on what is relevant, do an analysis of the appearance of parliamentary deputies in the central daily, even from counterparts Ali Sirotanović, Pera Kovacevic and colleagues Damir Kajin. They never made it to the Dnevnik for something important they said, but for attacking the President of the Parliament. Even my two appearances were related to one irony related to the potential assassination of Ivo Sanader. Everyone saw it as irony, but they showed it as my call to kill the model prime minister. Of course I wouldn't kill anyone. As for the selection of problems discussed, I think the hierarchy of national problems is Croatia. First of all, capture of the state and major political corruption, then the situation in the judiciary, debt slavery, health and health care, economic problems, environmental protection, the situation in agriculture, where Markov will suffer, demographics and population policy, defence population problems, schools, education, intellectual capital. I would like to see how the discussion would be conducted by Mislav Bago on Croatian television, a man who has a high school, and if anything should be prescribed that he cannot run a leading business in relation to the politics of the High House, he is led by a man who has no higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96645	Replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96646	Mr. President. My esteemed colleague Letica mentioned a Dutch model. Of course, if each of the MPs had the right to their own opinion, it would have been a good idea if he had put it in shape and suggested it. I find that in that... The model here at this point is certainly not the time or the moment to talk about it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, given that he mentioned some topics,... You never said anything about agriculture again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, agriculture is more important than some of the topics that are priority. That's the list, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96647	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96648	After this intervention, I move the farm from seventh to fourth place. And as for the unfortunate HSS, I was very sad yesterday, being manipulated by HSLS yesterday compared to that scandalous proposal about the supervisory boards. And I have confirmation that they were not informed at all, and they can't alter what these rules would mean, as Milanka Opačić doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96649	Representative Nenad Stazic. An individual debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let us be open and clear rules as to how HDZ offers them have actually not been changed. Everything stays the same. They're calling for journalists to be free of the torment of stupid campaign tracking is not heard. The opposition has made its proposal that respects the request of the press. The HDZ, however, does not want that. From the vice president of Mr. Bebić's club, we heard it quite openly and clearly why HDZ doesn't want it. The HDZ obviously responds to this general noise, in this endlessly boring order of bizarre candidates, not to the public to receive the relevant parties' messages. Do professional journalists need rules? I don't think they need to. And the least they need is for those rules to be prescribed by politics and at least prescribed by the HDZ. But journalists have already agreed in part that these rules are prescribed by HDZ. This debate was not transferred to HRT this morning at the time it started, but it was therefore yesterday afternoon, beyond the usual rules of monitoring of the Parliament until late afternoon, a debate was passed which was here, where the motion was the Deputy Prime Minister. Never so late in the afternoon has television had a debate with the parliament in direct transmission. Yesterday an exception was made. I have no illusions that this new team on HRT will have the same criteria in the election campaign. Professionals among journalists don't need rules, but those who are not professional can't help any rules. Their rules can't make them behave professionally. Journalists follow parties and politicians differently. For example. Today, a sentence of our colleague Frana Matusic came out in a single frame, saying that Ljubo Jurcic is receiving a salary here in the Assembly even though he is never here. Ljubo Jurcic does not receive salaries in the Parliament, he receives salaries at the university. It's a fact that a journalist could know, know or check. And instead of putting two sentences into the box on how fellow Matusic is actually lying in the House, he abuses his position as an advocate to tell the truth. These lies are conveyed in the frameworks as truths, as facts. So a journalist can always help, please, harm a politician if he doesn't know or won't do his job professionally. The fact that Ljube Jurčić is missing today and yesterday, a distinguished colleague of Slaven Letica joined him who, unlike Ljuba Jurčić, receives salary in the Parliament and another 250,000 kuna a year as an independent representative even though he came to the Parliament on the list of one party. We stand here for creativity and freedom of journalistic profession. Why should journalists end up repeating the same questions to all candidates, just to make it tiring and boring, just so no one can follow it alive. It's after day one. So why shouldn't journalists ask important questions to every candidate in particular? So why don't the journalists of a candidate ask if they'll finally show up before the election and show up with the receipts from Verona and the watches he promised to show and not show up until today. And that question, be careful that question can't be typical. Because such collectors among the candidates aren't much. Well, it can't become a general question to be asked to all candidates. But it becomes important for one of the candidates because the answer to that question is also being tested by his honesty in politics. Just as the same questions cannot be asked to a respected colleague, Letica, as another candidate. Because there are things that are more important for a fellow Flight than whether it has a program when it enters this assembly with a party program that it has left, which it normally agrees with very well. And when calling out fellow MPs here doesn't call Mr. Djapic who is also missing, he also doesn't have one, but he obviously uses this pay phone and this debate to try to harm a political opponent, which, to be clear, is perfectly legitimate, quite legitimate, but talks about how, about understanding politics as a profession and as an honorable job. These rules, if adopted according to the HDZ model, if the HDZ gets most of them together, will not come across a good reception with journalists. I did it myself as a journalist, followed the campaigns, that was before 2000, those were rules that weren't worth the Parliament's last call. It's been worth a long, long time. So when HDZ was the parliamentary majority. They actually only have one purpose. To completely cloud the policy area at the time of the election campaign. That this second day of showing these shows no longer knows who's talking or why he's talking or what he's talking about is relevant and interesting and invited to talk at all. Therefore, if this is to be achieved, and Mr Luka Bebic says that this is to be achieved and that this is what the HDZ will do, and that is why these rules remain because they correspond to HDZ, then it is simply necessary to say it honestly in front of the whole public. That this Parliament will legislate in fact to prescribe the profession, to the journalists, to order them to be uninteresting, to be boring, to do tiring shows, to do shows that no one is watching alive. And that actually means demeaning politics as a public job. That means telling the public all of them, hundreds of them that appear in a campaign with all kinds of motives. Someone to advertise their company because it's a free commercial if it comes out as an independent candidate. Others for some exhibitionist reasons. They know in advance that they have no chance of winning more than 0.005%. Third to be seen by his mother-in-law at home. That means sending a message to the public: "Here's all the same." And that message, it doesn't use democracy. She doesn't use the development of this society. She doesn't use what we'd all have to strive for, including Luka Babybic. Returning trust in politics as a public business. In politics as an action in the interest of the common good. Because unfortunately, because of these shows, and because of this campaign monitoring, that picture collapsed. And instead of bringing her back, instead of fixing her, we're pushing her thanks to her insistence on HDZ, we're pushing that picture further into the fungi. Such moves damage the development of this society, damage to the development of democracy, but I hope the public will recognize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96651	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96652	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Stazic said that I deceived the public when I presented the fact that Mr. Jurcic was getting paid without ever being in the assembly. First of all, the fact is that Mr. Jurcic is never in the assembly. Indeed, on the fingers of the left hand you can say when he was present in this assembly. It's his duty as parliamentary representative, he was elected to this duty and the fact is that I told the truth that he wasn't here. And I'm sure if he's getting paid in college, he's getting the pay difference for a council representative. So it doesn't matter to me, but it certainly does, there are receipts at the level of all the other parliamentary deputies and MPs because the addition to his salary has certainly been paid. So it's not about any delusion. There's no Mr. Jurcic here today, but that's what my colleague Letica said. He's been gone for the past month, two days, or years, or four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96653	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96654	You have rightly pointed out by your colleague Stazić here that the ruling does not want to enable one editorial independence that would make political programmes, or the presentation of political programmes to understandable voters. And there's no doubt that freedom of choice doesn't exist if people don't really know what they're about to commit. And that's what exactly the SDP with its proposal together with the rest of the opposition wanted to achieve. But there is hope. Article 28 first and foremost The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the rules, can neither be done nor in the existing rules, although practice I think went wrong in this direction orders that everyone be asked the same questions. We just wanted to do it with our own rules transparently to make the practice change. However, as the provision of Article 28 states, what can be prescribed and what has to be prescribed. It's shapes, time and way. But it also remains, regardless of the rules, the possibility remains, although it is better to do so in the rules and the work, but it remains the possibility for the media, for journalists to ask each one the question as it seems to them exactly according to their rules of profession, according to their view, in the way they consider it to be attractive, attractive to the audience, and what is essentially the viewers of each candidate and expect them to do so by law. And there's no rule that even existing rules can't stop them from doing that. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96655	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96656	I am very glad that my colleague Stazic discussed how he discussed it. He lost one natural thing, so I thought he fell in love. But the discussion shows that everything is fine with him. As far as the matter is concerned, fellow interns, you say they don't need rules. These rules have been passed by your coalition authority. As far as editorial independence is concerned, you saw what it looked like yesterday when five of our colleagues with Parliament presidents in the script of Mislava Baga turned into a cartoon in which Lesar lifts replicas and mocks the institution of the Parliament, but you said one thing wisely, and that's the most important thing. You have well noticed that yesterday HDZ showed that it has power over Croatian television. It is fantasticly sharply observed and that I can force Vanja, Vanju Sutlic to change practically in the moment of the program to leave my opponent in the first electoral unit of Jadranka Kosor to whom I announce a sharp and unfavourable battle and will not be able to manipulate Croatian television. That's what I promise you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96657	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96658	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like first of all to point to the fact that this debate on the rules is also actually showing how much damage it is that we have failed in the agreement that has become between parliamentary parties on the need for further regulation of the electoral system. Because it's not just, it's not just about the rules, it's about the Law on Political Parties and the Election Law and the financing of political parties, and then it's about further development of the State Election Commission and the rules themselves. All of this shows that we have a lot of things that are overcome, at least, and that should be set in a different way. Because it's worth starting with what we want to achieve. We in election campaigns should have co-operation with the media in order to influence public opinion. How? By informing and educating about the parties, programmes and candidates, we actually allow the voters to choose the best, most acceptable, the most realistic programmes and candidates who can achieve this and then the parties. Of course, if we look at it from that point of view then it's quite clear that the existing rules that are and those that are now in force are actually taken over from before can't in this respect open up enough space for the media to make it. What is very positive is that the media began not only to be aware but to articulate the desire to do that part of the job. And I'm surprised at why that part, at least to the extent that it allows for a valid election law that we haven't changed in time, doesn't change those rules and we don't try to regulate those relationships. I must say, my colleague Letica mentioned to my colleague Bebić and me as we advocated a deal. Namely, on the Committee on the Constitution, which we are members, the the thesis has been made that 95% of the consensus on the proposals offered by the opposition, the opposition party and the proposal offered by the majority coalition has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96659	A little more, a little more patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96660	Dear colleagues, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96661	Let's have peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96662	If such a high degree was achieved then we felt that further efforts should be made to reach an agreement by the end. Why? So you know the question of creating a public opinion that will actually be an additional instrument and content of achieving democracy and the development of democracy in us with the help of the media is a matter of interest over a particular party and individual population. And that's why it would be very important that, in this respect, in fact, sometimes a little of the narrow interest between, in relation to a particular party, to separate and rise, and in this respect, I think that those who are strongest must do the greatest... It's a voice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why I call on HDZ to accept the rules offered by the opposition parties, to accept that part and possibly correct with something that is really an additional expansion of the space for freedom and creative activity of the media in development and public... information and education of our voters and citizens. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] But like this part we got set up, it's too tight. It is too narrow and it eventually comes down to a material financial situation and a little to the time scale. The fact that prices must be pre-scheduled, i.e. the price of how much promotion messages will cost, etc. And listen, and if it had to be published, it should be a rule of conduct for jobs that should be okay. And they shouldn't prescribe these rules, they should prescribe something else. But that too, come on, there might be one newspaper. And I agree. I just don't understand why it would now be in a situation like this when we're all aware that the proposals signed by SDP, HNS, HSS, HSS, HSS, IDS, SDSS, so the composition clubs and clubs that have been in coalition relations with the ruling party have been more or less or less, why this would not be acceptable now and we are aware that there is an open debate on these rules, which will say that the ruling coalition is also aware that it is necessary to amend and supplement these rules. So why do we go make them change and supplement them in a way that we can, rather than change them in substance? I think we should change them in substance, in the part that the law certainly allows, and we wouldn't be in the sphere of impaling the opposite of the law. And the last thing I'd like to say is, well, it's a shame we haven't changed the law, we wouldn't have to discuss it at all today, it's the Parliament. We have passed the Law on the State Election Commission, which has its own professional part, which follows the conduct of the elections, gives opinions on the laws, etc., so we could also allow and it would be normal for them to prescribe criteria and rules of media behaviour with a concession at national level regarding elections that should be done not only by Parliament, you know. If Parliament, why should Parliament lay down rules, why should Parliament not be able to pass laws then if it considers that some important matters need to be resolved in the law. Otherwise, we will come to our senses in fact in some segments here on a part of the executive government that is practically trying to get an instrument that will provide a slightly better situation for this or that option, and it ignores actually that it can be at the expense of the overall development of democracy and democratic relations with us. I therefore call on HDZ to accept the rules offered by the coalition opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96663	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think that, so far, experience in the presentation of politics and politicians in the election campaign has shown dissatisfaction for citizens with such a performance of politics and politicians in the election campaign. If we as politicians reflect the interest of citizens, which is by definition our mission, then we would really have to change the criteria that have so far been valid. Moreover, for the development of democracy it is very important to ensure the independence and professionalism of journalists. They are an important link in the transfer of programmes, political positions of political parties and values that these parties represent between citizens and politicians and political parties. If we think that the freedom and professionalism of journalists can be broken by the rules, then we are on our way to determining what the interest of citizens is, or two of you who want to prescribe it determine what the interest of citizens is. We came into a vicious circle then, so we will argue that equality is what denies the practice so far, the programmes so far, the political action so far as we all are. In other words, it is as if counterpart Bebic advocates that he and counterpart Franjo Arabovic get the same suit at the start of political promotion. It's not possible to perform like that in front of citizens. Let's say that if we accept the practice so far that all the parties and those who ad hoc show up in the election promotion, so from promotion to promotion and have no activity or responsibility towards the citizens, to get the same questions, in this way we would actually discredit the right of citizens to learn more about those parties and those programmes that will create their future. Let's say one example. If I were a journalist, I would certainly ask all MPs of this term how it is possible to allow a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the agenda so that the rule of law could constantly and continuously prosecute wartime profits, robbers in fact of Croatia that took place in the Homeland War or under the auspices of the defense of the Republic of Croatia, that we failed on behalf of... Mr. President, then close the session if you don't need to speak. I'll do it again. Let's say it's the freedom of journalists or if I were a journalist in election promotion, I'd have any representative in the Croatian Parliament... My fellow Flyer is telling you again! And President-in-Office of the Parliament asked how it was possible not to discuss in the Croatian Parliament a proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to allow the rule of law to continuously and continuously implement wartime profits and robbers of the Croatian people who took place under the auspices of the defence of the Republic of Croatia against aggression, such a question if they remain such rules will not be laid down because it is not the interest of the ruling party, now the ruling party. This party wants its rules to establish that this is neither the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I advocate that the rules allow you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96665	Ladies and gentlemen, a little more patience. So give me some more!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96666	I advocate that the rules of electoral promotion allow the professionalism and creativity of journalists especially journalists of public media to intercede between citizens and their interests and policies and politicians and their interests of party or personal. So not to dig up the press but to give them and secure their freedom so that on behalf of the citizens...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96667	Why is it for some of you to continue with a higher degree of decibel? If it rings, it's a sign, it's a request, an appeal for dying, not an increase in noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96668	I could conclude that you are not interested in my speech, but he is addressed to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96669	Look, colleague Leko, I'm taking all the necessary efforts to allow you to get into a more peaceful atmosphere, and you're not returning it to me, you're criticizing it. Like I don't care what you say. So I'm doing everything I can to hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96670	Your creativity is generally known in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96671	Thank you for your compliment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96672	I'm impressed with you, but it's less important to me, it's more important for the citizens to hear what I'm saying than how impressed I am to you. I say that journalists gain freedom and creativity to intercede between citizens and their interests in questioning politics and politicians so that they can determine the views, priorities and values that the parties advocate and make the campaign such that citizens get better information than the ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96673	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, please let us listen to the vice president of the House, the respected representative Vesna Pusic. A little patience!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96674	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't bother you long with this, I'll just say three things that I think we've forgotten here. Introducing this is certainly not the most important decision this House will make, this is some sort of final cleaning of the house before the elections and preparations for the elections and, in that sense, it is probably appropriate to discuss it now. What I'd like to say is that we're a little bit in this debate whether the Parliament needs to determine the rules, journalists need to determine the rules we forgot about the purpose of the rules. The purpose of these rules is neither to take advantage of the opportunity to express our anger or dissatisfaction with certain media, nor to express our future sympathy and aspirations to different parties here in the Parliament. The purpose of these rules isn't even if absolutely everyone running for office has the same chance, it's not the first purpose of these rules. The first purpose of these rules is to inform quality citizens who go to the elections. There are two ways you can hide information. One is so you don't give it away, and the other is by hiding it in 2,000 pages. You'll have the same effect. So if you don't say something at all, or if you bury it in a mass of unnecessary information, people won't know what's relevant. The proposal of most of the parties in this House also contained the equality of opportunities in presenting the programme and, on the other hand, the editorial freedom and the mind that what is assigned, let's say, between 80 and 90% of citizens, is further presented to them as information so that the elections can be decided here. The important difference between the proposals of the clubs mentioned here, the first proposal in the procedure and the HDZ Club on the other hand, is whether the time before and after the main information emissions, in the first place means "The Diaries" will be stifled with a bunch of unnecessary information so as not to see those that are relevant and significant or not. The HDZ thinks they are better off suffocating that time before and after "The Diaries" simply with something that no one cares about so that there could be no expression of what might possibly be of interest to the citizens who decide. Because of these rules it is quite clear, probably no one will win or lose the elections, but the rules proposed by HNS, SDP, HSS and other clubs would show at least a little more respect for the citizens of this country who have the right to quality and relevant information based on the decision-making, but I repeat, no one will win or lose the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96675	Thank you. Representative of the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96676	Very short. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to point out once again why we have defined ourselves as the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that we are going nomotechnically with a decision on amendments to the existing rules, and we are not going with the amendments to the proposal of colleagues of these new rules that they propose. For the sole reason that the new rules drop those most important provisions on equality and equal opportunities that all political parties should have, which all participants should have. It was a fundamental principle which is why we are going with the decision on amendments and additions to the current... Secondly, our decision accepts almost everything offered by these amendments to your rules, we release a large part of the media space because a 45-minute broadcast is lifted, so the program space is free, and on the other hand we offer one new provision that says that publishers can display other contents that are not regulated by the rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we give full journalistic freedom to create completely different shows that can present the meaning of both political parties and independent candidates and independent lists. I therefore believe that our proposal is far more acceptable, it is in line with the Law on Elections, it contains all the necessary elements that the Law on Elections requires, rules that colleagues from opposition parties propose do not contain essential elements. I'm afraid those rules wouldn't hold up one serious assessment of legality in the Constitutional Court. And therefore, once again, we advocate that a decision be made to amend the rules in force. It is incorrect, as many here have said, that the rules in force prescribe for journalists what they must ask, that the rules in force make us all the same. That's not true. The applicable rules simply give us a chance to show that we are not the same, and therefore we suggest that this decision be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96677	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The rules on the handling of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia have not yet given an opinion to the Committee on the Constitution and we will not discuss this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96740	Mr. President, on your initiative the Committee on the Constitution has made, we propose a decision on the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96741	On my initiative? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's get ready to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96742	Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Community club, according to the points of our Rules of Procedure, is requesting a vote by hand-lifting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-12-0.u96743	And the last one with grief, the great sadness of our common I give to the vote. It's hard for me, it's hard for me to say, let alone suggest, but I have to. Proposal for a decision to dissolve the Croatian Parliament. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 130 votes to make the proposed decision. Congratulations to all MPs and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in the previous disbanded conference on their honor and responsibility for their entrusted work as representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Yeah, a housewife. [[Applause.]] We're going to a farewell party. A moment, a moment, a single portrait.
