ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86753	On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Mr. President, two things. Yesterday, on your proposal, the Parliament updated the agenda with 15 points, new points, and we did not get a consolidated agenda, given that several, 7-8 points were done yesterday, so I would ask you to allow us to keep normal monitoring of the agenda with the consolidated agenda. And it's especially important. On March 27th of this year, the State Statistics Institute also brought a paper on national classification of spatial units for statistics to the National Journal. Do not deny the right to a state-run institute under the Law on Official Statistics to make such a decision, I beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86754	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86755	Mr. President, please listen to me till the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86756	No, we can't suddenly... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86757	I'm begging you, Mr. President, just a minute. On behalf of the club, I guess I'm entitled to a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86758	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86759	As President of the Parliament, please ensure respect for the decisions of the Croatian Parliament by state institutions with public powers, because this decision of the State Bureau of Statistics is the opposite of the decision of the Croatian Parliament in June 2003 and I ask you to call a session of the Presidency with the presidents of the clubs, ask for an indication of the government and the state institution for which circumstances and reasons the decision of the Croatian Parliament is not respected in order to further determine what to do to ensure that the state authorities respect the decisions of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86760	You weren't at dinner yesterday for the end of the debate in the assembly, so that's why you didn't... No, you weren't, because if you were then you'd see, then you'd hear, and I'd hear you, you don't know what I said because you can't know when you weren't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yesterday I explained why it is deviating from the order of the agenda and that it will start today, and I explained these reasons in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and explained that today it is going to go with this law on amendments to the Pension Fund Act and then the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance Companies, the payment of pensions based on individual capitalised savings and the addition of the Law on Intervention with Ensuring and After that, the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which needs to be discussed today in half two more and the Committee, will therefore be explained, and the consolidated agenda will also be drawn up. As for this other one, the initiative. It is not the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, at all in its section, to discuss and decide whether the Croatian Parliament is something, whether its conclusions are respected, it is elsewhere. You object in written form why according to your allegations is not done according to the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. We can't discuss this now or call the presidency. Let's move on. Proposer representative State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vera Babic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86761	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. Very short in a few sentences allow me to present a proposal on amendments to the Retirement Fund Act. So, as you know, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision, which the amendments entered into force on 16 February this year, extended the circle of beneficiaries of pensions entitled to compensation to the users of the highest pensions and to the users of family pensions that were made after 1 January 1999 and after the death of the pensioner. In view of the fact that it is a law which is actually in the function of the technical implementation of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision in accordance with the novels of that law, since February 2007, it is proposed to propose appropriate amendments to the Retirement Fund Act. This proposal would therefore be subject to the proposal to settle the following basic issues. So membership in the Pension Fund is expanding to those groups as I said at the outset. The right to compensation for these groups of users shall be exercised by establishing a new type of share for pensioners who choose the right to acquire and make available shares over two years or who will decide to pay in the next 8 years with a start of two years. Some amendments have been introduced into the law which have proved necessary in the process of exercising the right to compensation, for example in the present application. shortening the time limit for making a declaration on the method of payment of the compensation more precise regulation of the procedure and so on. As regards the new type of share, the deadlines for the first and last payment of the share are prescribed for two years, and the last payment would be due by 30 June of this year, and the last one not later than the end of the 4th quarter of 2008 is determined, i.e. the way for determining the payment of the share to 8 years. Since the proposal for a law extends the circle of persons entitled to compensation for these groups of pensioners, pensions as well as those previously need to carry out the process of calculating the differences, the reporting of membership and the level of compensation by the selection of the payment model, so that cooperation between the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Society for the Management of the Fund, with the obligation of society to report everything to the Management Board of the Fund and the Government as the founder of the Fund, is also prescribed. Therefore, the adoption of this Act will complement the applicable Pension Fund Act, thus enabling the performance of obligations to the users of the highest and family pensions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86762	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy. Committee President-in-Office Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86763	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 72nd session of the Committee held on 18 April 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pension Fund with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. In a brief discussion, the Committee members agreed on the need to adopt this proposal. As the addition of the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has been extended since 12 May 1998, a circle of beneficiaries of pensions who have the right to compensation to the users of the highest and family pensions is also required to extend those two groups of pensioners. After the discussion, members of the Committee voted mostly, 7 for and 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Fund Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86764	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86765	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club holds that this year is not an election question is whether this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Fund Act would also appear as well as whether amendments to the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision would take place since 12 May 1998. We can rightly say this because in 2004, when the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was adopted on 12 May 1998, we made it clear that this law is restrictive and that it is not, it does not implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 12 May 1998, and that is how the decision itself is established. So it's a good situation, and it's obvious that it might be a good thing that they are, that every year they are electoral, maybe the government would be far better able to solve all the problems that arise and which should be solved as such. This is why we hope that this year we will address the issue of these pensioners who were retired after 1.1.1999 who are in a difficult position with regard to pensioners who have previously retired for pensions. We must again be aware of the real situation when it comes to this Constitutional Court decision that this is the part which is essentially a matter can be spoken of legally and indemnity but that is the debt. And that was according to us and then we were told in 2004 and when the Constitutional Court decision was made in 1998. That the part belongs if the pensioner who had it right to die that part of it and enters its hereditary part and that it is, that this was how it was to be solved immediately and all. Unfortunately, and now, we have a situation that even under these amendments from the law means that the Constitutional Court's decision will not be re-imbursed again, nor will they be returned to the debt in view of the deadlines set. Let's just say it's not going to be specific about political prisoners. So we really expect the government to solve that part of the problem because there are again groups that have not made a family pension. So there wasn't this part that, and the thing is clear. If the pensioner who had this right to the Constitutional Court's decision is then it belongs to the inheritance mass and the legacy part that needs to be solved in that way. But normally, when we talk about this part, I also agree with the view that the Mirovinski Fund, or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, is a giant on glass feet, and it is obvious that with economic reform one effective reform of the pension system must be made because we know that today it is such a situation that this fund can be charged because of the sale of either Pliva or some other company, and after we have no more to sell, and we know that 60% for the payment of monthly pensions, the Croatian Institute collects from the contributions and the rest from the state budget. We know that at this point, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is looking for a total of 20 billion kuna in procedures for various debts that are not paid contributions to pension insurance and that I am not talking about that part of 12 billion related to the part that the requirements are related to the bankruptcy process. On the other hand, we have a situation that 11 to 15 billion kuna per year loses the state budget because of the grey economy. There is no valid answer for the situation that many employers unfortunately report on the minimum wage of their workers and, as such, pay these minimum contributions, what is the obligation of law. In this way, there is double damage, damage in terms of collecting contributions from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and tomorrow, that is, when a person is entitled to a pension, he will only be in a difficult situation when his pension is calculated in principle. Therefore, normally we will support this law because it still solves another circle further. But I'm saying this could have been solved a long time ago, but it means we expect to create and complete reforms in this part of the pension part, and that we finally need to understand what a difficult situation is and the situation of the pensioners when we know how many pensioners are, which is the ratio of the number of pensioners to the number of insurance workers and that this is the part that really deeply concerns the pensioners themselves, and we should probably also be concerned about the representatives and the Croatian government. So it's to expect the state to start doing what it does to kill what belongs to this part of 11 to 15 billion kuna how much the annual state budget is lost because of the gray economy and also to solve the issue of all pensioners, which part is damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86766	Thank you. The HSU Club is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86767	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates, gentlemen of the Croatian Pension Insurance Service, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, 43,000 pensioners arrived at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the beneficiary of compensation a year of the expected law. A law that creates all assumptions that beneficiaries of compensation can be informed of the amount of compensation, gives them an opportunity to make known about the compensation model, to be included in the register of fund members, and that they can also be paid compensation for the first war for variant A by the end of June 2007. Therefore, following the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Retirement Fund Act, it is necessary to implement, within very short time limits, in accordance with the envisaged procedure for amending and supplementing the Statute of the Fund, the amendments to the content of a form of notification of compensation and modification of the content of the statement of members of the Fund, and, as soon as possible by the end of next week, to send notifications to the members of the Fund and to establish an additional register of members of the Fund, members of the Pension Fund. We in Croatia have very double feelings for pensioners at the moment. On the one hand, it is a pleasure that the process is finally moving, and on the other hand it is a bitter taste because of the year-round effort and the warning that this problem should be solved and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being delayed or God forbidded by marginalising this problem to lead to a time-constraint and to question his credibility before the citizens without need. In doing so, future fund members will have very short deadlines to declare. In Croatia, the foreigners of pensioners know that these amendments and additions to the Pension Fund Act are corrected by one injustice and one mistake that occurred at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the first calculation, and because of the rigid, restrictive, or unilateral interpretation of the provisions of the laws mentioned, and contrary to the spirit and provisions of the Constitutional Court, which is the basis of these laws and the legal basis of compensation or debt to the citizens as they call it collokually and recognise it. It's not our intention at this point to explore how and why a mistake has arisen. But we can say that it is inadmissible that over the past year from a political agreement to solve the problem, and this political agreement was on 27 March 2006 to create a presumption of a solution. I know that in Croatia, we are foreigners of pensioners who are far more pressured by citizens than any other political party because those citizens who address us daily are in later years and do not have the will to listen to promises as well as time for long waiting. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to understand and appreciate us even more. If that were the case, I would also quote the European Court of Human Rights ruling from Strasbourg at the Council of Europe, which in the case of Počuca v hrvatska, i.e. in Article 46, that, in view of what was important for the applicant, the court reiterates that special zeal and reasoning are needed in pension disputes. The peace of mind of the applicants was previously reduced and therefore, given his age, the procedure he objected to was indisputable to him. Therefore, it was found in the ruling that the claim relating to the excessive length of the procedure that it was authorised and the compensation of the prosecutor was determined. So it's just one argument that this whole story takes too long. We had this accident that as a Croatian party of pensioners, we faced this problem for 6 years, with 6 years of delay. And of course we've initiated that problem to end in the way it seems today. What we are doing today is not and cannot be shown as a charity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is extremely fond of the pensioners. This is the result of the political dialogue of the Croatian Party of Retired and Retired Associations and their efforts towards all the governments of the Republic of Croatia so far to address the problem of compensation. It was the obligation of previous governments, the current government, and that it stands by the dynamics of payoffs and at least two other governments towards their citizens, who had these previous governments and abolished them. And all based on the Constitutional Court's decision of 18 May 1998. Today's or today's government has taken the obligation to finalise the process through an individual accounting of compensation and financial resources in accordance with the economic possibilities that all of us are bound by the Constitutional Court's decision. And that's what needs to be acknowledged and that's what needs to be appreciated. The effects of compensation of family and highest pensions, so this new group, this new number of members of the Pension Fund. In total, there are 43,000 219 persons, therefore pensioners or their heirs, for whom compensation has been calculated, of which 35 thousand 456 persons are entitled to compensation and will receive the difference to the full amount of compensation. And these 7 thousand 763 are using the previous compensation institutions, which is the Institute 100 kuna and 6% with a one-time pension increase from 2001 from 0.5 to 20% paid. The total nominal amount of compensation is one billion and 403 million, and the actual amount paid will depend on the individual selection of the compensation model and the attribution of the interest of 19.97%. It should be pointed out that it is a circle of family and limited pensions, so that it is those family pensions that were paid after 1 January 1999, and by 5 August 2004, that our citizens are not mistaken for the fact that now those family pensions who have already received the bill will receive some reckoning. They're just the family ones that didn't get their first notice. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party, we have proposed two amendments. Article 3 of the proposed paragraph 2 provides for the possibility of objecting to the management company of the Pension Fund, so the HPB Invest, which puts new, therefore, additional members of the Pension Fund in a different legal position since former members of the Pension Fund have invested directly with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. It should be recalled that the HPB Investment Company is a company of capital registered under the Commercial Society Act and cannot be a qualified entity in which the first-degree legal protection procedure for citizens is initiated in the course of proceedings under the Administrative Court. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment to which the objections have been referred to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so home in which the problem is technically considered and arises, without blaming anyone here. The second amendment is complemented by Article 4. Amendment and addition of the Pension Fund Act and defines the start and final payment period for beneficiaries of compensation by model b), hence the full amount of compensation. We believe that if a mistake is made, it should be corrected within the deadlines for payment, so for variant b) in 2007-2012. Not analoguely extend the deadline to 2008 and 2013. I know the behaviour and intention of the promoter, but also the previous government, but the previous governments did so to deal with as little money as possible with as many problems as possible. But in the final amount of compensation 200 to 300 million kuna paid more or less over the next 6 years makes the difference between total compensation at less than 1%. This is no reason for more than 20 years to pass from the beginning of the problem to its final resolution, so there is no valid reason for the end of the payoff to go to the third decade of life of this problem. I remind you that the problem was created and began in 1993. These deadlines, which I speak of in the existing law, are not fixed and not recognised by the existing law, but are specified in the personal documents of the Fund members by means of the formulations of Article 24(1) of the present law. It is precisely because this is not a gift, but the obligation of the state to pay the variations b) does not require any analogue approach to interpreting the law to extend the payment deadline. And if it's already done by the new members, then we have to calculate the interest differently because of the longer wait, then we have to think about another fact. Therefore, of course, if we have initiated this problem, of course, and even in the proposed form, we will vote for this and support this law. But we appeal that, we appeal to the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament to adopt these two amendments, because they also protect the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government and respect the rights and needs of future members of the pension funds, their families and heirs, and give us all credibility in the implementation of this whole project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86768	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86769	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect claim by the esteemed representative of Hrelje that all the governments so far have damaged the pensioners. The pensioners were damaged by only one government, the HDZ government at the time of Prime Minister Valentic when the regulation ceased to bring pensions into line with wage growth. All later on, the government, starting from Matesha's government, particularly through Prime Minister Racan's government to this government of Prime Minister Sanader, sought then to continue to repay the debt. Matešina through 6% plus 100,00 kuna, Racanova through a special law on increasing pensions given those different periods of retirement, this government under the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision. One's damaged, all the others are returning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86770	HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrng. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86771	Dear Mr. President, the honored representatives of the ministry and the fund. We have yet another correction of the pensioner's debt, so another follow-up to the story that has been going on since the 1990s, and of course everyone smart will welcome such a decision to include this group of pensioners in repaying the debt and that every smart one will, of course, commend this government that has found a way, so the money to repay that debt. But this is an opportunity to look back a little bit on how this debt came about, and it's important to explain to the arguments because this debt is very often politicized, so we've heard some stories, you've made a debt to them. No one has made a debt to the Serb aggression that has made the situation I am now going to talk about and no one will repay the debt to the Croatian state, or the Croatian people from their pockets. So what happened to the total income? Same thing that happened with the gross social product. In 1991, the gross social product fell 21.1%). It's a record of a one-year decline in gross social product in Europe after World War II. The next 92 years, the gross social product continued its steep fall and dropped 11.7% and 93%. 8%. When we add it all together, it's a 50% drop in gross social product in three years, and all the time the needs were enormously high because the whole time was a defensive war. Why am I saying that? So let's see what happened in 96 to 98, so the year to which the Constitutional Court's decision and to which this debt applies. In numbers if we say what that percentage of gross social product means. In the '90s, it's 23 billion and 93. 15 billion kuna. So only in three years, dollars. Only in three years 8 billion dollars of gross social product cuts. Of course, there are pensions, salaries, and all the rest. When we compare potential growth if there were no Serbian aggression and take only the rate of growth of the gross social product of Slovenia, then the loss in the first three years for the Croatian state is equal to 12 billion kuna. In three years, 12 billion less, I apologize not to the kuna because then there were none but all I speak in dollars. In three years, 12 billion dollars less than it would have been if we'd only grown by the rate of gross social product of Slovenia, which was 2.8 to 3%. When we go from 90th to 98th when the Constitutional Court makes a decision, the average increase in gross social product in Slovenia is 3.6% of the total loss of 41 billion dollars. In these circumstances, the debt that we are talking about has arisen, and in these circumstances the culprit should also be sought, not with these figures politicised. In other words, in 90 to 98, we lost two annual, approximately, two-year gross social incomes, so as if no one in the country had created anything for two years. Of course, this trend will continue, so statistics show that by 2015 we will lose a total of 8 annual gross national incomes from 1990 due to the impact of the war. These are the circumstances in which Croatia is located and which we must accept. As for the 96th and 97th periods, the decline begins, the increase in gross national income starts but at a rate which is incomparably lower in a positive sense than was a negative rate in previous years, and it ranges between 5 and 6% in order to slow the drop to 2.5% annually in the 98th. Let's remember the 98th year is the last year of the defensive Homeland War, that's the year when the reintegration of the Podutunov comes, but also the year in which we've cut off the budget a very significant sum for a possible war settlement until the peace signing. And of course 99 again follows a negative growth sign of 0.9%. These are the circumstances we've been in. And why, then, did the government allow this failure for the pensioners to get less than it belonged to them? It's obviously a mistake. In these conditions, the government of Nikica Valentiæ who prepared the financial "Storm", so a decisive action to free 30% of occupied Croatian territory, the government of Nikica Valentiæ was very careful about the rate of wages and pensions, and I personally was in charge of the government to monitor this increase and compare this salary and pension ratio with other countries, and we always tried to make pensions between 40% and 45% of the average wage, thus comparing ourselves with other countries in transition, but obviously we failed well because here the court ruled that we were wrong. So it was wrong in terms that were financially such that this error was the only possible solution. There wasn't any money. The distribution was such that the salaries at that time remembered, fell to 150 of the then DEM monthly, that I'm not talking about that we couldn't go into any kind of debt because we were under an international, practically international embargo to get any additional capital. This is why this great debt, whose return means an absolute collapse of the state budget when it comes back from the budget, is why all governments to this Government of the Republic of Croatia are grinding under the rug, which is completely understandable because it is impossible to repay such debt from the budget. This government, in co-operation with the Retired Association, has promised to repay the debt and has found one solution that will not bring down the state budget, but will allow the repayment of the debt as determined by the law. We know that the government solved or passed the law in 2004. This was the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98 and the Law on the Pension Fund adopted in 2005 whose amendments and additions are now ahead of us. The solution is quality, simple and creative. So, as we know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established the Fund by this Act, established a fund management company to settle this debt, hence the compensation of our pensioners, the Government of the Republic of Croatia imports into the Fund financial assets, shares, shares, bonds and real estate and from that value is then paid the total debt. The reservations of the shares intended for the Croatian Government Fund shall be made by special decisions. The assets of the Fund are divided into shares, as you know, members have stakes according to the choice of two or eight years of repayment of this debt and these shares cannot be transferred nor can they be subject to an exercise guaranteeing the stability of this Fund of course. However, it was subsequently found that the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of '98. Two groups of pensioners have been fired for years. These are primarily family pension beneficiaries who made pensions after 1 January of '99, and after the death of the beneficiary of pensions that would be entitled to compensation. These other groups of pensioners, these are the highest pensions made by 31 December '98. A year. So one large group of pensioners has been reneged, and the government has found a solution. Yes, of course our colleagues, representatives of the pensioners, say that a solution has been sought too long. A solution has been sought because it is again huge money, and we will not burden the state budget because we must remain within the budget deficit of 3% and 2.8% for this year. That's why of course you're stalling. The remarks that this was brought now in the election year, one of his colleagues said the same thing, I think counterpart Kovacevic, are also dropping out because the government's Debt Reimbursement Act, which brought pensioners to 2004 in the first year of its term of office. If she wanted to use it as an election card, she'd bring it to this election year. Therefore, these are the truths and facts, and most importantly, our pensioners will be compensated under conditions accepted by this House. In the law ahead of us, this Retirement Fund Act focuses on this new solution and on repaying the debt for these two groups of pensioners. Thus, Articles 1 and 2 as the State Secretary, Ms Babic, said, allow for the repayment of the debt to the Pension Fund for these two groups, and this will follow in the second and third years of the Fund, again in two ways, within two or eight years according to the regulations laid down here. Some shortcomings in the current law are also corrected, and these relate to improving the process of shortening the time limit for showing the information to 15 days. So it improves and speeds up and simplifies the whole process. I think it is far more important to point out that this government has again shown its creativity, respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, social sensitivity to pensioners who have been suspended in those years, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling and that it has found a solution that will be least painful for both the state budget and the entire economy, and correct the injustice that the Constitutional Court has ruled. It is not surprising, therefore, that some other countries and their governments have taken an interest in this debt recovery mechanism because they want to examine it in fulfilling certain obligations towards their pensioners and government employees in their own countries. I would take this opportunity to say that the Club of Representatives will, of course, support these amendments, and I also use the opportunity to congratulate both the Resort Ministry and the Fund because they carry out this very complex task based on the law of large numbers, fate, without practically any major remark and without any major error. That's why I think this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86772	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86773	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Andrija Hebrang who said that this government has found a way to repay the pensioners without burdening the state budget. That's an incorrect quote. It is true that this government has been on the return of debt to pensioners through the sale of national wealth, national silver and thus repaying debt to pensioners who have not been recognised by the HDZ government to Matešina, and this government is now returning it, selling it from national treasures and Plive tomorrow, the INA, HEP and when we exhaust these opportunities, when we no longer have what to sell again, the state budget will be delegated to another government to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86774	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86775	It is an incorrect claim by the esteemed representative Hebrang that all of the governments so far are this problem melji under the carpet. I think Matesha's Government through 6% plus 100 kuna paid back some of the debt, and in particular Racan's Government through the Retirement Law, given the different conditions of retirement, has returned about 20 billion kuna. This government admits because in the notices of this PBZ investee it is clear to pensioners that through 6 kuna plus, through 6% plus 100 kuna it has been returned so much, through this other law so much and the mass of them has been informed that they no longer have the right to return because of their debt being paid back, and some have even been written and that they have received more than they have been owed, which means that this debt has been done through these two forms of laws, and this government, of course, can't do anything else. That's the only thing he doesn't recognize as a representative of Hebrang. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86776	Next correction, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86777	Not the exact quote of fellow Hebrang, I quote him, "All governments have been grinding the problem under the carpet, to this government." The truth is, as far as the coalition government is concerned, no HDZ government has fully recognised the debt. In part, Matešina admitted it, and between 1995 and 2000, in this House at least 5 times, it was responsible that nothing was owed to the pensioners. Just watch the arrival of the coalition government is fully acknowledged that a debt has been made not by the government but by the previous government and that it is an obligation to return it and what the Constitutional Court says. Only after that is consciousness or are they forced to return as well as is known and washed. So it's not true that the melo under the carpet, it's done HDZ persistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86778	And the next correction, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86779	Your Honor, Mr. President! I believe it was a lapus, but I have to correct it, because a respected colleague of Hebrang said that this government with the Retirement Association has solved this problem. I know a lot of them would like us to be the Association of Retired People, but we are a Croatian party of pensioners, a parliamentary party. The government has also agreed with the Croatian Party of Retired and Pension Associations to address this problem. Second, two categories of pensioners fell out. It's impossible to turn out two categories. Terminologically, that claim does not stand. Second. Third, this contributes to the functioning of the rule of law, not the social sensitivity of the government. So, I underline. This is a contribution to the functioning of the rule of law of Croatia, not the social sensitivity of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86780	SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86781	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP welcomes the bill and will vote for its adoption. It is clear that we accept and welcome this bill because the SDP has warned for over a year and a half that the problem exists. And that the law does not cover two categories of pensioners, completely unwarranted. Users of family pensions and users of limited pensions. In February 2006, our representative, Dragica Zgrebec, referred a parliamentary question to the government in which she asked, why did the family pensioners not receive a debt recovery bill? She also received a written reply from the government saying among other things. Family pensioners have no right to compensation. After January 1, '99. In the years following the entry into force of the Pension Insurance Act, therefore, persons who met the conditions for the exercise of the right to a family pension have exercised that right under the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, thus being excluded from the right to repay the debt. The government still says. Once again, we draw attention to the exclusion of family pension beneficiaries who made pensions after 1 January '99. Therefore, according to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, there is no speciality in relation to the users of other pensions, since all pensioners, who made pensions after 1 January 1999, are all beneficiaries of pensions. the years excluded from the right to recover or repay the debt, given that the debt did not even arise. I repeat, since their debt didn't even arise. That was the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That family pensioners don't have the right to repay their debt because they don't have a debt. The government, meanwhile, has changed its mind. We welcome this change, because this change in the government's opinion means that these two categories of pensioners will also be covered by this law. A colleague of Hrelj says he is surprised that it has been a year since the government agreed between the Croatian party of pensioners until the day of its arrival, the government is operationally proposing it. You don't have to be surprised. It's perfectly logical because last year wasn't an election year, so the government didn't have any intention of solving the issue of two categories of pensioners in a year that wasn't elected, I don't know what, 26 grand or 30. In the election year, of course, the government has the will to resolve this issue. There is an article in the law that we also need to discuss. This is now the possibility of objecting to this society, actually to a company of commerce on that notice that the pensioners get about the level of debt. We've highlighted the problem so far. According to this law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, the pensioner was not given a solution from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but was informed by a company about the level of their debt. This company’s notice is certainly not an administrative act. So the administrative act, something that is not an administrative act, can't even be pointed out. We warned that it wasn't a good solution. That when it went to individual debt returns, it had to be settled so that each pensioner would get his own solution by calculating. And get it from a body, a state body with public authority. So, from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, not some company. Notice. Now, this law, in order to cover up this real big problem, predicts that pensioners now mean these two categories that get the notice, not everyone else, can object to who? The company's doing it again. For what? On notice. Well, listen, it's cheating on those pensioners. What objection to the notice first? A meeting of the Committee on Agriculture is being held, and now someone will write a complaint. They're still not getting an administrative act. So it's the point of complaining about something that's not an administrative act. Now, with this change, the pensioners will get the impression that they're getting some right to complain, but that right is completely pointless. It doesn't have any purpose. It will still not receive a solution and will not continue to receive an administrative act that would make sense to object. And then the law shouldn't change that, because it's in itself understood. The respected representative Hebrang spoke of reasons for the formation of debt in the country's conditions when Valentiæ's government stopped harmonising pensions with salary hikes. It's wartime, the state needs money for weapons, it has to defend itself, and it's certainly reached into the pension fund, where the money was. These days or the last months, we've witnessed where all that gun money went and that the gun money wasn't going to the secret and private accounts, but that it was being used to get the guns then maybe it wasn't supposed to reach the pension fund. If it hadn't been for stealing then, it wouldn't have been necessary to reduce pensions or not to coordinate them, but the money collected for the weapon was stolen, so there wasn't enough but had to be taken from the pensioners. Where exactly did the pensioners come from? Because they're the weakest target. They couldn't resist, they agreed, they were passive. How was this problem treated later? I've already said, Matheshina's government has begun to solve this problem, she's started paying 6% plus 100 kuna for those pensioners who have been damaged. It seems to me that that form has been returned, but the secretary of state may know about six billion through that form. At the time of Racan's government not at the end of the term of office, not at the end of the election year at the end of the term of office but in 2000, the first year of the term of office was passed by the Law on increasing pensions to eliminate differences in the level of pensions achieved in different periods. The law's a little clumsy. Then he should have already called it the Reimbursement Bill for the pensioners because he was it, he was it de facto. Under the law, pensions were increased from 0.5 to 20% by 700 thousand pensioners but for them 600,000 were raised at a maximum amount of 20% and this meant a significant increase in pensioner standards. That it was a repayment of the debt of payment under that law that began on 1 January 2001, that it was a debt repayment, as I said in the correction of the quote to Mr Hebrang, this is evident in every solution that the pensioner received, in each notice, there is no solution. In each of these notices, it says to you, by law, 6% plus 100 kuna has been paid back so much, and according to the Retirement Law, given the different retirement periods, you have been paid back so much, so you have so much to pay back. Or for a large number of them it writes, so your debt is zero. Some write to you even paid more than the debt amounts which is logical because these payments are according to this Racan law, the Racan government's law they run all the time until man lives. That increase is worth it all the time, not until his debt is returned, but as long as he lives. Therefore, the debt was returning. Sanader's government admits that, too. When it was passed this law we said we should just keep paying back that debt and the injustice would be corrected. Okay, Sanader's government had a different solution, individual debt repayment. We don't mind. We're always happy when the pensioners get something. But how does this debt now come back under this law? Two wars have been paid so far. First in a way that was in charge of the Post Office Bank, the first war was in charge of the state. For the second war, she took the property of the pensioner, the Pliva stock, and she sold it and paid off that money for another tranche. So those of the pension property, of their money because those shares belonged to the pensioners. She took it, sold it and returned another tranche, so the pensioners de facto paid themselves a debt of their own. If it had remained in the portfolio of the Pension Insurance Fund, the Pension Insurance Office would have brought in some shares. And that would be some money and that money would stay for pensioners to pay off their pensions. But it took theirs to pay them back. It's almost like I owe you Mr. Hebrang some money, come to your apartment, take your picture, sell it so I pay you back. Well, that's what this government did, that's how she repays the debt. We're also warning of the position of new pensioners. Through these three laws, Matešini 6% plus 100 kuna, Racan's Government's increase in pensions, Sanader's government repays this fulfillment of the Constitutional Court's decision. It is resolved especially now through these corrections, through greater coverage means all pensioners who have the right, the issue of old pensioners is resolved. But we warn, we have a bigger problem in society the position of new pensioners, differences for the same internship and the same salary is 600-700 kuna today. The SDP has proposed a law to get rid of this, implement the law. The HDZ and parliamentary majority rejected it. So much for that, Mr. Hrelja. So much for how much your coalition partner cares about a pensioner. They have rejected a law that would balance the position of new pensioners with the now better position of old pensioners and under which these people would get away with poverty, leave them where they are, reject such a law. However, we will still vote for this bill because it is certainly the correcting of injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86782	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86783	Says esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, a colleague of Hrelja, wonders. At no point did I express my surprise and I said it was And I said, at no point did I express my surprise, and I said it was unacceptable that it was more than a year from a political decision to here's an amendment to the Retirement Fund Act. [[Intruder: Microphone on.]] It should also be recalled that not only did this government sell out the property of the pensioners but the past government did so. And I think it's okay that those who created it got from that property. And third, don't speak, we voted in favour of your Law on the Equality of New and Old Retired. In this Croatian Parliament. But it's not a recipe. It's not a recipe for equalization. And it can't be evening. So he's got big foulings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86784	Next correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86785	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Stazic is in conflict with the arguments. He came out again with several incorrect allegations. First, that this is an electoral law because the election year is not true because the government passed the Reimbursement Act 2004. So in the first year of his term, not in the last year. If she had such an evil intention, she would have done it today. Secondly, Valentiæ's government reached out to the Pension Fund because there was money there. There was no money there because the Pension Fund was low 40% in the first three years of Serbian aggression. Third, it's incorrect that the gun money was stolen. Ten percent of the total value of that money has disappeared, and I hope it will be punished. But 90% of the money went for guns, and this claim isn't right. But the correct claim is that we had to take anywhere to free the country because Serbian aggression took 41 billion kunas in the eight years of the young Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86786	Third correction, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86787	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Stazic said on behalf of the Club that the Croatian government had to sell Pliva 7, to sell Pliva shares to compensate the pensioners. Well, Mr. Stazic said that the government remained 21%, 25.1% of shares would not have happened without you and your government selling to top secret 7% of Pliva shares without anyone knowing either the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian public. And that's where it's 7% because we don't know it yet today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86788	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86789	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here we are slowly coming to the truth. Is, come on, they sort out both HDZ and HSS, HSU, this problem but debt repayment is primarily solved by the property that was created by 1990. In one word, Mr. Hrelja's pensioners took note of the debt. How do you do that? So this year or last year, we sold those 25% of INAs, and now he should have, for two wars, and now we should sell him another 25% of HT for the remaining two wars. So she's coming back with a debt that didn't privatize and was created primarily by generations from 1945 to 1990. But let's just say it doesn't matter now whose term of office he returns to. It's a good thing this law came in. It's also good that Mr. Stazic mentioned these secret accounts. It's partly true because it's been an aggression I dare say within aggression to this country's monetary existence. We could have mentioned the conversion, the sale of national systems and so on. But it's good, one more time I'm going to say that this law has appeared. The more the Constitutional Court evened the working age for men and women yesterday. What it's like to say two sentences elsewhere, women in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus working up to 55 years. In rich countries like Sweden up to 65 years old. In Norway, up to 67 years old. The life span in Croatia for men is 72 years. For women 79 years. Seven years live longer. Oh, God, that's even longer. When can we retire the earliest? Of course, 60-year-old men in the early one. He's a regular at 65. In women 55 years and 60 years, respectively. And what's also important is the share of the old in the Croatian population or in the nation. In Croatia, the share of over 65 years was as much as 17.2% in the total population or 770,000 people. Just today after this decision of the Constitutional Court, I read an interesting comment by Dr. Gojko Bežovan, who said that all those who will retire in the next 20 years would have to start saving or investing in real estate. That's great if the salary wasn't on average three or four or five thousand kunas. As far as the law itself is concerned, I've already said it's a commendable measure. I support her. Santa Claus, too. Debt recovery absolutely. I think this approach is as correct. There may be one problem that some warn me about. Others say he won't escalate. And that's that if someone retired before the end of 1998 has the right to return, but if someone got a family pension before 1.1.1999, then they have no right to return, and those after 1.1.1999 do. If so, it would be worth correcting because it would mean that you should not have died before 1.1.1999. So if that's the case, then the law needs to be extended to these people rather than creating new possible injustices on this basis. What you need safely after a whole series of packages of these pension laws to do is to harmonise so-called. Old and new pensioners. The question is, is that possible? Of course it's possible. How? To do more work in this country. To allow people to work. Let them work. How we intend to repay or pay off better said pensions. Only money coming into the budget. I don't know how many days ago, we talked about the textile industry for a month. So we see that the number of employees in 5.6 years is lower by 10 thousand which is not the biggest tragedy but the size of business is smaller by several billion kunas in 2005 compared to 2000 and so on and so on. We have to understand in one word that without jobs, without industry, we're not going to have a good time. In this country up to 500 kuna in Croatian retirement, I don't know if it's, can it even be called a pension, what is it? The pension of up to 500 kuna in this country is received by 61493 Croatian pensioners. From 500 kuna to 1000 kuna, even 116968 kuna. What is it possible to do with 1,000 kuna? From 1000 to 1500 kuna, 156293 people receive. From 1500 to 2000 kuna pension is received by 295016 persons. So, from 500 kuna to that average pension in those classes is 629000 people. From 2000 to 3000, 272000, from 3000 to 4000 97000, from 4 to 5000 27000, from 5000 to 6000 9100, 6000 to 7000 21000, from 7000 to 8000 of them 320. So it's a total of a million 38 thousand 806 Croatian pensioners who are in those classes. From that age pension, he receives 570,000 people with disabilities, 236,000 people with a family of 233,000. It's a good thing we talked today and mentioned this social pension. But in Croatia, parallel with these laws, there should be a debate about jobs and what life means. It's easy to share clearly when there is. It's easy to sell to the INA or the HT that someone created for you. But let's look at the state of that pension system now. In Croatia today, we have a million 498 thousand 877 insurance companies versus one million 80,000 571 pensioners. So, out of that number of million 499 thousand insurance companies, let's say 200,000 of us who are on a budget salary plus 40,000 people work in insolvency companies, and then it turns out that a million 250 000 arbitrary jobs, clearly there should be those who work in that service of utility companies, administrations, INAs, HRTs, etc. So it must support 200,000 people in calling it a upgrade, regardless of what we're all aware of, I don't know, there's no life without people who work in health, education, police, judiciary, military, etc. But they also need to maintain a million and 80,000 pensioners plus 300,000 unemployed plus the social community to provide such economic activity by building some roads, schools, prisons, I don't know. It is simply a Croatian reality, and it is best seen through this very Croatian Pension Insurance Institute where contributions reach only 60% of the needs of pensioners or some 28 billion kunas in the last year. The Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance from Contribution, meaning the Croatian economy is making only 15.7 billion kuna, which will say that 12 to 13 billion kuna this year is it will certainly be and more must be transferred to the fund from the state budget. The average pension for 2006 was 39.7% of the average salary. The average pension in 2005 was 41.32% higher. The average pension in 2003 was understandablely higher than in 2005. 42.6% and the average pension in 2001 was again higher than the average pension in 2003. She made 43.6% of the average salary. That pension that was made at full-time is 62.37% or cca somewhere is four, about 2600 kuna with the problem of new pensioners here. We see the acute from those numbers. It's clear that we could look at numbers, string them down forever. But there's something else that needs to be pointed out. In 1990, we had a million 968737 insurance and 655788 pensioners. In 2005, we have a million 498 thousand insurance and a million 80,000 571 pensioners, saying that the number of insurance or jobs decreased by 480,000 in 15 years, and the number of pensioners in that period increased by 425 000 people, and that's actually the point. So how about those higher pensions? With more jobs, with greater economic activity, with higher growth because everyone will probably agree that the best social policy is a full-time policy, that the best retirement policy is full-time full-time full-time. So 40 years of men, i.e. 35 years old woman. In Croatia, I mentioned the average pension for 2005 was 62.37% compared to the average salary. That's about £2600. In Austria, for full-time employment there is 80%, in Belgium full-time pensions are 67% compared to the average salary. Czech Republic 79%, Finland 63%, France 80%, Germany 63%, Hungary as much as 102%, Italy 89, Luxembourg 98, Netherlands 92, Slovenia 82, Spain 97, Great Britain 82%, etc. etc. Once again, I'm going to say, it's not the point that we're going to sell these things back to the sale of property, but it would be far smarter if it were coming back through economic growth. Every pension system we are all aware of keeps jobs and so many of those counties that have less unemployment by not knowing of the number of residents more contributions to the MORH and vice versa – those who have higher average salaries like Zagreb also contribute more to the MORH than others, along with the fact that all state bodies, all banks, etc., all public institutions with their headquarters in the City of Zagreb. For the end, we work or try to attract investment, equalize clearly old and new pensioners. Because these proportions are simply the ones that hurt and actually insult. The number of pensioners in 2004 was 280 000, 742. And now, as some die, others retire. We have a situation in 2005. The new one is 319 thousand, 709 years old. 2006. 352 versus 689. But what's far more important are their average pensions. In 2004, new pensioners had an average pension of 1,000 488 kuna, an old thousand 918. The difference is 430 kuna. In 2005, the new one has a thousand and fifty-six kuna, two thousand first. The difference is 495 kuna. In 2006, 562 kunas, this is what new pensioners have. Old 2 grand 93. The difference is already 531 kuna. This year there will be over 600 kuna. So it's necessary for this one to equalize old and new pensioners to provide about 2 billion kuna. I argue that Croatia can do so without the sale of public systems. But there's a way that the resistance calms down when there's something to privatize you say we'll pay back the debt, and then normally from my parents on, everyone will be clear for it. This end-of-the-end law is good. He's good because he handles those family pensions and these top pensions. There are 43,000 781 people. He needs support. He's welcome. Said Christmas Day came in early. It's just that we're gonna sell when we get these required billions of $400 million? What's going to happen next day? Will it be Croatian waters? Is that going to be the Croatian road? Is that gonna be HEP? And so on and so forth. And that shouldn't happen either. Gentlemen, be careful with that. Debt clearly needs to be returned to the pensioners. But I don't think it should be done in any case by selling family silver and the most vital economic systems of the Republic of Croatia. Because one day he'll come to collect. Like today they come to collect pensioners what they were cut off for if I'm wrong in '93. at the time of Valentiæ's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86790	At 11:56 a.m., it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86791	Mr. President, it's inadmissible that Mr. Cain put one nonsense in my mouth, one senseless claim that I said that pensioners are paying themselves back. That's what I never said. That's what he and Mr. Stazic said. And I'd like if Mr. Cain knew someone who paid himself a debt to introduce me to him, I'd like to meet a man. But I certainly said that pensioners have the right to compensation from the property they themselves created, because we remember who paid and how many HT connections and infrastructures. And secondly, it's inadmissible, although this is an attractive interpretation of statistics, because this is not the topic of the agenda, today we're not discussing the HZMO bulletin, but the interpretation of this statistics I interpret, I'm experiencing by the principle of bikinis. So it reveals what's interesting, but it certainly hides what's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86792	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86793	Yeah, I'm saying nonsense here. I'll just do it again. They're the ones who pay themselves back debt and do it the way...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86794	So wait. A colleague of Caine's. Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86795	...and the logic they've created since '45. '90s. Here. It's the claim they've made since '45. '90s. That's what they come back to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86796	Well, it's okay, you two, do you know that there's some kind of a Rules of Procedure? Do you know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is? Or what? Let's go once, every day you're on, every day you discuss, you say, but you can't correct someone else's opinion. The Honorable representative, Biserka Perman, is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86797	Thank you very much. Namely, here's a colleague of Hrelja's already said what I wanted to fix, but let me repeat that my colleague Cain said that he was just a colleague of Hrelja who said that the pensioners are paying back their debt. That's exactly what my colleague Stazic said. But in the end line, it doesn't matter who said what, it matters that it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86798	So who said he said he said he said he did? HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86799	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when this law was adopted in July 2005, warned that one claim in Article 1 simply was not correct. And I remind you that, at that time in that law, a colleague of Hrelja was also warned about the fact that it was then that the law fully implements the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. A year. And the Croatian Parliament then passed the law in which it was established that we were fully implementing the '98 Constitutional Court's decision. A year. It has been said here today that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has misread and overly interpreted and implemented the law, which would have turned out to be the parliament's decision making and making one decision, and that the state is seducing the same laws and decisions of the Parliament are interpreted differently and implemented differently. That's not new, though. I have already warned of one such case today, but I am not sure that this claim is correct because I also remind Prime Minister Sanader of a representative question on the current morning, and my colleague Stazic also read one reply from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the same question that the users of family pensions that we are currently working on under this 2004 law and 2005 law do not have the right to compensation, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And it is now being established that another 43,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to be resolved by amending the laws in order to fully implement the '98 Constitutional Court's decision. Now, if the 2005 finding is true, then we have fully solved and respected the Constitutional Court's decision, then the question is why we have to cover it by amending the law. However, the amendments to this law and the adoption of this bill do not again make the claim that we will fully implement the Constitutional Court's decision, because I ask what is wrong with the users of minimum pensions and a protective allowance. Whether they will be covered by this law or in a year we will conclude that there is another category that is not covered by this law and that we have not fully implemented the Constitutional Court's decision. Secondly, even after these amendments, these users will not get a solution in the administrative procedure and will not have the right to object. If the right to object had first been accepted and an administrative procedure and administrative solution had been introduced for the first time, it would have been likely that already in the appeal procedure that these 43,000 citizens were not covered by the law. If the possibility of making a complaint was now introduced not only a solution but a solution, they might in time establish that there are still a number of citizens, and these are users of minimum pensions and a protective allowance which is not resolved by this law either. But the partners in power agree that this is the law's proposal to go. Okay. And counterpart Silvano said it has been a year since the political agreement was reached and that only now has this bill come before the Parliament. But it seems to me that a year ago a political agreement was reached that the Croatian Parliament must resolve the status of those we call the old, new pensioners and that it will also come before the Parliament. There are, however, not 43,000 but 350,000 citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who on average have a lower pension of 800,00 kuna. But the three-and-a-half-year political agreement reached in this country within the ruling coalition is that the average pension is 50% of the average salary. But instead of 50% of the average salary, the average pension today is 39.5% if I'm not mistaken, the average salary. So the question is whether, even after this proposal of the law, the bill on the change of the pension increase formula will come and it will be fulfilled, and the political agreement that by lagging out the average pensions in which around the same amount of funding is being accumulated, one war on debt from the same opportunity, we are not really in a situation where the reduced pension increases actually pay back the debt that we are talking about today. And finally, we will vote in favour of this proposed law because of these 43,000 people who have not so far had the right to do so, I hope that they will have it and I want to believe that this political agreement of the year will also be realised before this Assembly, perhaps even at this session, through the addition of the agenda, a bill that will allow new pensioners to be leveled with the pension rights of those who have retired until 31 December 98. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86800	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86801	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. How many new funds have been established in Croatia lately and how empty they are or if they are not empty, quickly and ruthlessly spends what is in them, leaks, disappears, emptys, but is at the bottom. These public funds or state funds in which we pour budget funds or funds that are publicly good citizens of this country are actually funds that are more like empty hanged and torn bags into an old mill than some good measure and well-filled bags from which to be alimentated, from which to be paid, from which it would be possible to make up for and compensate Croatian citizens on different grounds. That's right with this Retirement Fund. The fact is that we today and I am proud to sit in the Parliament today, who is trying to pay back the debt of pensioners, depriving those people who have entrusted us with the fact that they have created the public welfare of this state, but on the other hand we should say that this redistributive ex post justice, that compensation could at all come to the opportunity for justice to be achieved and that justice is actually distributed in some way, and we are not sure with this proposal what the Lesar was talking about, that we will not be able to rejuvenate all and that there will be again some categories of pensioners who will also require their rights and if we are already going to go to such a form of compensation, if we are already expanding the circle of users, then I think that it would be okay and I think that we as Parliamentarians, then and then and the Croatian public, the main pensioners have the right to know very clearly and I think that the representatives of the Government should say that they are all concerned. Of course, there is also a question of what is the difference between old and new pensioners because this is also a question of the principle of redistributive justice, which is also a question of the division of public goods according to the principle of investment. So that's the question we're going to have to deal with. It's also the trauma that's waiting for us, that's going to burden us, and it might be better in some way if, in parallel with these supplements, we've found ways, we've suggested, we've come up with some models that we're going to correct these injustices. This is what it seems like to you that we are reacting on a campaign basis, reacting from time to time, reacting to the fact that we have not completed certain processes, that we are in a jam because we have realized that some users or whole categories of users have not been included, and in fact, the question is whether we have any view of this social justice, or subsequent divisions according to the principle of justice. We as the Croatian Parliament and MPs should certainly have this, therefore we exist as a legislative and representative body, and if we cannot provide or can't guarantee the citizens, mostly the pensioners that we will establish this redistributive subsequent justice, then I think that we ourselves, and then of course we deceive and deceive the citizens. What's particularly bad is that I break up or finish this little artificial debate about who's actually paying off the debt. Of course the debt is paid back by the pensioners themselves and the debt is paid back by the citizens of this country. The citizens of this country pay back their debt, damage the citizens of this country. Well, I guess someone else isn't going to hurt our pensioners, our grandparents, the ones who taught us the first stories, prayers, conversations, that advised us, that might have raised us up to our feet. Who's supposed to pay them back? Europe? The world? Someone else behind the new state? Of course, we will repay their debts and, of course, will pay back the most in fact by selling out what they created. What is worse is the fact that when we look at the categories of citizens who will participate in this, in this debt return, I am most concerned about the fact that in the total mass of the unemployed today about 30% of the young people or those who are statistically guided as young people are. Therefore, we do not actually have that essential core of employment force that can repay debt, which can create new goods, as on the other hand is almost 1:1 the ratio of pensioners and employees, which means again, is not exactly 1:1, but is not much smaller or much larger. So again we come to the fact that we don't have those healthy substances that can repay these debts, and that's the real question that we have to deal with, and that's why we'd be happier if together with this Pension Fund we had not the funds that are like various hanging bags, but the funds from which we're actually going to be able to pay back the damages or we're going to be able to make up for what they've lost by injustice, which they haven't been paid off, and I'm afraid we don't have, unfortunately, those funds. Of course, as a party, we will support the bill because we are correcting a part of the injustice, but once again I warn all of us may not have corrected the injustice to the end, and an injustice that is not corrected to the end can never be justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86802	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately note that I support the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal on the Pension Fund with the Final Proposal of the Law because I think it is important for this category of pensioners who, some say later discovered, and I would say in a regular procedure established some rights and others and that these amendments and additions of the Law are trying to be resolved. So these two groups are retired. So, it's not even about 10 percent increased that mass that already exists from 426 thousand pensioners, so now another 43,000 and 781 pensioners are being compensated. However, this whole debate in some way reminds me of one false basis when it comes to the Pension Fund and the money paid for the existing pensioners. Especially fellow Caine keeps mentioning some kind of '45 cash. By the '90s, it turns out that the Croatian state inherited some kind of treasure a lot of money from which someone took the money and gave it to defend the state, which is not true at all. It is only true that the existing pensioners are paid out of contributions and other sources that the current year budget gives, from the current month. Therefore, there are no reserves and there are no reserves. There's going to be some kind of reserve and some kind of enrichment in this, through the work of these funds that have just been established and that will somehow try to enrich the funds for those who signed in. However, it is simply a matter of working actively to support pensioners, and it is so everywhere in the world. Therefore, telling stories about some inherited masses of money, I would remind my colleague Caina that among the teams who use such a pension there is still a large number of those who do not know by what criteria, there are some over 60,000 NOB fighters, an amazing number for this period, and that should be examined for how they came into the Pension Fund, if we are already going to exorcise every detail in these pensioners' problems. Therefore, this amendment and the supplement is because this, two categories of pensioners are found to be in need of entry into that category that is being compensated, and in addition, it has been used to improve the law itself which was adopted in 2005 and to be more precise, to cut deadlines and to sort of supplement this existing law with better solutions and therefore I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86804	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86805	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. Namely, I owe one, one comment on my fellow Stazic's claims. I said that all governments damaged the pensioners, but I thought, after that, I also said that every government tried to solve as little money as possible by thinking about the pensioners all the time. This was corrected by the incorrect quote Mr. Stazic and said that only one government has damaged the pensioners and that they are correcting everything later. I would, however, spread out and even that guilt a little, because some governments have done some damage by doing it, and some have done harm by inaction. For what? Because I think they're also in 1998 and before that since '95. Furthermore, the Retired Associations and the Croatian Party of Retired People who were not then a parliamentary party spoke of the need for individual access to debt resolution. And that it is necessary to carry out the calculation of that debt, as colloktimally called or compensation under the Constitutional Court's decision, in order to bring this process to an end. That's the point. Of course, it is attractive in front of the Croatian public in this High House to make a claim or to say that I called it nonsense, that someone is paying back his debt. At a certain point, at a certain point in time, as the Constitutional Court established its decision, it damaged the pensioners and received the same commitment to pay them in accordance with economic opportunities. And it is decided, or it truly stands in the Constitutional Court's decision. And there's every maneuvering space narrowed down to us. So all the claims that someone's coming back doesn't stand. But the state has to pay back the debt. But from what? Either from current budget revenues or from their assets. There's no third way. ... There is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's forget it, let's forgive it. It's not working. Because we're getting into individual rights. And this process is an attempt and, therefore, the realization of what is near the end, so this is the final part of the realization of the pension scheme. I really hope there's not gonna be another category that's damaged and the state hasn't damaged it. Of course, all depending on the political position, opposition or positions we can admire here and we can spread the story to new pensioners and we can talk about statistics. But today we're solving a particular problem. And I think that should be the end of the compensation for 43,000 family or the highest and I would like to underline the highest pensions. These are pensions from the labour Corps, because I've heard a lot of reactions that we want to pay back to those who have privileged pensions. They're not in that circle. The Croatian public should also know that these are the most working pensions that are limited to the highest amount of payment during the given periods of the Croatian state. So, once again, we'd like to be as clear and transparent as possible. My remarks were made in front of the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives' Club that too much time had been spent standing. That this legislative infrastructure for the realisation of the compensation of these 43,000 pensioners should have happened earlier. But these are things that I personally and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired People can't influence and, that's how it is now. And I should say, this law is passed. This law, which will be supported by the Croatian Party of Retired Persons and set out in realisation. By personally warning citizens that the deadlines in which they should be decided are very short, that they should be very careful to approach their tasks, therefore, to receive notice and decide which model of compensation they want to choose. And the faster they have to send it to the HPB Invest address to establish a register of new fund members within very short periods. With that speed, I disagree and should not have come to this, but of course we will support this law and in any case follow its realisation in public or make recommendations to all citizens, especially future members of the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86806	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, to support such a bill on amendments and additions to the Pension Fund Act, which will finally be compensated by the users of family and highest pensions. However, perhaps only very short. It's been a long journey, and it's been a pain in the ass ever since the beginning of recognition that debt exists. Well, here it is, until today. With some larger or smaller intervals. Let me remind you. Our colleague Stazic said something about it on behalf of the SDP club. The SDP has been saying from the beginning that, in this intensity, that the pensioners are completely compensated, that the family pensioners have just been excluded. We have already seen how the application of the Retirement Fund Act works. So just because the government somehow avoided, denied, were not clear positions and views of the government. Well, that's why our SDP parliamentary representative, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, asked the government that question. And the government matches February 27th, 2006. And the government is talking. The Government of the Republic of Croatia draws attention to the exclusion of family pension beneficiaries who made pensions after 1 January '99. Therefore, according to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, it does not constitute anything special in relation to the users of other pensions, since all pensioners who left their pensions after 1 January of '99. the years excluded from the right to repay or repay the debt, given that the debt did not even arise. Here, that's what the government says dead cold on February 27th, 2006. Today we have something different, not different than 180 degrees, the different government claims. And it proposes exactly in accordance with its own obligation and obligations, which occurred long before, but confirmed by the Constitutional Court by its own decision, that these users, of course, too, have the right to compensation. But, well, thank God we're in the election year. And where luck comes from, in this way how it's ruled out that then elections are every year. Then perhaps many questions would be addressed at a better pace. But it's unfortunate that we have to conclude things that way. However, since something that was finally well done, perhaps we are not going back to those circumstances that he even said, and I do not know anything about his fellow Hebrang when he spoke about the circumstances when he created this debt, so despite the Constitutional Court's saying that it was against constitutional behaviour, he justifies such behaviour and yet quite unscheduledly admits that 10% of the funds that were taken from the pensioners were used for the right purposes, therefore in the defense of the country. We thought that at least 100% was invested in how it was always claimed. True, now that these jewels were found claims that it was only 10%. Therefore, with regard to these circumstances, many of these circumstances have been traumatized by Croatian citizens as a whole and such circumstances and today have an epilogue on our judicial institutions and some, unfortunately, in front of international institutions. So it is certainly to welcome this way of solution but it is not burning to repeat what we all at the SDP Club pointed out when we also passed the Retirement Fund Act, so that the pensioners themselves receive almost some kind of notice of ordinary piece of paper where they cannot even verify in any way or can not use the legal way of suing because such a single notice is not an administrative act. Since many users do not give up on the very facts because they feel that they are damaged, that they have the right to return or have the right to return to a larger extent, in a larger proportion then retirement or therefore begin their difficult legal battle, so that some conclusions are made just so that no solution can be made so that these users can somehow get involved in the legal course and can then use those legal medicines to result in a fair compensation based on existing laws and here I hope also by the basis of such an amended law. Therefore, the fact that certain users are informed as much as they have received and as Col. Stazic said most often is the number of zeros and it is justified that they have therefore received some amounts during the past period which, as a result, do not have any more debt to the State or state towards them. So let's not forget that the amount exactly that is here I don't know why he's been denied and in our past debates for the past year, two days when we would be having these problems, so during the coalition government, we're returning around 20 billion kuna and plus 100 kuna that our pensioners received every month. And the debate about it is good for this justice to be corrected and justice to be served. Yet it will be only partial justice because those who are weakest with women and children in our system are seeking it because it is already known so when they seek justice, then here we see that it has been slow and will not be complete in all things. But when they're exhausted, they... on their backs then it's fast, efficient to the limit of conductable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here I am to finish and not to be longer. We welcome the adoption of this law and payment as soon as possible, so this is the time to remember where our pensioners are now. And the real question of the pensioners today is not just a question of debt recovery, then it has now become the least of the issues of debt repayment. It is primarily a matter of dramatic pension decline, average pensions relative to average salaries. Col. Hebrang said that at the time of the war it was terrible, that it was 45%, so it was the minimum one where they couldn't let the non-hazarding standard of pensioners fall below that ratio. Today it stands at 39%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86808	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86809	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's absolutely incorrect that the coalition government returned 20 billion kuna to the pensioners because the pensioners were getting some change that they didn't even notice. They thought it wasn't a pension I didn't know increased by 0.001%. So take a look at it, take a little study of it. ... I followed, I watched. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Furthermore, the incorrect assumption is that this government is changing 180 degrees, claims one, claims the other. This government respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court and thus behaves unlike your Government which neither coalition agreements nor agreements with, let's say, officials respected,... and similar, and unfortunately everything comes at the checkout now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86810	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86811	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government of Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, whenever we come up with a serious problem that needs to be discussed and passed certain legal solutions, then all our discussions come down to who did what, who damaged whom, who defiled whom, etc. However, I am pleased that this huge debt recovery problem is finally being resolved by the pensioners and the start of this resolution seems to have started in 1998, as colleagues and colleagues have already said during the debate today. However, if they are, every law has shortcomings and so does this law, and these amendments of the law have their drawbacks. However, if those who will be users who will in some way provide at least part of the refund of funds for which they have been abolished in one period, if they are satisfied, if they are satisfied with the associations that participated and have agreed in the end to the Government before parliament with such a law, then surely we, as representatives, must be satisfied, accept such a law and thus end this problem. I would like to warn again that we have a new problem that will be long-term, which is the consequence of reforming the pension system rather than disrupting the reform of the pension system, we need to find a solution. So since 1999, we've been saying it's been eight years since we've seen the problem so-called. New pensioners. It deepens these differences in pensioners' incomes by 1999 and after 1999 are becoming increasingly drastic and we must not close our eyes before that and we must put it on the agenda. Whether it will be, whether it will be done by the Government in this election year or will be done by a government after the election, but any delay in resolving this problem will lead to such drastic problems and drastic debates as the repayment of the pensioner's debt. We warned when the Retirement Fund Act was passed on certain problems that would arise. So you don't get solutions, there's calculation, individual calculation, but you don't get solutions. There's a reckoning. That reckoning most people or, no, actually not most. No one understands. No one can control it from those who get it. The people who got the zero count, some complained, so they got some funds in the recalculation, and they're very happy. Others also complained, didn't win, got the same reckoning. Of course they're unhappy. But none of them got to tell a formula like that how it counted. But I'm saying, if most people are satisfied, if a large number of people have accepted such a solution to this problem, then we must be satisfied too. A large number of pensioners agreed to the so-called. Half payout, so in two years where they get only half the payout. It seems to me that even here in reason it says that some average return per pensioner is 26,000 kuna. So most of them got far less than that, especially those who agreed to a faster payment. And it's a good thing that, if we've solved almost 450 thousand people in such a way, we've decided to solve these just under 44 thousand pensioners and finally put an end to this problem. And in the end, I would still like to look back on Mr Hebrang's presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club because it shouldn't because especially the club whose government proposes such a law should not go in history and on, and in some ways redesign it. Namely, colleague Hebrang said that no one had made a debt. These are circumstances, aggression, war and so on. A man can agree with that. But it is true that the then government in such a difficult war situation did not make sure that the cost of war was evenly distributed. And as far as this pensioner population is concerned, she didn't even bother to amend the existing Pension Insurance Act, but she settled it with a regulation. And now it's fortunate for the pensioners that she's dealt with it in a regulation. Because if she had changed the law, the Constitutional Court wouldn't have the grounds to settle debt returns. So one total ignoring. When HDZ had a two-thirds majority in parliament, it was not necessary to change the law. It's fortunate that that's how it happened for this population, which is, she'll finally get some money and get it. And it's finally not pre-election law. I'm not getting into that at all. The fact is, we're only a few months ahead of the election. The fact is that just a year and two months ago, the answer to my representative's question is this at the end: "The opinion cited is based on the provisions of the applicable Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, and if that law does not cover all aspects of the compensation, this can only be the subject of discussion on the possible amendment and addition of the law, and cannot be the subject of interpretation of the applicable law." To me, that argument was logical, good, and I expected the government to come out with an amendment to the law. For such a small change of law because the law could essentially be applied to these 40s and slightly less than 44 thousand pensioners. So maybe it only took a few days or a month for the government to prepare these changes to the law and they could be realised in 2006 and already one or two wars these people could win back. The fact is that we are ahead of the election, and even these 44 thousand people are potential voters in the next election. To repeat, I think it's a good thing that this amendment of the law came. It's good to bring it and we will, and our club and I will vote for it personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86812	Replicated representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86813	Well, fellow Zgrebec, I share the pleasure of passing this law and really correcting an injustice. But in that pleasure, I have one disorder of complete satisfaction, and that is discontent because this problem should not have occurred. Speaking on behalf of the club when we discussed the law two years ago we were just pointing to this need. So that these people also get compensation, however, of course that was when the government categorically refused and through its parliamentary majority it passed the law, or this Parliament voted the law as it is. And there's a tragedy because these people have really been able to win two wars for two years, which would make life easier anyway, and that's a reflection of that government's insensitivity. Just because the government, I don't know for what reasons, I don't know why, probably for pure stubbornness, doesn't want to look the truth in the eye. That's why we have the problem of new pensioners now. So just remember that the Croatian Peasant Party Club has proposed a law to address the issue of new pensioners. Later, the SDP Club proposed such a law to address the pensioner's problem. In a written response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have received the answer that this problem does not exist, that this problem cannot be solved. So that wasn't said. It was said in writing. There's no problem and there's no need to solve it. Only later under public pressure has the prime minister changed his mind and therefore every time we discuss and discuss in this House the problem of pensioners we must stress the question of new pensioners because because of the incomprehensible exclusiveness of the government in a year two, the government no matter what political options it will have to address the problem. And this resolution will be as difficult as resolving the issue of debt repayment to pensioners. Of course, and then it'll become space. The space of politics, however, does not deserve politicizing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86814	The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86815	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. He says in the final part of his replica, counterpart Lalic, that this may not deserve a political dimension. But this question has a political, moral, legal, economic, social and every other dimension. This is, but it shouldn't have been brought into that, I couldn't agree more. Dear colleagues and colleagues have been in this House since '93, since October '93. when the decision has reduced the basis for the calculation of pensions against the law and we are counter-constitutionally calling for these injustices to be rectified. I must say, I completely disagree, that this is how we deal with this issue and that, in fact, only under the coercion of the Constitutional Court decision do we begin to correct it, and on the drop of injustice against the pensioners. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, we were told by those at the time when they told us there was no debt to the pensioners, when they told us we didn't understand the need. We have to be or we could give them the satisfaction today and for the satisfaction that we're right. But I must tell you, I personally feel bitterness and deep disappointment because we have made such an intergenerational conflict between us as children and our parents who are retired. Because colleagues and colleagues, we wanted to or didn't want to justify it with higher goals than the weapons supply business, for defending the Homeland. We also justified spending money on sold apartments for such purposes. We've also justified spending money on conversion and privatisation, and now they're slowly going out first where these money ends, and the second thing is that these total funds haven't been spent so much but far for other purposes, and not for those of which, for higher goals, they've been trying to say about it. And as this reflected, especially after knowing that the Constitutional Court has found that these pensioners, they as individuals, have been deprived of their psycho-physical health. If you want to get into their material position, it's pretty hard to imagine, unfortunately, some of them can't tell us anymore because they left this world without waiting for the injustices they've been wronged. I must say, respected colleagues and colleagues, quite clearly and fully responsible for this law, we are not entirely correcting the injustice. We're just making another step in that segment with this law. We now finally include the users of the highest pensions and the users of family pensions. What about the new pensioners? Now for these family pensioners and the highest pensions until yesterday, we said they had no right to do so because they were not covered by the law. You're not going to tell us respected colleagues and colleagues that this procedure has been legally implemented and related to new and old pensioners, so if they're in an unfair position, then they're due to a legal solution. So I ask the question of our dear fellow Members do we have the right to be aware that when a law is passed which is obviously unfair, which causes injustice in relation to those to which it applies, to our citizens, when they are in the same material and real social status that they are actually so caused by an injustice that we do not correct it. And we have the fact that under the same age of insurance, under the same amount of contributions to pension insurance, our pensioners, new categories and 30% have less pensions than the old pensioners who went into retirement in 1.1.1999. Unfortunately, we have a situation where we constantly lose average pensions relative to the average salary. Now we've heard that it's already reached 39% somewhere, etc. And when you only take this category of new pensioners, then it's underneath it. Now the question is, what is our responsibility because of such issues and situations? Our responsibility must be linked to correcting unfair laws in accordance with our Constitution and in accordance with the state of social justice that we have prescribed. And not only prescribed, but because we want to build such a society. We need to open up the possibility that people who have left their past generational work behind them for generations, so to us and we will ensure to the next that they can actually live up to their age, and if they can't bear the burden of social situation and reality equally, we bear the same thing. It cannot be that salary growth is much higher than pension growth and that pension growth does not follow wage growth in the Republic of Croatia. We have to ask a question if we treat generations like this leaving how will generations that come after us treat us? Dear colleagues and colleagues, which is why I claim that this issue is not only legal, it is not just political, it is not just economic. It is both legal and economic and social and moral and everyone else and finally we have to talk about these things that one of the highest goals is to ensure, in accordance with the law, social justice and equal carrying of burdens, social burdens in social crisis situations for the state. And of course, we must also ensure that our obligations are proportionate to our rights. It's unacceptable, it's unacceptable to have a situation like this here and in situations like this and things. And one more thing. It is said here again that the right will begin to come true starting from half of 2007 when these categories change. By which right you establish what has been denied, We set a time limit for it to begin to come true. So who are we? So if we have already established, if the court has found that we have been suspended, we need to determine the amount of suspension and try to at least ensure that each of these categories of pensioners that he suffered can immediately be realised, of course in accordance with the law they all agreed to and even if he accepts 50% immediately, then fine less. But why since mid-2007? I don't get it. Is that an injustice? Is that a shame or isn't it? And the last thing. What I would particularly like to say is not a good thing to keep saying is that there is no or no opportunity between this and the first thing that was not long, so let's say afterwards there was no obligation to family pensioners or I don't know pensioners with higher payments or higher pensions, and then after that we talked about no funds, so now we're thinking about having a special fund from which we're going to provide those funds, etc. In fact, from part of what these same people have Generationly left us through conversion or privatisation, we would provide the means to pay for it. It's not good to talk like that. This is a question that the social community, or state, has to do with a particular category of our population. From which means this will be provided, they should not be concerned and the burden of moral responsibility for the state of society should not be transferred to them because they seek what the court has found to be theirs. I think the time has come for us to talk clearly and openly about it because there's no need to stall and re-emerge tomorrow with some new deal that we've achieved as a means of correcting the injustice that seems to be happening to the new pensioners. No deal. We have a constitutional, legal and any other formal legal obligation, but before that, it calls out the principle of justice and equality of every citizen for equal payment, for equal years of internship that he can and should have equal compensation, or equal retirement when he goes into old age, and if we have passed the Pension Insurance Act that is unfair in that segment, regardless of what we have started reform, we will correct the injustices and we will go further into reform, otherwise this reform will never end until the end, without asking the question of injustice and correcting the injustice that has been done according to certain categories of pensioners, or insurance workers. Because of all this, I support this law because it is a step further, but I am expressing my indignation again why we go step by step instead of solving this issue at least on the principle of justice and legality that people know what they belong to, and then let's talk about material opportunities when and at what rate we will pay that part of the funds that are theirs and that we have to pay them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86816	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86817	Well, colleague Arlovic, it's absolutely a question, this problem has a political dimension, and when I was talking about it, I was actually talking about that this problem can't become a subject of politics, you know, but if we go chronologically to follow this problem, so we're going from those moments when it's said there's no debt, until the moment we've passed the law, and it's been defending hands and feet that this category of people is being thrown out of compensation, then even when today a law that will only be applied in 2007 is certainly reaching the impression and remains a bitter taste in the mouth that it's politics. Well, politics is also when an increase in pensions is promised in relation to the average salary paid, and instead of that increase of 30.12.2003, the average pension was 44.71% compared to the average salary paid, and today the average is 39%. Then it is politics when someone promises it and instead of increasing pensions we have a pension drop relative to the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, I was talking about the need to solve the problem, but when this problem is seen, when it is clear that the problem has arisen, and not to deal with politics for political purposes to solve this problem, then when some in this problem are expected to see the problem of this segment of people who do not know what art is when they can live with 39% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86818	Replica, Your Honor. Is there no answer? You're confusing me. Replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86819	I think that when my colleague Arlovic first started his debate, he really said that this is a question both morally and socially, a question of a couple of excellencies, and it really is. But also that of some kind, of some absolute justice and of the satisfaction of justice that all that was taken away by the pensioners is returned to the illusion. This return is at the level of symbolism, but the pensioners, i.e. it was already a step and a very difficult road to admit at all that the pensioners had stolen, because it seemed at a time when this money was taken from the pensioners, when they were shot, many were drilling into their chests to be of high interest. The defence of the country was our not primary task, but the question of survival, but the question of what was with many money, not only of this money, it was a forbidden question, and therefore, my colleague Arlovic is right when he says exactly when it comes to, or when someone is overly busing into some lofty interests, then history has shown that his interests are often very, very terrestrial. Here's yesterday, but we can't learn from that kind of behavior. The day before yesterday and three days ago, we had one official, but from the sports sphere that it is against Croatia, that the traitor is who is against the championship. Today it's said, so when the facts indicate something else or reality or we call them circumstances, then it's said there, and it's better that it didn't happen. Therefore, I think the question is how did counterpart Arlovic say the issue of justice, the question of morality, the economic question, but there is no talk of any absolute justice or of the repayment of debt in the full amount in which they are damaged, and also what is most important here when it comes to the issues of pensioners, the biggest problem is that their current pensions amount to barely poor 39% compared to any small salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86820	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86821	Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. Here, let me refer to the adoption of the Retirement Fund Act, i.e. about his supplements that I support, of course. I also ask the question why is this problem not solved in the very adoption of this Law, but only today? What all of us should do today may be to send public thanks and to all the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, which is so dignitously, so do all the things that have been going on all these years behind us, including, therefore, what they have been so proudly reacting to all these years and in this Croatian Parliament, so, even on a political scene where they have often been only a coin for the promotion, the collection of some cheap political points, and beyond that perhaps the right to wish that their problem should be solved entirely the way it should be. . /. So today we solve just a small part of this problem, and actually the main problem is the question of the height of our pensions, i.e. The problem is that pensions have actually become a social category today. And so the height of those pensions today is enough just for some mere survival from month to month. That's what the information on the height of our pensions tells us, about the amount of pensions of our pensioners. Not to repeat everything that was said today. But I think it's interesting to repeat the fact that pensions have fallen deep into a poverty zone whose limit is, for example, the border. According to the World Bank, it is 214 euros i.e. Something more than a thousand and 500 kuna. And we can say that in the Republic of Croatia such pension i.e. A pension of up to 500 kuna receives more than 330 thousand pensioners. That the pension of up to 2 thousand kuna receives more than half of the total number of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, more than 680 thousand. Family pension is mentioned here today, it's actually an average and far smaller, so that all those recipients of the family pension are actually in that poverty line. Other evidence that tells us that pensions are especially family, is a social category, is one scientific paper by Mr. Zoran Sucura from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. His study work entitled "Poverty and Social Transfers in Croatia", he mentioned among the risk groups just older people and pensioners. Also in social transfers, it lists old and family pensions as they actually are, as I've already said. And talks about the efficiency of the Croatian transfer system. According to this assessment, the Republic of Croatia falls within the circle of countries with the least effective age and family pensions. So, at least they are influencing that this level of poverty could be reduced. And they can also mention regional diversity in the Republic of Croatia. So there are certain regions that are, according to that kind of data, we could say in the depression ahead of that. below that average pension in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I can mention my Međimurje County, which on 31 December 2006, had as many as 21 thousand and 044 pensioners. And in Međimurje County, just over 22,000 employees. So we see what impact the social picture has on the pensioners in Međimurje. Of which 11 thousand 148 are users of retirement, 5 thousand 165 are users of disability pensions, and 4 thousand 731 are users of family pensions, with an average pension of EUR 377. The average family pension in the Republic of Croatia is a thousand 705 kuna. So we see that those who get a family pension in Međimurje County are in an even worse situation than those who have a much higher county. All this affects that the average of all pensions in Međimurje County is a thousand 557 kuna. So, more or less almost all the pensioners in Međimurje County are moving near the border of this poverty. Again, to repeat that the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is 1,000 974 kuna, which is 20% higher than that in Međimurje. What was given to do with these pensions, if we compare the data that the union basket, the value of the union cart for March was 5 thousand 684 kuna. So we see that it's very, very hard to survive the month of our pensioners. I think we should move in that direction all our moves. Here, this power is at the end of our term, but I think we all need to pay attention to this problem together, and that we should all be obliged to put a solution to the pensioner's problem in our pre-election programmes first or second place. But to make it a quality and long-term solution. A quality and long-term solution is also the only economic growth and employment. With current economic growth below 5%, we certainly can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86822	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a five-minute debate, the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86823	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We're using these five minutes to actually conduct part of the debate under this law. If you'd like to propose, appeal, offer, let's finally close the pages of this injustice. Let's not correct the obvious injustices against our older citizens, against our parents. And this amendment and the addition of the Pension Fund Act now included two additional categories of pensioners. Those who have family pensions, those who have the highest pension, to be granted what the Constitutional Court has established for them. So let's not admit it to anything, but actually, this law requires us to ensure, as explained and said, technical measures for the exercise of this right. But it's sad that we would have to pass this law, so that after two, three months of the last of them, we would have come to the fact that it belongs to them, too, because before that, it was claimed by the government that it didn't belong to them. Second, what we would like to say clearly and unequivocally. The injustice between the new and the old pensioners cry out to heaven. Inadmissible to increase from day to day the number of new pensioners who, from day to day, relative to pension for the same year of internship, the same contributions they paid, are increasingly lagging behind compared to the old pensioners. This injustice needs immediate correction, a law to be prepared. And it can't be a law that provides one-time funding because it's not a one-time problem. It must be a law that will make us aware that the participation of the state budget in the pension fund to resolve this injustice will increase. Fourthly, we insist that we agree on a social level that needs to be passed. To what level it is possible to allow the average pension to fall from the average salary without jeopardizing the existential needs of our pensioners and not turning them from decent people to people and the category of poverty. I think we need to talk about this openly, and we need to legalize this issue. There are many countries in Europe and in a world where there is no idea that such pensions fall to this level or percentage that we have in relation to the average wage. After all, we must meet the requirements and principles of our constitutional and legal order, we must comply with the principles of social justice and justice in society if we are to ensure that finally after here since '93. By 2007 there is 14 years of water running to the Sava that this injustice against the existing categories is not corrected. Let's not let so much water flow away without the new injustices that arise from day to day, stemming from the system that we have legalized yes. ... Yeah, not you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You, you passed the law of fellow Pasecky in '99. The years of retirement insurance that you managed to do. You've overvoted it. Therefore, let the esteemed colleagues have a nice sit-down here, no matter who the party or political option belongs to. I think whoever wants to seriously talk that all parties can reach an agreement that it is necessary in society to have prosperity, progress and that it could be built in the future at all, ensure a minimum of social justice. Social justice calls for these questions to be corrected and resolved in favour of both the interests and the social community, especially in favour of those who have been denied by unfair solutions and unfair law enforcement, these are our pensioners. Thank you very much. We will also support this part of correcting injustice but we ask that injustice be put on the agenda as a whole and definitely correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86824	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86825	We're going to vote on the debated points. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Retirement Fund Act. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU. State Secretary Vera Babic. Please be clear, two amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86826	The amendment to Article 3, Mr. President, cannot be accepted by the Government. It is, in fact, the fact that under the Pension Fund Act, the Mirovinski Institute is not in direct obligation towards pensioners or in the application of the Pension Fund Act, there is no administrative procedure and this amendment cannot be incorporated into the law. It is a mandatory legal relationship between society and members of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86827	Mr Silvano Hrelja's representative on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86828	Unfortunately, they cannot accept the government's argument because the previous practice was that users or members of the pension fund directly sent their objections to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and without having written it in the Pension Fund Act. This puts the second group, so the new members of the pension fund in a different legal position. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86829	Thank you. Please, let's get involved, we need to vote. The result? For 22, 3 abstentions, 58 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86830	In Article 4, Mr. President, the Government also cannot accept the amendment. We hold, contrary to the position of the amendment promoters, that by adopting the amendments, the current pensioners who have been compensated have been put in a more unfavourable position in view of the time of the beginning and, in addition to the content of the amendments mentioned in their legal nature, are neither the matter of the law nor the statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86831	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86832	Dear Secretary of State, your position is now voiced with a derogation from the views that government officials have made publicly towards Croatian citizens that the subsequent members of the fund will be able to capture the rate of payoffs with those who have become so on the first occasion. Therefore, I am sorry, it is not true that this substance cannot be subject to or subject to the contents of the Pension Fund Act, simply this qualification does not stand because we have just added payment deadlines for variant A, so it would not be inappropriate to install fixed payment deadlines according to variant B. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86833	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 22 for, 2 abstentions, 59 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 80 votes in favour and five abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86834	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the law on the completion of the Insurance Statutory Act with increased duration, second reading, P.Z. No. 550 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86835	Mr. Vice President, very briefly since it's a second reading. I only remind this House that it is about a bill that does not differ in content from the text of the proposal in the first reading. Therefore, it is proposed to establish, by supplementing the applicable law, an insurance hold with an increased duration at the ship's working position of the machinery, a maritime shipbuilding, in such a way that, every twelve months, they are accounted for as a 14-month period of insurance. Since it is a matter of workers working in places where there are harmful influences despite the application of general and special protection by adopting this proposed law, we hold that there is a prerequisite to preserve both health and work capacity which will be reflected in the insurance internship with an increased duration, of course, and to reduce the age limit for the exercise of pension rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86836	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86837	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to commend that this initiative solves one obvious 1999 mistake when this shipbuilding job lost its insurance standing with an increase in duration and then passing laws. However, of course we will vote for this law. However, we warn of one lack of this law, which is that it essentially refers only to the Shipyard Split because only the Shipyard Split has a working place of machinery on board and this working place machinemounter on board is not intended for the national classification of occupation. Therefore, the same jobs that exist at the Shipyard "May 3", in the Brodyard "Olinik", in the Brodyard "Kljeljevica" and in other shipyards that do the same jobs under a different name. The note bene is also in the national classification, which is a ship mechanic and a ship's motorist on board the ship's hull. Thus, they will not receive an unfettered work experience, as we call it, or an insurance internship with an increase in duration. Therefore, we have put in place an amendment that amends this injustice in some way and the amendment would read that the text of point 11 is changed and it reads as follows: "The jobs of a ship mechanic, a shipowner, a motorist on a ship's hull and a machine gunman on board" and without the need for the subsequent procedure of this shipbuilding site to prove the justification for the introduction of an unfettered internship in those workplaces because it appears to be a mistake and abolished, so by copying the law and abolished in 1999 when the law was taken from the legislation of the former SFRY. Let me read it Decedated as it stands. "In "The People's Journal" No. 71 of 8 July 1999, the Law on the Insurance Statutory with an increased duration, published in the "National Journal" of SRH No. 52/80, was published.". With all the jobs as until then except for the ship's mechanic. No requirements from Croatian shipbuilding for the abolition of the increased internship for the workplace were ever made, nor were there any other institutions in this country. We believe that the ship’s motorist is probably left out by mistake in copying what is even more convincing of us and the error in the last sentence of Section 9. It says: "Every 12 months spent in jobs below 2 to 5 accounts an insurance internship as fourteen months." and was to stand every 12 months in these places under 6 to 10, which is now to be corrected in the amendments and additions to this Law. It's a 14-month security rating. After that, all ship mechanics from 15.7.1999 were closed or suspended. We believe that the request of the Independent Union of Brodosplit Shipyard is d.o.o. Because he is the initiator on the basis of which these amendments to the law were certainly justified, although we do say that complete processing was not necessary but only needed to correct the error committed. Even less justified is the request of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Pension Disability Insurance Authority. The Department for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which shall provide applicants with an application for the establishment of an increase in the duration of work at work, shall be a ship mechanic and a motorman on the delivery of a new professional documentation to carry out the further procedure as if it were first to appear. And basically, by 1999, he was perfectly normal in our legislation. Labour technology has not changed significantly since 1980, and there have been no significant problems in the way and procedure of ship mechanics' work as they were called in a particular shipyard. In the national classification of occupation published in National No. 111 of August 19, 1998, under the 723, the name of ship's machinery mechanics and ship's machinery mechanics has been made known and is not known in the national classification. Compared to the work of ship mechanics in other shipyards with the work of machinery, it can be determined that they are the same and that it is the same job as the 1980 law correctly and recognised. Therefore, there is no need to apply for a new application for the recognition of internships with an increased duration for a ship mechanic, but it should only be activated because it has never been abolished by mistake, and here I am using the word that he said, and the esteemed colleague Hebrang has already fallen out of the law in 1999. Although it's not, it's not the right word. We suggest that the legal correct the mistake and return the machine gunman, the ship mechanic and the ship's motorist to the 1999 law where he was supposed to be. This would solve dilemmas about the most correct name and correct injustices because ship mechanics work in the same conditions as shipbuildings, shipbuildings and foundries, welders, shipmounters, ship-skillers, gas cutters and rails that have never been disputed. And we gave this bill and one proposal, a proposal for a conclusion that reads, just for the sake of our knowledge, that we know how much the employer's special contribution is worth for an internship with an increased duration. The conclusion is this: the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to submit within 90 days to the Croatian Assembly a report on the number of pensioners and insurance undertakings subject to the provisions of the Retirement Act with an increased duration and the most precise information on how specific contributions of employers cover pension expenditures to cover pension rights of pensioners based on periods of insurance with increased duration. We in Croatia have appreciated that we need to know what our entry is, and which is coming out of the pension system because we know well that some of our social burdens have gone into the pension system. For example, in the lowest pensions, then we have this honored internship and other structures of pensioners, and I think this would be a contribution to clearing up or creating clean, cleaner images of the entry and exit of the pension system. And especially because I was told on the Committee that there would be no higher costs for introducing this category. Of course, the reintroduction of this category of occupation or job into an increase-sustaining insurance system. Here's our contribution to this, uh, contribution to the debate on this bill. Of course, we also commend the Syndicate's initiative to return that name or place of work to the system but would also like to correct the error that other shipyards do not have to go through the process of proving the eligibility of the benefits of a well-favourable job or insurance with increased duration in jobs where this has already been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86838	Thank you. We're finishing the morning session. Continuation is at 3:00. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86839	We're continuing the session. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86840	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Here, we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Stallion of Insurance with an increased duration. As we know for ourselves, there are certain jobs where working conditions are so difficult and whose performance actually requires special efforts. So despite all the measures of protection at work, despite all the modern technology that we apply today, these influences are so difficult for these jobs to affect the health of the one who performs them. There are also such occupations, and therefore we have exactly this law which precisely defines these jobs and determines where a certain insurance hold is recognised as being increased. So whoever performs 12 months' work in such jobs, it is recognised depending on the job whether 14, whether 15, whether 16 or 18. It depends on the conditions in question. These are jobs means in mines, ironworks, slots, construction works. And as far as today's law is concerned, it means one job in maritime shipbuilding. How are these jobs determined? They shall be determined in a way that encourages the establishment of such jobs or to delete certain jobs from that list either the employer or the trade union or the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. In addition to this incentive, the proposal must provide certain professional documentation on which it is based. And afterwards, the competent national authority shall provide this to the expert, scientific institution that it shall give its final opinion on whether there is justification for a given place of employment or interest to introduce and establish as an internship with an increased duration. Here, today is one such bill before us. And it refers to, it refers to certain jobs, to a particular job in maritime shipbuilding, and it is a working place of machinery on board. So, we are now supplementing this list of jobs where we acknowledge that the insurance internship will be worth an extended duration. De facto the one who works at the ship's machinery site will be recognised as 14. And following these earlier assumptions that, the working conditions are such that they reflect on human health as well. And that way, we'll come to the point that this man means he can retire early. The procedure from this we see is carried out very correctly. The union gave a boost. The expert bodies said it had an excuse. And so we have this proposal right over here. I have to say, I'm even personally and sorry that we didn't bring it into an emergency procedure, because here, compared to the first reading, nothing has changed. So colleagues and colleagues, I think this is one of the rights that actually belongs to these people doing jobs in these jobs. In some other laws in the Labour Act, it means that some other benefits are prescribed, whether they are more than a number of days on vacation, whether they are worth it in the labor contract itself. But this is one special law that means retirement insurance. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86841	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. State Secretary, would you like a final review? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. Here we have the first proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, which suggests, in its conclusion, that the final proposal for a law on supplementing the insurance standings with an increased duration of the third reading be carried out. I ask Secretary of State Vera Babic to be made aware of the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86843	Mr. President, the government holds that there is no reasonable reason to accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86844	I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Please, let's get on with it. The result? For conclusion 20, abstention 11, 56 against. The conclusion didn't go through. We now have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86845	The amendment is inadmissible. In fact, it is a proposal that contains a description of the jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration which was previously established by the decision of the former SIZMIOR Assembly of '84. on the basis of an appropriate social agreement. However, at the time of the adoption of the Insurance Statutory Act, which counts with increased duration, so the first Croatian law following the federal regulation was carried out, an analysis of all jobs and the need to set up periods with increased duration in the new technological conditions, and the legislator then decided which jobs should be covered and which not, and in addition, was prescribed a special procedure establishing jobs not according to the nomenclature of interest as suggested in the amendment but according to a specific case, a specific workplace, working conditions in the specific workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86846	Mr Silvano Hrelja's representative on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86847	Dear Secretary of State, this is an eclectic example of a lack of understanding of the real situation in shipbuilding and in the shipbuilding system. The Government's position is to agree on the proposal of an independent trade union "Brodosplit" and to favour one shipyard in relation to other shipyards who have publicly said that they have the same problems, the same jobs, water under the name of the current nomenclature of interest, the national classification of occupation which is also an act of this state and which is not respected in the adoption of this law. Therefore, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86848	Thank you. Please, let's get on with it. We need to vote on this amendment. The result? 25 for, 5 abstentions, 60 against. The proposed conclusion was not accepted. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 80 votes for, 4 abstentions and 3 against the proposed law. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I am voting on the next conclusion. You'll be the secretary of state before you do. A proposal for a conclusion. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to submit within 90 days to the Croatian Assembly a report on the number of pensioners and insurance undertakings subject to the provisions of the Interval Insurance Act with an increased duration, and the most accurate information on how specific contributions of employers cover pension expenditures to cover pension rights of pensioners based on periods of insurance with increased duration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86849	The government accepts this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86850	Accepted. Thank you very much. This conclusion should be voted upon. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 88 votes for the proposed conclusion. We're going to the next point. - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on pension insurance companies and pension payments based on individual capitalised savings, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 661 Proposer of the Law is Government, first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health. State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vera Babic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86852	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. As you know, pension insurance in the Republic of Croatia is arranged at three levels or three pillars. So this is about compulsory pension insurance based on individual capitalised savings, second level. And voluntary pension insurance based on individualised capitalised savings, which is the third level of our pension system. And the system is, therefore, this part of the system is governed by the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies and pension payments on the basis of individual capitalised savings. The holders of this part of the established pension system at the second and third levels are pension companies managing pension funds and pension insurance companies paying out pensions made in compulsory and voluntary pension insurance. While the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds provides for the collection and capitalisation of contributions to pension insurance, the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, whose changes and additions are now proposed, has regulated the activity of these companies and the payment of pensions made by payments at the second and third levels. The current application of the law has shown the sustainability of system solutions, but has also shown the need to build up individual institutes with a view to achieving greater efficiency in the retirement procedures. The need to redecorate certain provisions of the law has also been demonstrated in order to achieve greater precision and thus better conductivity in practice. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to the law, which is also particularly important, are also related to the alignment with the European acquis. It is the European Union directives governing equal treatment with men and women in social security professional systems, preserving the right to additional pensions for persons moving within the European Community, on the activity and supervision of institutions providing vocational pensions, and establishing a legal framework for the payment of pensions as part of the supplementary pension insurance. In addition to this proposal, it is also proposed to amend the definition of related persons by which it is a shareholder or a group of shareholders holding more than 10% shares or equity shares, with a precise definition of the concept and degree of connection, which is a alignment with the amendments to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, or in accordance with European rules on associated persons in the field of investment fund insurance. Furthermore, the addition of the provisions of the law regulates the issue of payment of pensions from the Republic of Croatia to users in the Member States of the European Union without restriction including additional pensions, and to users in other countries, i.e. to third countries in accordance with the bilateral Social Insurance Treaty, i.e. the basis of reciprocity if the contract is not concluded. An easier and more efficient retirement procedure is proposed in the event of a lack of data for payment, and systematic communication of competent institutions is established in the process of concluding a pension agreement. In addition to an improved formulation of the provisions of the law, the process of closing the personal account of a member of the Mandatory Peace Fund in the exercise of the right to retire has been more clearly regulated. In the case of excess technical reserve funds, it is not disputed that a quarter of these surpluses, to increase intervention reserves, and the rest is allocated to pensioners by proposing here and the way in which they distribute the proportional amount of pensions, the duration of payment, the form of pensions, etc. Furthermore, the definition of new concepts relevant for voluntary retirement insurance on closed voluntary pension funds is proposed. Definitions of new concepts relate to an additional pension system, additional pensions, pension rights and the right to pension from an additional pension system, the notion of a Member State, the person of a Member State and the concept of a sponsor to which entities that can establish closed... Pension funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the adoption of this law will remove certain irregularities in the text of the existing law for the purpose of its more precise and better application, maintain the continuity and stability of the system and bring this part of our legal system into line with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86853	Thank you. The committees. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86854	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the Payment of Pensions on the basis of individual savings. In the opening part, the promoter reminded in a three-part way how our pension system was organised, and in fact we are here talking about that popular second and third pillar. But now related to the societies that run the pension funds. If you remember a few months ago at the end of the year, we discussed amendments and additions to the law that regulates this first level. So, talking about funds. Now we're talking about companies that run these funds. What is really important in these amendments and additions to stress is already said to be there. It's about improving the system itself, making it more efficient and actually more accessible to the users of these funds. It is important to note that those items related to the mandatory second pillar are broken down. So, mandatory individual capitalised savings from the voluntary one. So, that third pillar. The news is that now these ownership stakes are being defined a little more precisely. So this system of connected people is what's popularly called. So all levels from the level of funds to the end-user that falls within that fourth level. Everything is legally more regulated. In fact, it was cleared from those unnecessary complications that the pensioner may not have understood well at times. What I would like to point out in this new proposal is one fact, that compensation, it was a mandatory fee of 5% that applied to both the first and second pillars now comes to a change. In the second pillar, it remains 5%. However, in the third pillar, it is allowed to be higher. Therefore, it depends on the competition between companies. So she can be taller. This may not be good if the third pillar and when we discussed the funds in some way became unstimulated. Until then, he was stimulated that the state had stimulated anyone who paid in the third pillar with a certain subsidy. It's now in the proposal in the first reading whether to end it. Now actually this in this other way the third pillar is essentially burdened by maybe the higher yields. This means that it reduces the mass of money that will be available to the user at the end of it. However, it is important to note that all these changes that have been provided for in this way by changing the law go towards improving the situation. I'd only have one question, perhaps one question to the proposer when it comes to asking for a member. So, when that user under inheritance law should be said that if he is not found within a year, then at the end of that year that he gets that compensation only from the time he was found, that all that until then was not his. It's kind of illogical. I think it's him, it's his money. He's right. You can say there's no interest on that. But that he should still get it seems to me that we should take a little care of it so that it doesn't happen. The technical reserve has been well worked out and it has been pointed out exactly where everything can be said so I would say to fertilise the money in both the second and third funds, under which postulates and what conditions and what is the good thing that it is also in some way specified that the surplus funds if they exceed 10% can be deployed in that part and to increase the mass to pay the pension. However, if it crosses 15%, then it is mandatory to deploy it. So it's kind of well-made that if there's more than 15% in that technical reserve account. All in all, I think this proposal will be good at improving the law itself, that it has in some way brought into line with the parts that we already discussed when we talked about the funds a few months ago, that it is also in line with these new concepts that are important in joining the European Union, so this term "additional pensions" etc. to enable pensions to be paid to non-Croatian people, so from other countries in the European Union through various contracts. So I think the law improves the existing law that is in force and will benefit our pensioners. This is why the HDZ Club supports the proposal, amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86855	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, this is one of the laws that falls under the regular procedure of agreement or debate on the Economic and Social Council. But also one of a series of laws that passes the Economic and Social Council, but in the light of the law, the Government has never laid down a single bill before, at least one sentence of notice whether the social partners have discussed and whether the proposed text of the law that the Government is referring to the Parliament has reached. I know that this bill was discussed on the Economic and Social Council, that the trade unions had no more serious objections to the proposed texts, but that representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association gave in principle support to the draft law, with certain notes they prayed for to be clarified in the meantime. I think it would be extremely good if this law, which in its application refers to several hundred thousand, and even millions of citizens of this country, had at least been given another line of reasoning as to the position of the social partners if the government had already made so much effort, the founding of the Office for the Social Partnership, established by the Economic and Social Council, which is holding meetings, which discusses the proposed laws, in many cases agree. But we as a Parliament, as Parliament, never officially have that information. So if these questions are asked or the decision is tense, then the government's representatives subsequently provide information that it was a debate, but they never said what the position of the social partners is. So I would ask, in particular, for proposals from the labour-social legislation resolutions, if others do not want to do so, to come before us with one sentence so that we should not wander, seek, call and ask whether representatives of the union or employers have any more serious objections to the proposed law. So my first question to Mrs. Secretary of State is whether these remarks by the Croatian Employers' Association after the meeting of the Economic and Social Council in the meantime have been removed, agreed or slow or that conditional support of the Croatian Employers' Association has been converted into unconditional or they have remained at their positions. This is the first objection, and I would ask for a second reading when the law comes that one sentence will not additionally burden the amount of material, and I think that also with such a relationship the Government and Parliament would allow insight into how much within the Economic and Social Council there is consensus or if no partner had an opinion, reserve, conditional support and how this process was later on. Too much money has been invested in the establishment of the Social Partnership Office and in the functioning of the Economic and Social Council, and I don't see it, either, Mr. President, it's because we haven't yet received a consolidated agenda of this session, yes, I hear very well. So too much effort and time has been put into this without Parliament being reported. Secondly, I would like to ask, in the light of the second reading law, that at least the basic information in this law is very important to me, how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have compulsory pension insurance in the second pillar, how many are in voluntary retirement insurance, how many are people. How many people have decided on a third pillar, or voluntary retirement insurance, to provide for age - old existence? How many and what funds do mandatory and voluntary pension insurance in the Republic of Croatia work? How many people have insurance, members? How much is the average annual contribution per fund or how is individualised capital savings progressing? What's the contribution to which fund? I want to believe the government has that data. And why are they important? I know there's no direct impact on the fund's business. I know neither the Parliament nor the Government must interfere. But the success of these funds depends on the level of annual contributions of the personal capitalised savings of each insurance company, from the second and third pillars, on the social security of those people who will be retired in 10, 15, 20 and more years. What will be the pensions from this insurance? Aren't we going to get data now that the business of individual funds and their annual contributions don't provide, and even with that state intervention that the law provides for an average pension that would be at some level of social minimum? I think these data would be extremely useful in assessing the quality of the consequences of this law. It is one thing to align it with the European acquis. Have our funds in their business been in line with the European Union's gains? Are these offerings also in Croatia, annual offerings as much as in Europe? Is their investment, and there are fewer shares on the Croatian market, so we also enabled them to invest in risk shares on the world market. Remember the law change we had a few months ago. Did those changes to the law and to the opening of an increase in the limits they can invest on the foreign capital market, i.e. the securities, increase annual yields, improve the business of these funds? Based on this information, this data, and always the obvious and clear position of the Economic Social Council, would probably be less for us as Parliamentarians in the position of arbitration, speculation as to who thinks. They'd probably wander less in their attitudes if they got it in advance in the bill. We'll shorten the time of the debate. We'll cut the number of questions. There will be less tension and anxiety over these topics if the Government gives us such information in advance in the light of the law. And that is why I would ask, in particular, Mrs. Secretary of State to allow us to make sure that everything that comes from work, social security, pensioners and health insurance in the light of the law is always that information, will be extremely useful to us and will help us to take our views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86857	Thank you, too. Dear Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86858	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! In this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Society Act, I have several objections, although I believe that it is basically good material for discussion and can be supported in first reading for second reading. But until the second reading, I think we should reevaluate some of the solutions a few more times and see if they should stay this way or maybe we should correct them a little bit more. First, when it comes to related persons, raising the price from 5% share capital to 10% share capital or share and calling for a law on compulsory and voluntary pension funds, it seems inappropriate. First of all, for the reason it's about insurance companies and it wouldn't be necessary to link it to that law. And secondly, it is still about limiting part of entrepreneurial freedom. I must remind myself that this should be further examined from the point of view of Article 50(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which I will quote: "Employment and ownership rights can be severely restricted or by law in order to protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia...", it seems to me that there is no such thing in this segment, then nature, and this does not concern the area, the human environment and the health of people. Therefore, I find it difficult to explain or link this constitutional basis to these limitations of integration or such a form of exploitation of entrepreneurial freedom, given that they can also give an increased share in the acquisition of capital. Maybe one more time until the second reading should question it. Second, my comments are related to Article 3, where it is based on the fact that the Agency will withdraw the licence from the member of the insurance company's board for a certain or indefinite period of time due to the obvious violation of this law and the management of an insurance company against the principles of law. You know, I haven't found in any of our laws that specific principles are prescribed in the Insurance Society Management Act. Rights, obligations and responsibilities are prescribed. That's right. But the very principles of running a business and managing a society are gone. First, it would be a little illogical, and in such a situation, it should still remain in this situation if it is a violation of the law that, in fact, in such and such cases, will be difficult to implement only from principle. And if you go to the principles on which the law is made, then you must often not only write them out of writing, because they are not from the spirit of the law to come to the solution of what it is. And then that means there's actually no such possibility of realisation. The same is true of the new paragraph 9 where it is said that the Agency's decisions on the withdrawal of the licence are finally and cannot be brought against it by administrative dispute. I will, consistently, fight against such a formulation for a simple reason, the Constitution of Article 18 introduces a two-stage system in administrative action. It is extremely possible to exclude the appeal and immediately refer to the administrative dispute. But if the Constitution requires exceptionalness, then the law would probably need to establish the reasons when it is believed that some exceptional situation can be excluded from the right to appeal. I think it actually strengthens and extends the deadlines in solving these issues because too many courts are burdened at the same time by the administrative bodies in the most important thing where the administration should do and that is the administrative treatment we are actually free of. But that's why we're burdening them with some other business, but that's another debate. In particular, I would like to welcome the formulation of Article 28a, in fact an idea which is essentially the development of our Constitution on gender equality, and it is not just a question that is in line with European documents, but it is very difficult for me to accept this kind of formula by which it is stated in particular. Then a partial emulation method was applied in particular cases where it was numbered. But it wasn't done until the end. At the same time, the method of possible general clause was not accepted. I personally believe that no discrimination is allowed when it comes to violations of the principle of gender equality. In this respect, discrimination must be a zero point. Therefore, I would be in favour of that formulation if discrimination was prohibited in the exercise of the right of compulsory pension funds or of a pension title which could lead to discrimination in any form by... And I think it might be something to consider, not like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, if it is listed, there may be a number of other examples that might be referred to or should be subject to such a prohibition. It would further comment on Article 35b. Article 2(2) where the right to notification referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is said to have both former members or pension fund regardless of their place of residence. You know, it's just a question, it's tied up in Europe quite often in cases when you leave the fund because you move from country to country and... a fund that has contractual relations with it is working on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what about the situation in Croatia, for example? I leave one pension fund, I go to another pension fund, will you keep me informed and this one can be a competitor to this fund? They're voluntary funds. That's why I think you should take a look at it and see if such a solution as it's supposed to leave here. In Article 13 relating to data acquisition, I fully agree, but should add to the clause that, with the obligation to use such data, it is required to ensure that it is aware of these data and that it must use those data in accordance with the Data Protection Act. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, But what is most interesting to me is Article 18(3) where it is said that, over the period referred to in paragraph 2, the selection of the relevant society cannot be changed or withdrawn and is considered final. My colleagues and colleagues, it is not clear to me that such a solution is possible, given that the constitutional act is, after all, not to report to the fund but to a contract concluded with the Fund. On the basis of the contract, they acquire and assume the rights of obligations and responsibilities. So it's not clear to me that I would have to sign up for the fund. And now, I can close a contract before then, so you tell me if I've signed a contract before anyway, it's running out of time when the possibility of applying is out and not before I made the deal. And if I make a deal, then of course I can't cancel before I'm 15, why? Why? Any application you can withdraw at any time, you will resolve all obligations by contract. The second question is what, which character has the application as a conversion legal act in relation to the possible takeover of rights, obligations and responsibilities related to possible damage possibly to one or the other party. This is how to report and start from the fact that the act of registering the fund itself means to make commitments to the fund and there is no obligation on you in relation to it until you enter into a contract and the deadline expires, I think it would be a little too serious that the more the team has here, the question is what is the basis of the acquisition of subjective rights, whether it is law and contract, and second, if that is the application, then the questions that legal character has to be called as legal act. Is she an administrative act? It's not. What are we, what are we up to? I think that this whole article 18 needs to be further examined and, in this respect, to see what this relationship is, in fact, between the contract concluded and the application on the one hand and the question of deadlines on the other. In Article 19, it is quite an interesting question, in fact, when this central register lays down rules where, among other things, it brings those regulations that have the character of a public document, especially those relating to the content of a payment order, etc. I think in that part, you should say, however, at least limit that it can do so in accordance with specific regulations because you have specific regulations that regulate the financial acts that should be taken into account. And I'm just getting back nomotechnically to article 18, mainly. For example, you have in it the choice of society, the change of choice, the application for choice, the conclusion of a contract and the adoption of a general act by the central authority. Watch out, you can have five articles, that would be the most nomotechnically clean. But it's not right to talk about the contract and report and you can still... and then, among other things, say in the same article that by a general act of the Central Insurance Register... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's arranged, what now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in the same article. I think it should be the first reading, there's time, it needs to be separated, and then it could be further specified. As a result of all of this, I still have only a comment on Article 27, because I don't think it's comprehensive enough. He says finely: "From the day of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union, the persons of the Member States can carry out their supplementary pension insurance for employees in Croatia and voluntary pension funds and Member States can operate in the Republic of Croatia under this law. Yeah, what about non-member countries, it didn't exactly work out here. What about countries covering the so-called economic area of Europe? Here I think of Norway, here I think of Switzerland and the same treatment we took over by international contracts... It shall also relate to them from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you to also consider and look at this part and then, as part of it, look at the particularly bilateral agreements that we have with neighbouring countries and other countries where we have made a similar commitment in relation to... Well, that should be regulated, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86859	Thank you. Does the secretary of state want it? He won't give a final review. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings. First reading. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. A proposal for this law is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? unanimously with 90 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86862	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The area of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia from the 1980s until this proposal is not systematically and fully regulated. In 80 C.E., the Law on Cinematography was passed and only partly this area was then arranged. In this sense, the conditions have been met today to propose a single full legal framework for the systematic editing of this area. It is equally necessary to introduce a new asset insurance system to ensure the conditions for systematic promotion of audiovisual creation in Croatia. The draft proposal before us was drawn up by the expert commission of the Ministry of Culture in which prominent experts were appointed, as well as representatives of all relevant groups and associations in the field of audiovisual activities. With this bill, we want to regulate the implementation, organisation and financing of audiovisual activities, the promotion of Croatian audiovisual creation, distribution and complementary activities, the protection of audiovisual heritage, the promotion of cinematicism and the demonstration of Croatian audiovisual works both abroad and abroad. In the design of this model, the promotion of audiovisual activities has been analysed by European and national legislation and I must say that this bill does not fall within those laws that we are harmonising with the European acquis but indirectly, and we can say that since the current way of financing the budgetary promotion of audiovisual creation would fall within the area of state aid which is avoided by the proposed model. In fact, by working on this bill, we tried to translate into Croatian frameworks in an appropriate way European good practice in which, especially when providing funds, we wanted to connect budget sources with those extra- budgetary ones and I'll explain it a little later. The largest number of countries has established appropriate centres, institutes, funds in which cultural policy is created in this area and where funds from different sources are networked, both domestic and foreign. We therefore propose this law to establish a public institution of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, which is an institution by status, and nextly, the management system is taken over from this system while, as a regulatory body that will create a cultural policy in the field of audio-visual activities, it proposes the establishment of a Croatian Audiovisual Council with explicit competences related to the regulation and promotion of audiovisual creation. I particularly stress that when proposing how to set up a Croatian audio-visual council and determining its competences, we specifically wanted to separate the functioning of the institution from the regulation of the issue of the promotion of audio creation. It is governed by the administrative council by the institution as it is common under the Law on Institutions which has exclusive jurisdiction to make business decisions relating to the functioning of the institution. While the Croatian Audio-visual Council implements and encourages audio-visual creation in the proposed way and the most important segment and most important document that regulates this is the national audio-visual creation programme. Desiring to decide on this area, all decisions are made by the Croatian Audio-visual Council except for the adoption of the National Programme for the Promotion of Audio-visual Activities by the Minister of Culture for the Four-year period. In doing so, we want certain frameworks and guidelines to be set in this National Programme, not only according to the country's audio-visual creation but also to the commitments that take place on the international agenda in that segment. So co-operation with Euro-Image, with the European Union's media programme. So the Croatian Audio-Visual Centre, or this Council, became the headquarters body for the promotion of audio-visual creation. Another important segment of this proposed law is the way in which we have, as I have already pointed out, tried to merge towards the audio-visual centre not only budget funds that have so far been systematically financed by audio-visual creation but also by all those entities that are used by audio-visual works in carrying out their activities. Of course, it's the first one to hit television, especially the public that's done it so far, and we're also bound by this law to continue. But we also think of commercial televisions, which we expect, in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media and also European conventions which oblige them to make 10% of their own, 10% of their programme come about in independent production, and obliging them here to co-operate with the Croatian Audio-visual Centre and to participate in means to encourage audio-visual creation to realise this very commitment through the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. This model exists in European countries, and it is these two mechanisms that create one interest that we, too, have tried to articulate by obliging these entities to the minimum means that we prescribe in Article 3 that from our annual gross income we share in the realization and promotion of audiovisual creation, we open up the possibility that they have a contractual relationship that they and their other needs and programmes or production and other needs in audiovisual activities are achieved through the Croatian audiovisual centre. This mechanism exists in a number of countries, as I said with different keys providing funds. After that, we adapted this to Croatian occasions. Here you will also see that we have included mobile phone operators and that is because audiovisual works are already used in this kind of media communication. Also, Internet operators who increasingly become distributors of audio-visual works and also those who use audio-visual works in a way that primarily thinks about cinema viewers, video activities, as well as those where audio-visual works can be consumed on request. One such example is certainly hotels that have television programs on request. Next, this first reading is also an attempt to regulate the legal framework for these activities in a modern way, and we expect your comments and suggestions and so that we can improve the text for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86863	Thank you. Do the committees want it? The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. President-in-Office Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86864	Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of this Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a law on audiovisual activities at its 33rd session on 18 April. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. Participants in the debate supported the objectives to be achieved by adopting the proposed law. It is stressed that it is time for the film and other audio-visual forms to be protected as a cultural product and to create a material basis for their smooth production, distribution and public presentation. It is estimated that the establishment of the Croatian Audio-visual Centre and the Croatian Audio-visual Council will create preconditions for improving Croatian audio-visual activities. That's where you think clearly in the front row of the movie. Asking questions about their relationship between the audio-visual council and the audio-visual centre in the light of the powers laid down in Article 14, it may be necessary to consider whether the Croatian Audiovisual Council should only be one body in the membership of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre as an institution, or whether it should be independent with the legal powers and liable directly to the legislator to whom, and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre will firstly provide professional-administrative support. Several proposals have been made to improve the composition of the Croatian Audiovisual Council in order to achieve greater representation of the cultural public and audiovisual professions and to reduce the excessive impact of audiovisual good-for commercial purposes. The applicant's representative provided assurances, i.e. answered questions concerning the legal nature and reasons for the instruments offered for the procurement of funds for the implementation of the national programme for the promotion of audiovisual creation referred to in Article 31 of the Law proposal. All in relation to the solutions referred to in Article 33(1) and paragraph 4 of the Law. Participants also agreed with the view of the present representatives of film professional associations who pointed out that the proposed solutions go not only to the affirmation of audiovisual goods as Croatian cultural facts you recognise in the world, but also to the affirmation of audiovisual and complementary activities as first-class economic facts that have been neglected in Croatia in recent years as an economic option. The board members agreed that it is necessary to establish Croatia's cinematheque as a special institution. They also pointed out that for the purpose of archiving audiovisual material an appropriate space was built in the building of a national and university library that is now used for other purposes. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposal for a law on audiovisual activities. All opinions and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to determine the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86865	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86866	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community club will certainly support the proposal for a law on audiovisual activities for the following reasons. This is one of the most important laws in culture and artistic activities in the Republic of Croatia. A law that must unite several segments in its most important definitions, namely film production, film distribution, film protection and the establishment of a national programme in Croatian cinematography. It is therefore necessary to establish a new legal framework for the implementation of all these activities to enable the involvement of different entities in the financing of these activities, which is a practice in a number of European Member States of the European Union. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia, as we have already heard, it is still valid, although in the most part it is a completely inapplicable 1980 Cinematography Act with some changes and additions from 1990. Since it was adopted in then completely different social and normative circumstances, the Law on Cinematography was in principle but also in its concrete normative solutions outdated and became practically inconclusive. Permanent support for Croatia's audiovisual activity has been achieved and is still being achieved by the Ministry of Culture in the framework of the state budget funds as the main sources of funding. In an effort to increase Croatia's feature film production, the Ministry of Culture and Croatian Television appeared as the main co-finances of Croatian film play. In November 2005, an agreement was signed on the conditions and criteria for determining the production programme of the film and its financing. The law attesting the European Convention on Film Production, i.e. co-production, created more favourable conditions for the production of international co-production films. By adopting the law and the accession of Croatia to the Euro Image Fund of the Council of Europe, which promotes production and distribution of films, domestic film producers have opened up new opportunities for multiple forms of film co-production, and cinema support viewers as part of their regular activities. In 2005, distributors received significant funds from this fund, and by joining the Europa cinema system, which through Euro Image supports the presentation of a European film by several cinemas in Croatia, has achieved significant support. During 2005, the Ministry of Culture and this is very important for the creation of this bill established an expert working group involving representatives of directors, producers, distributors, cinema viewers, televisions, universities, State Institute for Intellectual Property, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and employees in audiovisual activity who developed the proposal for this law today before us, and with the aim of developing that system in naturally new circumstances. This new law will regulate the organisation and financing of audiovisual activities, which includes supporting, encouraging and developing audiovisual production, distribution and promotion of audiovisual works in the country and abroad. By passing the law, we will create conditions for achieving many goals, one of which is certainly very important, which is the promotion of Croatian culture as a special, equally valuable component of European cultural identity. Of course, that the adoption of any law, especially those relating to culture and art, cannot guarantee two basic things specifically related to this case for Croatian film, which is its quality, and the other is its ratings which is very important because one of the basic questions of Croatian culture today is how to return the Croatian film to the viewer, i.e. how to return the Croatian cinema viewers to the hall when the Croatian film is shown. It is a very paradoxical situation in recent years that Croatian films at European and world festivals achieve great successes, the collection of awards, directors, screenwriters, actors. However, it has not yet guaranteed that they will be seen in the country. And so the situation happens not only once that after passing the opening ceremony and a week of screening the film is watching one movie performance of 15 to 20 viewers. It is, of course, a paradox compared to everything that is being invested in Croatian film, so not only for effort but also for huge resources. And that is why we believe that the adoption of this law, especially through its national programme, and within the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, which will take over the activities that the Ministry of Culture has been doing so far, will therefore establish mechanisms that will, of course, not literally, but try to bring back to the Croatian film the dignity towards the public, according to the viewer who truly deserves it. I'll just give you one more piece of information so we can maybe figure out why this law is so important. In 2007, the 271 scenario arrived at the Ministry of Culture's competition, so the current competition. Which means that a huge number of creators, directors, screenwriters and, of course, organizers are interested in this activity. They want to work, but we have to let them do it by means of legislation, by means of mechanisms, to allow them to do it for someone, not only for themselves, so much more because it costs a lot of money. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will all-out support the bill. Of course, we'll be able to even improve it in our joint debate. But once again, we may not even know how important this law is, because it is a very, very sensitive one, and it should also be the widest, widest area in the area of culture at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86867	Thank you. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86868	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS Club will support this bill for two reasons. The first is that it goes into the right reading and that it is not a rape of Parliament to bring everything by emergency procedure. And the second is that this is proof that you know how to make a good law, but you just won't. Congratulations on this law, you did great. I have one tiny little remark about this first reading, which is, the number of council members is 12. I think it should be an odd number because when making decisions in any case should be when voting to be but there are other proposals where it came from other cultural workers and I believe it will expand. But what we got from the proposal is 12. So I think there should be at least 13 or any other odd number, or 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86869	Thank you. There were 12 in Cardiff. So it's an even number. ... Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86870	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86871	SDP club, respected representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86872	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. One discussion about the film began with the next finding, and that's a movie we have, and we don't have cinematography. It's actually, then we were responding, it's actually great if you can have a movie, and you don't have to have cinema. But of course it's not like that. Cinematography is what is the basis for film. And if the film is made happily as otherwise done or as the film production has been growing continuously for the last seven, eight years, as this production has grown, it is probably also looking for a basis now in some institutional solution that will be different from this, extremely reduced and simplified, which is that the state gives funds, that it is negotiated through the Ministry of Culture with Television and that, by some criteria, they are successful or less successful, and on the proposal of the council, they make decisions on which films will be financed and that then it is directed to say so to those who will realize them then they realize them. And the fact is that together we have really had a huge increase in the number of films in these 7, 8 years, that we have had good films, that films were awarded at foreign festivals, and that at the same time we have no ratings in Croatia, that we are never sure how we will continuously have good films, that we can actually not stabilize their fate, but that they always depend in some way too many factors of happy circumstances to reach them. So it was certainly time to go out with one law, and that law, however, included as much as possible to get cinematography. In that sense, this law, which we will otherwise support in the first reading, was made by a certain step, but could not cover all the elements that would be necessary to obtain a real background and economic and each other for the development of cinematography. He couldn't because, in the meantime, in Croatia and what happened, that the cinemas were relaxed, that they were privatised, that they were gone, that the multiples had turned to other interests, that the audience had lost interest in cinema, that producers and producers were film producers who were great worlds to say the stamps failed and that they were privatised etc., etc. I wish I could see, we would love, I'm sorry, if we could see that this law could have included all those elements. He couldn't cover them because it goes according to other laws. That's what all privates have become. They do so to say as they please. But it seems to me that when at least producers are concerned and it is about saying that all those who can provide services in the production of the film can take a step further and see how they handle some of their obligations, so if they should also benefit from the fact that some benefits are now being opened, that they participate more actively in the production of Croatian film and in the services concerning foreign film, which used to give big income to just such businesses, we all know that we are talking about "Jadranfilm" but not just about "Jadranfilm". So we will support this law in that first reading, but we would pray, on one condition, that some things may still be changed or that some who so far sound good but do not know what the consequences will be. So first you should say the following. The position of the council is very important. It actually makes proposals for a programme to decide on a national programme which is actually a programme of fact-finding Finnish production if I'm not mistaken, it's in fact that and it gives that proposal to the Minister of Culture. This technology is fine and, of course, one who spends in some way a major asset, especially if it's state resources and needs to put a initial on how they're going to be spent, it's not disputed. But it is disputed next, and it is that so far as this function has actually been performed by the Council of Film at the Ministry of Culture in it were, in fact, primarily film makers and artists, not even like this one strong player who has even in this current proposal as standing and dominantly not artistic and not professional in the narrow sense of the word, in terms of film art and base but has it somewhere else, there it is in distributors, in mobile and fixed telephone operators, the Internet, etc. etc. So I think that everything about the commercial interest in the film, which must be mandatoryly respected, can still play a crucial role in the national programme because it's actually our national film program, it's hardly going to be commercial. We need him for many other reasons not just commercial reasons. Finally even if it is a film of such great cinematography as France and it must be defended by special regulations against Hollywood film, and in fact those who base their position from the distribution of film in a way of commercial interest certainly do not belong simultaneously to those interests we are interested in from the point of view of value and the point of view of art and the points of view of successful films etc. etc. So there is a danger that in this form of a council that he, in some way, who has a certain independence, is to be removed in the sense that he is no longer the advisory body for what we want but for something else. I would like to ask and ask you to proceed well and possibly install those elements into the structure of a facility like this. I note that everywhere and very often such a case is with us, which is that the bodies we form in order to be creative so that they can be closed and that they know how to pull in and not give any results. That's where we should find a way to stop it. In this respect, the relationship between the Management Board, the Council and the Chairman of the Management Board should be defined differently. According to this current proposal, the president and three members of the board of directors are actually appointed Minister of Culture. I think it's too much, but maybe it wouldn't be too much considering the five members if it were to be implemented in another way, that he would appoint these members and presidents but from or on a council proposal so that the council would be put in an active position so that he might not have to have a proposal exactly those three members, he could give him a bigger proposal. But it wouldn't in my opinion, it would be something that doesn't conform to the meaning of such an institution that actually the president and three members outside this circle are appointed minister. I think it's actually an unnecessary precaution, but if it's already about intentions then it should go this way, so from the film council, from the council of the audiovisual council to the board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors. In this regard, it is pointed out, and I think that I particularly support such a proposal and the Committee on Culture, which highlighted the possibility of doing this again. Finally, when it comes to what is now being replaced by other material bases for the development of the film, this is where we come up with a proposal that I wish could be realized, but I'm not quite sure. We certainly have no reason to have in front of us a proposal from one ministry I doubt to say so in support of what the ministry has at the other ministry, which is the Ministry of Finance. But for such percentages, which include, in fact, entirely economic activities and private, etc. interest is probably not enough law in this particular draft, but also relevant segments concerning tax laws and others. I wish it could be realised, but the general remark is the following, and that is certainly about decisions that cannot be envisaged, but the resources involved in the budget should not fall because there will now be more resources possibly on this second basis. If it could be checked and relived then maybe it could be realized that way. So far, we need to be careful, and actually, if this is how it's going to work now, we could be sure only after some experimental phase to see if this can work and how it works. Here are some suggestions and, perhaps, some minor amendments, we will support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86873	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86874	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry. We have before us a proposal for a law on audiovisual activities that interests me, of course, first as a parliamentary representative and citizen of this country, but above all also as a film lover. For years, I've been asking the question why there is no Croatian film that would fill the halls, honor the exceptions. Which is why Croatian cinema cannot take the place it once took and could take. The answer was in unregulated relations that rule the market for audiovisual activities. And indeed, the last law was the Cinema Act in 1980, so 26 years ago, and as far as I know, it wasn't any other law or any other act that regulated this area. The situation today concerning cinematography in Croatia is very bad for domestic cinematography. We also have in these materials documents that say it's for example. 1990s and '91s. Any 66 cinema seats, today 48 thousand, that's '91. There were 173 cinema halls, today 147, so the number of seats is dropping, the number of cinemas is dropping, and it would be interesting to see the data of the visit of Croatian films in these cinema halls. Therefore, the ministry's conclusion that this area should be regulated is fully justified and the Ministry of Culture has therefore established a working group of experts from this area and related areas in 2005, including a working group of representatives of directors, producers, distributors, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, cinema viewers, etc. As a result, a proposal for a law that gives us quite a guarantee that this area will be regulated and that it will allow not only to comply with our regulations with European Union rules, but rather to regulate the relations of audiovisual activities in our own country. So, if we start from the definition of audiovisual activities, then it is said in this Act that these are also played documentary films, animated films and all other audiovisual works that represent an artistic expression regardless of the technology that they were created and the base to which they were fixed, or recorded. Of course, the very definition shows that this definition has changed greatly over the past years because the technology in audiovisual activities has made significant progress and that is certainly one of the reasons why cinematography is losing part of its audience, but of course it is not the reason why this area is not regulated by one of these laws. In law, I find a whole series of good solutions, but here's after them when I underline them I'll say a few suggestions. So what is certainly good in this Law is that institutions that will be guided by care, of course under strict control, supervision and state, but also by different other institutions, are justified until inspection supervision. These are primarily the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and the Croatian Audiovisual Council. Therefore, the Croatian Audiovisual Centre to be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Resort Ministry of Culture, has activities that will certainly focus on improving the situation in this activity, that is to build, design, prepare and implement the national programme of promoting audiovisual creation, collecting and distribution of public tender financial resources, large painful early Croatian cinematography, which I will do a little later on, will encourage and organise domestic audiovisual content, festivals and various events, organise the protection of audiovisual heritage, organise professional training, organise contacts with abroad, encourage measures to protect children from inappropriate content and finally coordinate the entire area with the European Union's programme and measures, and in this sense I believe that the Centre will satisfy. The centre will be financed partly from the state budget, partly from its own activities, which should, of course, be specified by additional sublaws. The main bodies of the Management Board, the Director and the Croatian Audiovisual Council are also precisely defined, different tastes are whether it is good or not, I think that is how well I was informed about one midway which other European countries also went to. Therefore, the Governing Board of this Council itself, which will manage it, has been appointed by the founders and many have objected why the founder of 5 members appointed 4, 5 is an employee, or 3 members of one president. I think this is normal and logical because the founder through the resolution ministry will give and most of the financial incentives, will also organize and answer for the whole area and it is logical that he then appoints members here, and of course, during the course of the competition, he appoints various independent experts who as consultants will have the function of objective selection of quality scenarios. The centre also runs an eyewitness of audiovisual works recorded in the Croatian area, runs obvious distributors, so everything comes under one control, becomes visible and becomes verifiable. What I would like to especially highlight is how to finance audiovisual activities. It's here to be precise, expand and quite strictly defined. So other than what the Ministry of Finance is already giving from the budget, other than what the Croatian Radio Television gives, new entities are also being introduced. So besides the state budget, Croatia will participate with 2% of its revenues at year level and various other entities listed here with 0.1 to 1% of their annual revenues and that is certainly a quality solution. I'm just asking one question here. Shouldn't we regulate perhaps in this document, and this profession and ministry must respond and encourage private producers? In other words, a private producer creates for the market and cares about the quality of recorded audiovisual material being such that it attracts viewers to attract users. So, I'm asking if you should and if you could get into another reading in some way stimulating a private producer who in this funding seems kind of bypassed to me. You probably need to combine private sources with these listed here, so here's what I'm wondering how this could be solved? And secondly, I'm interested in the area of this funding. Since certainly the state remains the main source of funding still through the budget, which via Croatian broadcasting as a public house which is again financed by the most money collected from these citizens, is not the role of the state too small in directing the entire area of Croatian cinematography? So the one that finance, which is mostly the state here, has the right in some way to channel these funds, of course not affecting the freedom of creation by encouraging further cultural development of this area, the informative development of this area, the documentary development of this area. But I'm still undermining one question. If most of it does come from state resources, or national television, wouldn't the state have the right to call thematic competitions as well? In other words, should the state not seek favourable scenarios for those areas that are of particular interest to it? I'll only mention one thing, and that's the Homeland War. Croatia lacks a cult film about the Homeland War, Croatia lacks quality films about the Homeland War. There were several, but they came and went and left no big lead. At the same time, even some socially encouraged financial and other ways of the house are financed by some other film creation on the same subject, so we watch movies of the Puhovski clan that have nothing to do with the truth, about the artistic impression of some experts, and the state does not answer for itself to encourage those films about the Homeland War, which will very much bear witness to the truth on its artistic and/or documentary genre. Therefore, this law could probably be done in some way and still not to deviate from the European criteria and the possibility that one small part, at least these funds, could be directed by Croatian cinematography in that direction which is far more important for the country, which is among other things the truth about the Homeland War, a quality contribution of art and documentary film about the Homeland War, because, unfortunately, this market is dominated by different subjective, untrue, narrow views that will leave long-term negative and untrue consequences for our viewers. In this sense, here, I suggest that this part be somehow installed in the next reading because we, this generation at all levels and also at the level of audio-visual activities are responsible for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86875	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86876	Proposal for a law on audiovisual activities. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for this law is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86877	We're moving on to the next one. - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, emergency procedure I, if you haven't heard I consulted with the Secretary of State and did not request a final word. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for society, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 669. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86878	The Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage whose proposed confirmation is the only international document governing the protection of cultural heritage that the Republic of Croatia has not yet ratified and included in its legal system. It relies on all the international conventions so far, but respects the Convention on Cultural Variety, and we believe that despite the fact that we are in the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, as well as the Law on the Protection of Nature, because this Convention also focuses on the preservation of the most valuable segment of the cultural and natural heritage of humanity, although in these principles we have already incorporated into the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Heritage and the Law on Nature, we propose that it be confirmed by further encouraging the implementation of all the instruments that it proposes. We also accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee with regard to the correction on the name of the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86879	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. The board? Here you go. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. ... 669. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86880	There you go, ladies and gentlemen! Allow short on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Namely, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 33rd session, held on 18 April 2007, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society with the Final Proposal of the Law. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The Convention whose confirmation is proposed by this law and according to the reasoning of the president of the proposings is the only culture that Croatia has not joined so far, although its plantings have already been incorporated into Croatian legislation as when it comes to cultural heritage. Thus, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Value of Cultural Heritage of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86881	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86882	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the applicant and became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86883	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law confirming the European Convention for the Protection of Audio-visual Heritage, emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 666 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's no need. The Committee's rapporteurs? The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Honorable Representative Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86884	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Here, then, let us inform you that our committee and this law have been discussed. The Committee also questioned this law as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The proposer pointed out that, given the standards already reached at the legislative level and in its implementation, Croatia can sign this convention without fear, confident that it can meet its requirements. Croatia stands with the necessary space significantly better than before and is investing in the restoration of audio-visual heritage, which represents not only the artistic foundation but also the first-class historical documentary material. On this occasion, too, the need for the establishment of the Croatian Cinematheque has been highlighted. So the following conclusion was reached after a brief discussion. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law confirming the European Convention for the Protection of Audio-visual Heritage by means of an urgent procedure and form prepared by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86885	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86886	Final proposal of the Law on the approval of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86887	We're going to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, first reading of P.Z.E. No 670 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Information and Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary. Here you go. Mr. Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As you know in 2003, the Law on Electronic Media was adopted, which in its largest part was in line with the European acquis, but during the screening and further implementation of it, the need for its additional harmonisation and this proposal for a law that goes into two readings even though it is a coordination with the European acquis that represents exactly that supplement that has been established in the course of the screening. I don't want to bother you, but I would just like to point out to you what issues are involved and what questions we have further arranged according to the European acquis. This is a question of the competence of the Republic of Croatia with regard to the activities of broadcasters of television programmes, the issue of exceptions to the freedom of transmission and reception of software from other countries when hate speech or the provisions on child protection are violated, but I note that such measures can only be taken in consultation with the European Commission. Then, provisions on child protection to strengthen child protection and exclude the possibility of watching or participating in programmes and content that may endanger their physical, mental and moral development. The provisions on advertising and telemarketing have also been amended, in particular with regard to and compliance with the Law on Medicinal Products and the Food Act. There are also clearer obligations for the majority share of European audiovisual works in the programme of broadcasters and the share of independent producers, so the first must be over 50% and the second must be at least 10%. Also, the status of a fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of media has been reorganised. In 2003, we set up this fund as a budget fund of the Ministry of Culture because it could not be added to a regulatory body such as the Council for Electronic Media and this proposal for a law, we propose that this fund be made available to it fully and managed by the Council for Electronic Media to become a fund of the Agency for Electronic Media. When I mention the Agency's establishment of an agency with a council, the need for administrative reinforcements is because, in the period from 2003 to now, it has been demonstrated that the Council as a regulatory body needs one professional service to monitor the implementation of the law, process all the data resulting from this and, consequently, create a basis for the Council to exercise its regulatory powers. During this period, it happened that for some of these precisely which the Council ordered from third parties, therefore through the contract that these third parties work at the same time or similar jobs already for the supervisors, so that there was one awkwardness and one need to administratively strengthen the council so that they could actually exercise their powers. Speaking of powers, I must point out that the bill increases the powers of the council because it empowers it to adopt all sublegal acts implementing the law and also allows for what has not been possible so far for the council to coordinate certain issues. The system of co-regulation is in the field of regulatory action, so such independent regulatory bodies are common European practices which were not the case with us. It is, in fact, that the council, for example, will be able to negotiate certain issues with those who are interested in these issues. When it comes to child protection, it will surely be the public defender for children and other institutions who have already been called upon to regulate issues, and with these institutions, the Council will be able to lay down together additional rules, and following this as mentioned on some committees the question of what pornography is or what is considered to be groundless violence, or the rules of conduct regarding the publication of relevant software content. I must also say that in the area of the needs of editing how digital technology will be applied in the field of electronic media, we have two provisions in place here. However, I must say that we expect to end a year and a half of the debate that lasts on a new European Union directive, and in May, we expect the adoption of a directive that will regulate this area that I am holding then will allow us to adopt certain frameworks in the second reading of this law and allow our electronic media to adopt these modern... So they digitize their programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's so much for the introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86889	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86890	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Unlike the previous law on this law, we have more objections, and in fact, in this form we will not support it, but we will suggest something else. In fact, this law is passed a month before a new directive on this activity should be adopted and is actually previously based on the '97 Directive. A year. Of course, these are not all the elements passed by law, and surely a whole series of things can be done and in a way that does not have to depend on what kind of directive they will be, but it is absolutely unnecessary to pass the law at this point so before it seems to me, and I will try to show in a few examples that even some of the essential things that should be more precise are not determined, so that when this inaccuracy is still connected and what we will get about the new directive in a month, I am afraid that I will have too much work to do and that we are simply giving ourselves unnecessary work now. But I think it would be useful for committees to hear an opinion and in fact, it is our suggestion that this law goes into zero reading at the moment, and to report first, with first reading after the elements of the 1997 directive, I am talking about the European Union directive inside. With regard to these examples that seem to me, then, that they do not in themselves justify or are not well-developed enough to be able to live legally, just to mention. For example, in the definition of an electronic media publisher, it is said, among other things, that it is a natural person or a legal person who has editorial responsibility and so on and who transmits programmes or transfers them to third parties for it. It is, in fact, a way of opening up the opportunity for the publisher to also be a distributor of programs and concessionaries, although it is actually prohibited in all so democratic countries that take care of freedom of the media and therefore two separate functions that are here, which must be separated to identify what is one and what is the other. In the same article, for example, paragraph 2 of the terms such as a multiplex operator, a network operator, digital radio or digital television, as well as other concepts in the area of telecommunications, have the meaning of the rules concerning copyright and related rights and communication. There are no rules like that. In this regard, there are no places to regulate this matter and to sort of define what these spaces are. This shows that even though in this respect these laws can be expected to be passed we are passing a law that is currently called for by laws and where such formulations do not exist. I don't see the rush to do it now if it can all be done neatly when the time comes. And some remarks that we also don't understand why they've been changed because they don't fix the decision-making process in the Fund or in the Council. Let's say what this means now is the introduction of new elements and criteria such as quality and content innovation or general interest in cultural development. Who's going to interpret that? Of course, things sound perfectly fine, and each of us will accept that they are some values to take into account, but here we open up the possibility of discussing things that few of us can be competent without a very arbitrative approach and can advocate that I say my vision of creativity and innovation and that, in fact, when the distribution of funds of the Fund means a lot. So this kind of thing, instead of perhaps those criteria have been developed on an empirical basis that could produce a greater result and rule out arbitration and now actually respect criteria that can in some ways give more arbitration than is necessary. It is also related to something that does not exist at this point but the bill contains the possibility of this existence but therefore cannot be implemented since there is no consequential connection. When it comes to digital radio and television, it should be said that digital radio is neither yet in practice nor we know what it will be necessary to regulate everything when that matter is reported. I don't know why I do. We're going to pre-regulate something we don't actually have the basis for. It is now a non-legal remark but is important to understand the role of the regulatory body in this area. In his own law, he prescribed in a large debate between the observers at the time, so to speak, by observers, those who watched us pass laws regarding media space, that the regulatory body in this case appointed the Council for Electronic Media by the Government. And indeed, the government has named it. She didn't name the previous government, but this government named it. We are not going in, to say the Government's intentions and the government's right to appoint, when the law has already been passed, the relevant Council or to propose to the Parliament for appointment, but the non-transparency of this procedure, the affairs which occurred in this Council which were neither fully implemented nor resolved. Public polemics, applications, court applications even for bribery and so on have not been investigated here. I think before we get to this in which way this body should be set up again, we should have some answers. Those answers should go in the direction of these questions that I just said. I think we must be interested in this, all of us like the Parliament, the Government, the opposition, the party in power or some other, because we compromise one possibility that we have struggled in our time to have a government and that we do not have to have difficult actions over to say wisdom in the Parliament. I'm sorry to use that term to get a regulatory body. If the government already has a chance to set up regulatory bodies then it has to put them in charge of the competence of these regulatory authorities and we've had a series of cases, you remember from HINA that I don't even mention where it wasn't. I hope that in addition to the questions concerning this law because they open up the possibility or open up, they will eventually open up the need to solve the issue of the choice of the regulatory body in a different way, I hope that we will get this in one way and related to the current resolutions and appointments in the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86891	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The National Minority Club has found that the practice so far indicates the need for the allocation criteria to be clearly established by law. And this is about funding, of course, for emissions from national minorities. Discussing the current allocation of funds from the National Minority Club Fund, he pointed to inadequate evaluation of certain content related to national minorities. The detailed criteria or points introduced by the Council for Electronic Media by its decision to allocate funds to the Fund with minimum points have evaluated precisely the software content intended for national minorities, which is a particular problem for us and we believe that this must be introduced by a certain rule that we do not know. This, according to our assessment last year, resulted in the already mentioned phenomenon that out of 148 radio and TV broadcasters with concessions lower than national only 16 offered emissions intended for national minorities, which is, of course, directly related to the low evaluation of programmes intended for national minorities. And it is expressed in terms of its opinion in the Club that the political allocation of funds, i.e. the corresponding score of programme content for national minorities, of the Council should increase the interest of publishers and encourage them to broadcast that type of programme content. So we are now referring to the second reading of our own, our position that this proposal to amend the law should also be regulated in fact by self-evaluation, not allowing this evaluation to be made without any known and without clear criteria from the Council itself, and hopefully then we will see the need to value better programmes intended for national minorities, because otherwise the whole system that gives a certain percentage of the means of Croatian broadcasting, from the subscription to the promotion of national minorities' programmes, it is actually losing meaning because such programs never occur. We will persist in this in the second reading and also in the corresponding amendments, the corresponding amendments, or, of course, if it is possible by agreement which will ultimately result in a different manner of conduct and the drafting of Council regulations, the fund pardons. It is also important for the club of national minorities that the entire Internet, which points to the need for legal regulation of advertising content that is harmful, which can be potentially harmful and which are often harmful to the psychological development of children and that regulation concerning advertising of pornography, betting, lending and in daily presses and, of course, within the frameworks... The media. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to protect children's rights, but also to ensure the control of business and source of income through the establishment of advertiser status and the availability of data on their activity. I also convey, of course, the opinion of the Ombudsman for children who, by special document, pointed to these dangers. Of course, it is clear to all of us that only defining concepts such as pornography and senseless violence must be done and as objectively as possible and that avoiding all possible extremisms with the aim of protecting children without unnecessary and harmful morality that is not in the interest of anyone, of course. We're done with that, too. The National Minority Club believes that one whole area of electronic media, the area of the Internet is actually poorly processed by law. We are familiar with the traps of regulating the area, but the fact is that by showing hate on the Internet has become almost a daily phenomenon. And how important freedom on the Internet is the freedom of those who can be objects of hatred. So we have to protect freedom and people who can be attacked by the Internet. Just because the Internet is a space of freedom doesn't mean that a person can act on the Internet in a way that is above or below all criteria, all moral criteria. When ours, when it comes from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities when the first proposal went, the first proposal for a debate on such attitudes on the Internet, about encouraging hate on the Internet, of course against that whole or at least most of the Internet's world actually turned to that. But that can't discourage us. If it is possible to fight pornography and to fight pedophilia on the Internet, it is also possible to fight attitudes that encourage hatred. And it will be increasingly relevant and more current and I suggest that the promoters take care of it, because without the legal regulation of this area, there will actually be that anarchy in the worst sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86893	Thank you. In conclusion, State Secretary Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86894	I thank you for the discussion and for your comments and suggestions we will consider preparing the text for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86895	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86896	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic media. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for that law is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and one against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86897	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Reconstruction Project II, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 671; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. The proposal for an act has been adopted in boxes pursuant to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Zdravko Livaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86898	Your Honor, Deputy President, Your Honor. Here's just a few sentences about this bill. The guarantee agreement itself was signed on 12 December 2006 when the loan agreement was signed between the European Investment Bank and the Croatian Roads as the realiser of this loan. This year it ends so-called. ‘beterment 1’. This is the same loan that completely restored and reconstructed 415 km of state roads. This project "road Renovation II", means "Beterment II", continues with the reconstruction of state roads by 2010 and is projected to be 52 shares of state roads of a total length of 682 km of renovation. Construction works based on this loan if confirmed by this House begin this year and their completion is projected by 2010. Otherwise, the total value of this project is 237.9m euros. That is a billion and 760 million kuna. The total project would be financed with these 60m euros from the loan, and remains from Croatian Roads' funds. The maturity of this loan is 20 years and includes a start, which includes a start of 5 years. The interest can be fixed at 4,057% or variable according to the choice of the borrower. We ask you to accept this law, because by accepting it, it becomes operational, and then it goes into realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86899	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is exactly the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as the home working body discussed this bill proposal at its last session of April 18th and, according to the introduction we heard from the proposings, discussed it entirely and I will repeat, very briefly, what. This Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank provides for a way of subsidising financial commitments that can be made for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under the guarantee agreement and the responsibility for the implementation of the guarantee contract. The project consists of the reconstruction of 52 shares of state roads of a total length of 682 km. The total value of the works is estimated at around 237.9m euros, of which 60 million is provided through the settlement and the current loan from the EIB under the conditions stated that, with the remaining difference of 187 and something covered by the Croatian Roads Fund. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopts the proposed law by an urgent procedure. Since its entry into force is a presumption of entry into force of the Loan Treaty, which allows for the use of loans and implementation. It is therefore proposed to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86901	Thank you. We're crossing. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS, MDS, Honorable Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86902	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The PGS Club, the SBH, and in particular the Međimurje Democratic Union will not support this law, i.e. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project "Renewing Road II" or "Betterment II". For the simple reason that there are no miles between these 682 kilometers, which among these 52 shares is not a single share from Međimurje County. I don't think this is good, and it would be very important for each of our regions to have a specific project within the framework of these laws, so more so that we know what roads are like in the Republic of Croatia. The same situation is in Međimurje County. We therefore think that in their plan and programme of the Croatian road, they should have predicted that a particular stock and Međimurje County should therefore be included in these priorities. We know what we would have done, so if someone had asked us or asked someone from the county, we could have talked about the eastern tour of the town of Čakovec, about the tour of the town of Prelog, maybe about the bypass of Nedelisce, about the restoration of the state road, so from highway to Donja Dubrava, about building a road bridge near Kotoriba, ie. at Mura Kerestur or to move the border crossing from the Marine Centre. So the projects have but unfortunately no project has received state support. This causes our dissatisfaction to a team more if we compare some more data. I was a few months ago just for this reason and asked the ministry a representative question, i.e. Croatian roads will therefore be allocated to rebuild or build roads in Međimurje County in 2007. I received a response that total investment, for regular maintenance, for co-financing, for BETERMENT will be allocated only 13 million kunas. The total budget of Croatian roads for 2007 is over 2 and a half billion kuna. These 13 million kunas are zero half of the total budget of the Croatian roads. I think we're being discriminated and damaged here. This is more if I bring out information that it drives more than 50,000 different vehicles on the Međimurje roads, or 2.7% of the total number of vehicles in the Republic of Croatia. And we get only zero half a percent in 2007 to rebuild those same roads. And we also know that from every liter of gasoline 0.6 of each kuna is then separated for Croatian roads. We think it's not good and we just can't accept this redistribution of funds that are centralized, that are collected in one place. And I'm saying, their distribution is highly questionable. I don't know if it's possible to do anything. I don't think so, right? Therefore, our club simply won't support the Road Rehabilitation II project.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86903	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the distinguished representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here are just a few reasons why the HDZ club will support, support the bill. Firstly, we believe that this is an extremely good teaching cooperation between the Croatian state and the EIB in all the projects that have been so far. We remember, about 13 projects have already been realised that these projects were related to different, just a few last, to the Rijeka bypass, to the Split bypass, to Corridor X, to the railways we recently adopted, etc. Of these 13 projects, this is a continuation of such good cooperation. The goal which, according to the programme of maintenance and development of state roads in the Croatian roads should be achieved in our view of a more balanced and state development. The reasons why we accepted, why we believe this should be accepted by emergency procedure is that this project provides for 682 kilometers in 52 shares and in the various areas shown in the draft law on page 50 and 51. So the other interested people can see what the shares are that I'm not counting them here right now. The total amount is also 60 million guarantees to be provided in order for Croatia's roads to benefit from these funds, but also from the obligations of the Croatian State if there is no recovery of those funds or if there are problems in that return. All the difference between 177 and something, 178 seems to me to be millions of euros, we believe that Croatian roads can be singled out in the future without any problems from their resources that they will have under current conditions. It should be pointed out in total that, and this is, in fact, the essence of all, that this loan and this guarantee are used as well as under the most favourable conditions as the other Member States of the European Union. So it's really a success that, unfortunately, we haven't been able to use often so far, now simply these funds under these conditions should be used for the following reasons. First, in order to implement the contract that we have achieved, but then with the aim of faster withdrawal of funds and the ultimate goal of starting work and realising the projects that are foreseen by what these works and projects need to be realized between 2007 and 2010. For this very reason, here are several of these reasons the HDZ Club proposes and supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86905	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Neither will the Croatian People's Party club vote for this proposed law nor will they, but I would ask if it is possible for the secretary of state to answer several questions. 50% of cars ending in the Adriatic during the tourist season cross the border crossing, and comes from Central and Eastern Europe, cross the border either in the Mursko Centre or in Gorican. 75% of road cruisers, trucks and tanks sent as in export goods or coming to Croatia as imports or heading towards the river port, crossing the Goric border crossing, and not on the highway, because the toll is too expensive and driving along the old road. In the tourism development and market of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Russia, Ukraine say our tourist experts are the perspective of Croatia, they are in Europe. And every year, the number of passengers, passenger cars, trucks, tanks, lorries driving that direction and ending either in Rijeka or in the entire Adriatic area and using old roads, and on the Mursko Središte – Čakovec – Varazdin and other roads are not available except for this old state road. There is another direction, it is Čakovec – Štrigova and this part of Slovenia and Austria up which is also a state road, and Štrigova is the most developed part of Croatia you know, that's what the Slovenes say that since they were created as a nation is theirs, you know in the last two weeks they also own Strigova. And now I ask what criteria were that of the 682km of state roads covered by this programme that remains in force until 2010, there is no single metre of intervention on state roads in Međimurje. What are the criteria? What? How? What was I supposed to do? Who should have done something to ask, see, and answer the question of how, what about those state roads in Međimurje? 237m euros hard project and 13 million kunas will be invested in Međimurje, a colleague of Pavlic's. I guess it's snow-cleaning and pouring and burying blast holes with concrete. It's about that 13 million kuna. Međimurje of these tourists and transits does not benefit only because all these state roads pass the densest populated territory of the Republic of Croatia by villages, in the middle of the village, near schools, churches, ambulatories, pharmacy. The Mursko Centre border crossing is located in the city centre. The border is half the Mura River. We can't cross the other side with him. We can't move it backwards, we need to get out and we should make it out of town. It is planned, it is promised, that the only solution is to move the border crossing outside the city and build a few kilometers of state roads to bypass the city and reunite with the existing state road. It is a border crossing that becomes more frequent in the tourist season than Goric. It will therefore not be intervened by 2010, and it has been mentioned for years. But at the same time Croatian roads entered the investment and built a bridge in St. Martin on the Mura that leads nowhere, from forest to forest, but the bridge near the Murski center that would allow us to move the border crossing will not be built, it should not be built by the Croatian State. Border disputes, the border line has not yet been claimed, but we have built the Slovenes a rash on the left bank of Mura and protected the Slovenian villages from the floods. On the Croatian side we didn't do it, something little started... And the Slovenians are building a highway in Prekmurje. Do you know whose gravel? They're driving him from Mejimur. From Međimurje, they drove the gravel, they bought it, but they didn't ask for as much as I know, permission for excessive use of the state road. For the county where they will drive, I know that they are not, I do not believe they have asked Croatian roads for increased use of the state road to 70 thousand spatial meters of gravel tie in a short time... Maribor. [[You don't understand.]] And on that same road the state will drive that gravel, along that same road towards the Police Centre, which will not be recovered at all. It's funny to see it, of course. When it comes to Međimurje, it's all funny. I'm asking the criteria, I'm asking the reasons, I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if it's a message that the crossing of the Police Centre by 2010 is not on the move plan. I ask if the stock according to the Straggs won't be recovered, it stops at Bezje, 6 kilometers from the town of Čakovec, far from Strigova. I'm also asking this excessive use of the state road of the Ivanovac Shodrane to the Police Centre for Slovenians? If he's gonna pay where he's gonna end up with the money? Even that part of the money won't be invested in state roads in the Međimurje area. And in the end, please, what were the criteria? What selected these 682 kilometers, not some other or at least 10 kilometers in the Međimurje area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86907	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86908	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague named Lesar as a major inaccuracies. He says this: "The Republic of Croatia has made a rash on Mura to protect Slovenian settlements from floods." Well, that's not true. Nasip was designed to protect Croatian land located on the right bank of the Mura River. ... On the left bank of the Mura River, which is not Slovenian, it is Croatian Mr. Lesar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't, it's Croatian land.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86909	Okay. Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86910	Dear Sir... A few words, though I may, in the most part, repeat what Mr Przenjar said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Of course, I will support this proposal, given that with these 60m euros provided through the EIB loan in question, it allows co-financing of a total amount of 238m euros, 52 shares of state roads and a total length of 682km. Of course it's always possible to talk about priorities, talk about whether this stock or that stock, but what I want to remind you is that this is about 50 and some of the public road construction and maintenance programmes for the period 2005 to 2008 in the Government of Croatia programme and this is in some way just the operationalisation of this plan under the "Beterment II" programme. In view of the fact that it is truly favourable and as regards the deadline, 20 years with a start of 5 years and conditions for others of value and for Member States of the European Union there is no reason why they do not support and do not accept this Proposal for a Treaty Confirmation Act. The urgency of course should be supported in this case because the withdrawal of funds is made possible only after the confirmation of the agreement in our Parliament, so that is also the condition for entry into force and the presumption of the withdrawal of the loan. So here are the reasons why I will personally support this Bill proposal and this is one of these 13 public sector funding contracts that the European Investment Bank has concluded with the Republic of Croatia, i.e. with project holders in the Republic of Croatia, either for guarantees. So here's the support for this program.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86911	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86912	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words I'd also like to say about this bill. Of course, like my predecessors, I also support the urgency of the adoption of this Act for the reasons already stated and of course I support both the Law and the Government's efforts to provide these funds from the European Investment Bank with funds for further renovation and construction of infrastructure, in this case roads, i.e. the state roads as mentioned here in this bill. However, as a representative from Sibenik-Knin County, of course, I also welcome the fact, that is, the project of reconstruction and reconstruction of the Drnis-Pakovo village road. Namely, it is road D33, a road that goes from the Strmica border crossing with the meaning of the border crossing with Bosnia and Herzegovina Strmica over Knin, over Drnis and ends in the Sibenik port. The importance of this road to the Sibenik-Knin County is that I don't think it should be mentioned in particular because it connects three cities of Knin, Drnis and of course Sibenik. This road should be of particular interest, given the state of the economy and everything in the city of Knin and Knin is relatively poorly connected to roads, isolated from the centre of the county and of course exits to the sea. This road will have great importance in the long run, looking at why the entire western part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is gravitating de facto across this road to Sibenik, at the Sibenik port, and I think the necessity of building and rebuilding this road is of exceptional importance not only to the County of Sibenik-Kninska, but also to the state interest and I think that Sibenik County is, I think, but it is really because of these roads that connect north with the sea, i.e. the highway in the worst situation. Farthest situation of any county, at least in our neighborhood. Because it's a road, I don't know who it is, I believe that many have passed that road, which was once made for a means of transport that was this wagon on this stock itself, which is extremely critical across Mosec from Drnis to Pak's village, there's an extremely dangerous ride and I can't normally exchange two vehicles there. And so I support that stock, rebuilding and building that stock, but I also think that this project should be accelerated on this state road D33. With what is already in the Parliament's council's summation, the second session of the Parliament has been discussed and spoken and there are certain documents that this road will be restored from these Betherment funds. One section has been started, but means that road reconstruction's been going on since '94. Well, we didn't come any further from Pak's village. I think it's the people and people who live in Sibenik-Knin County, especially the city of Drnis and Knin, who are gravitating in Sibenik, who can hardly accept it. I'll also take a chance here and draw attention to one of the other state roads. A state road called D59 that goes from Kistanje over the Bribery Bridges and comes to the Pirovac knot. We've got 3, 4 kilometers of macadamia, totally unsettled roads, and that's a state road, and no, it's of paramount importance when there's bad weather. When Velebit is closed, when you can't go through the St. Roc tunnel, then all the cargo trucks and everyone goes behind Velebit are going to Kistanje and they're still going to Pirovac. And I think that there is, I don't know how it can happen to say such small funds that are needed to at least do some repairs or reconstruct, I think it's important not only for the Sibenik-Knin County, it's also important for Zadar County, because traffic I tell you all freight vehicles goes round the Kistanje and comes to the Pirovac knot and continues on the highway or in the direction of Sibenik and Split or in the direction of Zadar. Well, here I am taking this opportunity that this is accurate on the agenda and the presence of the Secretary of State that I will really find ways and means to make this extremely important section of the road, the state roads both D33 and D59 finally refurbished so that the hinterland and the Sibenik-Knin County would be better connected to the highway and the sea, which is of exceptional economic importance. But also speaking for these state reasons because we said that this D33 is going from the state border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this D59 road is an alternative in the case of the closure of the St. Roc highway, Maslenica, that it is as an alternative, this direction is extremely important. Here, so in a few words I want to make my contribution to this debate. And I don't know, here we're talking about the state road also for us from Sibenik-Knin County and, of course, Split-Dalmatia County, in this case I mean the municipality of Vrlika or Vrlika, that it is extremely important to finally edit and pave the 6km of roads that go from Maovica over from Maovica to Siveric. So that the entire hinterland of Sibenik County would open up towards the city of Sibenik, or towards the sea. This is of great importance both for the development of the economy and tourism in the city of Vrlika and the tractor for parts of Sibenik-Knin County. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86913	Thank you. In conclusion, Secretary of State Livaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86914	Here, to try to answer these specific questions primarily related to Mr. Pavlic and Mr. Lesar for the County of Međimurje. Well, it's a matter of criteria. So, in the preparation of this project, a justification study for all these roads and all others offered by the Institute of Construction of Croatia, given the state of the road, the amount of traffic, etc. The justification study went to the bank and the bank, along with Croatian roads, had to be limited to those roads that were most endangered. This Croatian road was a policy for itself, rather than on the basis of very strict criteria for which the European Investment Bank is a European Investment Bank. These are not the only funds that the Croatian road or state invests through them. State roads are over 20 thousand kilometers away. I from 2004 to 2008 55% of the funds will be invested more than in the previous 4 years. Otherwise, traffic on highways is on the highway Zagreb – Rijeka in the first 3 months 18% and on Croatian highways, on highways under the authority of Croatian highways 10%. So you wouldn't agree with this if those roads were overloaded as it was said here. I would like to conclude that there are other programmes from which Croatian roads finance reconstruction, reconstruction and construction of new roads. Comrade Topic, as far as Sibenik County is concerned. I think the past few years since the highway which is of interest to the entire state but is concentrated on the Sibenik-Knin County itself, is under way and during the completion of the construction of the technological road so-called "Technological Road". which connects the Sibenik port which has been declared a state port from this government. And that project will be completed this year. A new merger was built between Bilic and Sibenik II knots along with a deniveled crossing for Dubrovnik. And there's a breach in the Trtar tunnel that comes from the Sibenik knot to the part that was restored through "Beterment I". However, there is absolutely an agreement that the road towards Drnis, Knin or Bosnian Grahov is where it is already going, that it is of great importance and that preparations have been made through spatial planning documentation and through the idea solutions to make a completely new route of the road, because we appreciate that the time will come very soon for this. As far as the D59 road is concerned, I don't know the real details, so I'm gonna have to check it out. But there is a special programme for those roads which are unfortunately we have state roads that have no asphalt, so I hope it is foreseen from these means, but I will look at that detail in the Croatian roads themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86915	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86916	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road II Reconstruction Project. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? With 80 votes for and 3 abstentions passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86917	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Report on air pollution measures taken from the Sisak oil refinery in the period 2004 to February 2007. Following the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, the report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Sisak-Moslavina County and the town of Sisak. You took the materials into the boxes, and the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'll be brief because you've received reports, and today we've also debated a lot on the Committee on Spatial Planning. But I think it's important to say that one of the most important parts of the government's program of our work was improving environmental protection and more efficient environmental management. For this reason, we also had to make a specific programme of measures, we made short- and long-term measures, and therefore found that we must, of course, also bring normative acts. We also made the Law on Air Protection, the Waste Act, 15 sublegal regulations for air and fourteen sublegal regulations for waste, so that we could know exactly who is responsible for what and who has to do certain tasks, so that the exact work is divided at local level, at regional and state administration. And also, the most important thing of all is that the large obligations towards those who are polluting it and making it, which is the producer or operator who now has, except for the additional one, are what we have defined on the basis of and the European Directives is a pay polluter. Therefore, this must be resolved in such a way but they must also fulfil all their obligations under these laws and sublaws and prescribed. In Sisak, the situation is not good and we are based on your request and have made a report on the air condition in Sisak. However, we must make an important difference between the centre of the town of Sisak and the area of Galdovo, meaning Gald’s area located, or Caprag, located next to the refinery itself. As you know in 2004, a air quality measurement station in Sisak was set up and now a air quality measurement station in Caprag is set up so that every day it can be checked every hour of the situation with the release of these hazardous substances. Of course, there is still air in the city of Sisak with all the luck of category I, but in Caprag there is air III. category which is not good and which must be prevented and done everything in order to significantly improve the air. However, what needs to be said is that INA is the largest polluter in the city of Sisak but it is important to say that the impact also has "Herbos", both the thermal power plant and other entities as well as in other cities dealing with certain productions. However, I say INA is the biggest contaminant. And at the beginning of the term of office of this Government, we recorded the situation, determined what problems were in some parts of Croatia, especially in Sisak, Kutina and at some other locations and suggested to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the conclusion that the government and accepted and made on 15 July 2004 where we made it mandatory for INA to create a complete reconstruction and recovery programme of the refinery. In fact, the recovery programme was also built in 2000, but it simply did not come true. In 2003, a revision of the recovery programme was made, however, it was not carried out until this programme that we, I say, was asked by the government to be made by the INA. INA did her job, she made a program, we're on a program not to be longer now exactly when and what the Ministry of Economy and our ministry gave consent and they could have started working on the reconstruction of their facilities. However, there is a two-part job to be shared. One is short-term measures and the other are long-term measures. Short-term measures were a very big problem for a time because they simply did not maintain their facilities enough and some incident situations occurred where they were of course to intervene. What our inspection really did is that it gave them exactly the program to follow these tasks and the measures she prescribed about the great maintenance and short-term measures over and over again, and they actually do so. In the long-term program we gave you complete information when which facility will be built, built and when certain parts of the plant will be connected to, for example, Klaus. We're sure it'll be over at the 8th month of this year because it's true that they didn't start on time the way they did in the program, but there was a problem. I don't defend them, but you have to say what it is, an international competition. The international competition has failed twice, the commission has cancelled the competition twice. In the end, they managed to arrange the works. Work is done. And what's important is to say for all these papers there are and all the permits, so this job really happens the way it's supposed to be done. However, since this all didn't begin in time, it is clear that neither by the end of 2009 as it was intended it could not complete the work, it will end by the end of 2011, and we are safe because already the project documentation was made, since a tender for certain works and for these other things has already been opened, not only for Klaus because Klasu is actually working. We're sure it'll be done. As for the inspection measures there should be two, it should actually be understood that in the first order according to our Air Protection Act it is known exactly what the unit of local self-government is in charge of, which is the county, which they must do, when the eco-station comes and when our inspection comes. The inspection is very, actually many times in the location itself. They were there 15 times in 2006 and 2007. I have to say that we don't have enough inspectors to have one inspector exclusively for the refinery and that he could intervene at any moment, but we don't need them to intervene at any time because this is now said that since we set this station up in 2004, it worked out in 2005 and today our citizens can see on the display exactly at any moment what air it is, it happens that at one hour these picks appear and that's what we also heard today talking about 100 times that it happened, it's true. That those picks showed up. But the picks appear for different reasons. And the most common reason is to include one plant, to show up that dot that lasts an hour and then disappears. In that case, when we know exactly because we have a direct relationship and we follow that condition, when it's known that the situation is that and that it calmed down after an hour, there's no reason to go to the field anymore. However, if incidents happen as they happened in 2006 6 times, of course the inspection was there all the time and present and in, doing its job. As I said before, the problem is one in maintaining the facility. Another problem is in major investment works and in full reconstruction means these long-term works, reconstruction of the complete facility. And what I think was done really well is that INA was able to get them to react to everything that the inspection was doing to them and all the measures they were prescribed. They even spent a certain training of people. We worked together with them this part of the work so that we think the situation today is much better than it was but still not good and unsatisfactory and we are not yet naturally satisfied with the quality of air in that part of Sisak. It is certain that the situation will change significantly when everything is over but this year, too, in the eighth month, it will be much better when the plants are merged into a "claus" and when this detour is really going to work in a completely different way. It is important that at the end of 2004, a decision was made to take the INA, which, in particular, insisted that Sisak be given priority. You, today, who were on the Committee, could also hear that it is in the river refinery that the "claus" is now being called, calling the competition. Here are the works done in Sisak and will be completed in the eighth month, in the eighth month. We've given you this complete report on the work of our inspection. The fact is, we haven't followed in days. If we hadn't given the report in days, even though we've been following in days, I've also said why. Because these picks happen and then disappear, but these decisions were terribly important because finally INA started acting the way anyone who has such facilities should behave and who has to provide people with clean air. So we gave that score, we said everything we did. What INA's gonna do. Unfortunately, in this report you didn't get the full health report that was supposed to be. But it's not over. The Department of Health gave a preliminary report. The preliminary report that managed to get from the Department of Health Protection of the County, which is accompanied by the State Institute, however, will finally be received by the end of this year because statistics are statistics. We out of statistics actually they out of statistics just can't get everything, all indicators. But since they are also doing field research, you could therefore get this preliminary report that says what the health situation is in the Sisak area. The fact is that it is not good, but it is also true that it is not the worst in Croatia and that we have some areas where health care is concerned and the situation is unfortunately worse. We therefore take the necessary steps in these areas and the necessary measures to change air quality as soon as possible, but it is clear that during such a long period of time it has been working since 1927 or that until now, it is not until now that it is seriously affected by this facility and the event. Of course, INA is to blame for this situation at all. It's clear that they have to do this job and we're going to try to do everything we can to keep that deadline as short as possible and get people to clean up as soon as possible, clean the air. We also suggested a proposal for conclusions. As far as the first conclusion is concerned, we have made it clear who has to participate in a task force that we would appoint to monitor the whole, this whole work. The Association "Eko Sisak" proposed that one of their members be part of the task force. So we have nothing against it, and we can suggest that, apart from these ministries and institutions that are your city of Sisak, the county that you are assigned here to be one member of that association. Secondly, we've assigned INA what needs to be done and that's their job. Of course that group will, and so will we, follow the execution of those conclusions. We also suggested that the other polluters in the Sisak area be made to make everything and make programs and make all that they should do so that we can see, for example, Hervos who has already reconstructed his plant that is now in the test drive and, if everything is okay, they will also get a useful permit. And the thermal power plant in, in Sisak that goes into reconstruction. HEP built his own program. They also produced complete project documentation. They're going to build another block because this one's too small to connect everything to the gas so the air from that thermal power plant is as it should be. It is also a proposal for you to conclude that the Ministry of Health must finish this, this report through these public health laws and we will try to agree on them, and the minister has also, on a few occasions, uried that it should not be until the end of 2007 who writes here but that we should try to get those reports as early as possible so that it can act sooner and later. And the last conclusion that obliges us and the town of Sisak and the county to submit every 6 months a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we will also, today it is concluded that the Committee should also present this report and we will, of course, deliver such a report to the Committee. Today there were discussions about the protection of plants, on the very protection of the forest, on the committee itself, and of course we will try to do everything. However, this report spoke of air pollution, which clearly has an impact on both the plant and the animal world. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86919	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Environmental Protection. Representative of the Committee, Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86920	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection as a parent body discussed the report on the measures taken in relation to air disturbances from the Sisak oil refinery for the period 2004, and also discussed reports on the air protection measures taken by Sisak and Sisak County. The Committee discussed the proposal that the working group to appoint the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in order to continuously monitor the quality of air in the city of Sisak and the dynamics of works on modernising the refinery plant in Sisak in addition to the proposed inclusions and representatives of the eco-based association of Sisak “Eco” association, which was also accepted by the Minister of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next conclusion. A report on air pollution measures taken from the Sisak oil refinery for the period 2004, 2007 with the proposed measures, is hereby adopted. Secondly, a second conclusion is proposed to oblige the Government to report on the results of the proposed measures every 6 months and in exceptional cases and within a shorter period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86921	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86922	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's club appreciates that the report on measures taken in connection with air pollution from the Sisak oil refinery for the period 2004 to February 2007 which the government has provided us with a very high quality report that we members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report and support. I must point out on behalf of our HDZ representative that this report has been made with two aspects. It contains an ecological aspect in which an air quality assessment is given in Sisak for the period 2004, 2006. A review of the environmental protection inspection measures was then given also for that period. The following is the programme for modernising the refinery of the Sisak oil refinery with short-term measures and long-term measures for the implementation of the programme, and as regards this health approach, an epidemiological analysis of the incidence of cancer in Sisak for the period 2005 to 2007 was given by the minister's opinion that this is a preliminary opinion based on available data and statistics conducted in our health authorities and statistical institutions. Here we can come to those conclusions. Finally, this report also contains a proposal for measures to be taken by state institutions to improve air quality in Sisak. Allow me just a few words about the assessment of the existing air quality state in Sisak. It has already been taken out of this booth here, the minister said that the situation in Sisak for truth is complex and difficult. Of course, it applies only to certain moments and moments when it comes from existing industrial plants, and thank God Sisak is a real industrial city with a big and strong industry. As you know, INA works there – the oil industry Sisak, the thermal power plant Sisak, Herbos, Segestica, Energo Sisak, Valyanica pipes, and others that are not mentioned here. In the assessment of the current situation, our ministry has pointed out, and for the truth it is so that, starting with the provisions of our Environmental Protection Act, we can discuss responsibilities regarding air protection, or the environment everywhere in Croatia, and not only in Sisak. It is the first thing that produces such pollution either air, land, water or anything, and in this case it is the Sisak refinery. After him comes the City of Sisak, Sisak County, and only after that of the state institutions, namely our ministry and labour inspections and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who are in charge of that part of law enforcement, which is explicitly placed in jurisdiction by law. I would like to see the data in this report on the assessment of the current state where it was mentioned on the basis of the results of the survey at the measured station in Caprag for the period 2004 to 2006 and the benzene measurements showed that the mean annual benzene concentration was 7 and a half micrograms per cubic metre in 2005. 3.37 in 2006 5.4. It can therefore be concluded that the air quality in Caprag is of a different category of benzene. However, considering these other parameters for the sulphur pipeline, the sulfurodioxide we must respect that these are the average values given for that period, that this is not an assessment of those current conditions that occur in the air and air pollution that occur in the halls or in such meteorological occasions when it is possible to get out of the work of these plants, all the plants that do this create such air concentrations to become third categories. So here are some parameters for these situations happening in Sisak. We therefore hold that they must continue to take action between themselves and the inspection measures. This report is very detailed. We appreciate that our inspection has done its work quality, almost excellently I would say, from the moment this Croatian Parliament passed the Environmental Protection Act and when the provisions of this law gave very broad authority to our inspection at our disposal, it has taken appropriate measures and taken. The second thing that I also have to say on behalf of us from the HDZ Club is that the report can conclude that the refinery program Sisak is for the truth a real quality program, because it's given up on these, I'm going to tell the former improvisations so it's always been said here we've made a program, so we're going to go ahead, and we're going to fix this facility, and we're going to fix that facility, and in fact, the means to modernise and eliminate the difficulties in production were it not because these funds went to other programs within that company. However, for the realization of this first stage, we are informed today that 150m euros are being secured in which the first thing will be arranged and the plants from which the sulphur-derived and sulfurodioxide has been drained, and by changing the way fuel is produced, i.e. fuel containing more than 1% sulphur will also not be used to achieve a certain air quality. The second programme, a long-term programme that the minister also mentioned here, refers to the complete reconstruction of the Sisak refinery, but also to the Refinery of Rijeka where over a billion and 100 million are planned to be invested. I must point out that by discussing Sisak, we must and advocate the production of a different quality of fuel, a quality that will be equal to the standards in the European Union. Because that's how we're going to solve, largely solve, the issue of air pollution that they're producing, as you know, cars and all of them, all of them, those devices that use gasoline as fuel. Finally, I would point out that the proposed quality measures that our Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Economy, are very pleased that it is now involved in solving these problems, the Ministry of Health and others are going to take in the next period, because we are standing at the point that air quality is available to the citizens of Sisak, as well as to all other citizens of Sisak, should ensure that each of us in the Republic of Croatia in the place where they live and stay has the air quality of the first category. Mr President, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this report and the measures proposed with this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86923	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86924	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it's much easier than two months ago today to discuss the topic of air pollution and pollution in Sisak. It's simply because the thing is still serious with this report and it's obvious that some things had to happen in the town of Sisak and around it in order to understand the dimensions of the threat that threatens people in that city. And we had the opportunity to hear not only the people but also the plants, what is not in this report, and what some colleagues were talking about, we warned about. So we accept this report as only the first step, as the initial material from which we should go in the further obligation that the Government and all those responsible for this situation in the city of Sisak should have towards this Parliament, according to the public, primarily to the citizens of Sisak. The list of measures given here indicates that the long-term solution of the problem is being considered, so obviously there is nothing that could lead to a spot, quick or urgent resolution of the situation unless we close down all that industry, and I don't think that's an alternative that anyone would support. Unfortunately, we also discussed that the history of pollution in the town of Sisak is too long. Decades of irresponsible environmental relations are present in Sisak to a greater extent than in another of Croatia's cities. They're the consequence of saying one general in the world not strong enough sensitivity against environmental problems until 20 years ago on one side. On the other hand, I would say the political ideological attitude that has seen prosperity and progress in the smoky chimneys. But things have changed and the environment has changed since the mid-70s has become one of the most important issues ever raised on a global scale. But apparently, what was realized in the world 30 years ago took too long to become a top theme to say on Croatian occasions, although the citizens of Sisak have been strongly warning about the problem of environmental pollution, which they may have reacted somewhat less loudly to for the simple reason that in this devastationed city they feared for their jobs. I remember that in the early 1990s, every few people dated the studies of this or that bank, this or that of the institutions they predicted, for example. closing the refinery and turning it into a warehouse. What happened after the iron was already known. Out of the 17 thousand employees came to a thousand and 700, now and less, a thousand and 200 employees. The city that has collapsed in every respect means in an economic, social sense it could not afford, so I would say, at the cost of endangering the health of its inhabitants, I kept a piece of bread that could still be found in that industry in the town of Sisak. This may be a good opportunity to raise awareness of the problem that is so clearly strong in Sisak as the problem of Croatia, the whole country and the whole society, that we are aware of the need for our development in the future to be based on technologies that will not endanger human health. Yes, this responsibility, we have also seen after the Karlovac brewery that literally led to death, and how and in what way this technology is outdated, unmodern, ancient destroys and endangers people's health, not to get a ticket to Croatia even if we have to go slower with development than we would have wished. The price of development must not be ruined by the environment and human health at risk. It is a message from Sisko to all of Croatia. Looking at this report, the measures are numbered, the key potential polluters are listed, although it is limited exclusively to air pollution in the Sisak refinery in a shorter period, so what exactly speaks of what is the point, but a more serious study would be expected and I suggest that the Ministers do so by the end of the term of office, you have the potential for this, and when it comes to other potential or real, we already know the polluters of which are certainly very problematic and dangerous for the citizens of Sisak "Herbos" with their chemical industry even though the production of pesticides has long ceased there, but the products of the funds that are extremely dangerous endangering health. They can compromise people's health if it's an uncontrollable technology and if production isn't organised in a responsible way and from the fact that a new burner for which the Siscans don't actually know who it's burning for and what it's burning. A team more if you look at the micro location "Herbosa" he is very uncomfortable compared to the town of Sisak. It is located in the northern part of the city, unlike refinery, ironworks, thermal power plants that are positioned southeast of these most crowded parts of the city, so the rose winds are such that less pollution in the heart of Sisak or the northern parts. Therefore, "Herbos" in particular seems to me, especially to be observed by the inspection and the citizens of Sisak should regularly present all relevant data when it comes to this pollutant. The thermal power plant with its technology that was modern 25 years ago, obviously since it's also a maputar, given that it's high, etc. can no longer meet minimum ecological standards. We need to see how the Bannian forests work so it will be clear that the acid rains have long left a trail just as I would say perhaps most of all because of the thermoelectric chimneys and the old chimneys of ironworks that are more unfortunately or fortunately now need to think about what we're talking about, do not. What would I like to say about this report in particular? It wouldn't be good to tie our necks regardless of political commitment to the INA's apparent responsibility to our biggest company. In 2000, INA was given the freedom to form its own prices, that no one would take its profits precisely with the aim and with the intention that this profit that the state had not taken, invested, or reinvested, and that it would go as a priority in modernization of both refineries and other refineries. The whole process of modernising unfortunately takes too long, and the minister mentioned it here. Not only does it take an inaccessible length of time, not only have every year or two days changed plans, but not only have they changed the amount of 300 million dollars needed in this regard came to over a billion dollars. It is difficult, it is difficult to take the impression that, as it is today in the debate on the parliamentary committee, there were words that obviously someone was misleading both this Parliament and the public in Croatia by offering solutions that were not optimal. Now that they're wondering why you didn't go into the 2003 reconstruction process how you needed it, then they said it because it wasn't enough money and it wasn't a good project. Well, no one else did it, but INA experts did it. There is no excuse for such behaviour, and I would like this House to in some way make clear and warn about the responsibility of the INA regardless of whose ownership it was and the responsibility of the INA administration for such a situation. It's a minimum of what we can do. It is reported here that in 2004 just the basis of the inspection report was requested, it is forbidden to tell the Sisak refinery to implement, to implement short- and long-term measures, etc. to process raw oil in the technological process with sulphur content greater than 1%. And then what? And what happened? Nothing. Nothing happened. Well, we can't, so it's already a little underestimation and the states simply go beyond the fact that there are binding decisions that have come from the state just like this to overwrite someone's gain. As mayor, I was assured in INA that it was a terribly complicated thing to cross from high-sum oil from 1 and a half percent sulphur to low-sumpour oil or light oil, that it was a matter of supply, supply, supply, this and that, transport, etc. Now we have information that oil processing is less than 1%. How is that possible now, and it wasn't possible two, three or four years ago? So, I think that one such warning to INA as a state-owned firm can still be a strong message to all others who want to endanger or intend to endanger the safety and health of people because of their profits and their profits. We as a Parliament should do it. And there's something else I want to tell you about the report, the minister mentioned. Once again, when it comes to these epidemiological findings and the medical part of the report, there is again the impression that there is something he wants to hide. I beg you, I'm not an expert that I could say in methodological terms what that report should look like, but it shows me if it goes with data for Sisak-Moslavina County, and not for the town of Sisak to cover up the real truth. In this county only two cities have some kind of Sisak and Kutina industry, there is a prehistoric agriculture left, and that is why we are talking about what is a serious problem. Let's not divulge that with general county data. And secondly, watch the data, we have 2000, 2001. Nothing's going on. The town of Sisak and the Republic of Croatia are balanced when it comes to the incidence of lung cancer, but then something happens in 2002. Suddenly, the rate of lung cancer in Sisak is not by 2% higher, not by 12%, but by 24% higher than in other parts of Croatia. It's out of this table if I hadn't gone to recalculate myself, they wouldn't have seen it. When only these three years are taken, and we don't know what happened in 2005 and 2006, and I guess we'll know. We need to see what the trends are like. So, I ask you this report will not have the right weight and there can be no real basis if we in any way conceal the truth, even with such statistics. In any case, I support the inclusion in this plan as in the working group and the representatives of the eco-social association that has regained consciousness and I would say the level of recognition of the problem to a higher level in the town of Sisak and I think it is their place because apparently civil society has a function and a role it cannot do, which no one can compensate for regardless. So we support the report but as initial. And one more thing, please, by the end of the term, let's make another one somewhere in the autumn to see which direction things are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86925	For the HSS club, the esteemed representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86926	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We, when we started this debate at the HSS Club, concluded that we would get a report in no case wanted to weigh how much this government or former government did more or less for Sisak and Sisak County. We just wanted it to be one motive, to move even more forward and try to solve the problems we've known to be present for many years. However, we treat our loved ones a few times, and we also treat our loved ones in a way that pushes our head like a noose into the sand, and that is not good. It is good to talk openly about problems, even if they are such a character as air in Sisak and Sisak County. The main reason for this request was the fact that 51 times in 2005 the average daily concentration of sulphur dioxide was exceeded and the sulphur hydrogen 63 times, while in 2006, sulphur hydrogen exceeded the round number 100, and we know that the excesses of sulphur dioxide must not be higher than 3 times during one calendar year, and sulphur hydrogen must not be more than 7 times. Here we have received a detailed report in the title, but I am unusually sorry that there is no direct relationship between what we have stated in the conclusion and the causes that have just created such a situation and the measures that have taken to prevent this from happening in the future. I heard something today that got me worried on the board by the president of the eco-society where he said the situation was better this year and it would be even better because we moved the limit values up. To be honest, I didn't follow through bringing in sublegal acts means regulations and regulations. However, we have heard assurances that these limits are more tolerated because they allow us even legal provisions if we test our laws with what is in the practice of the European Union. However, as a result, I could probably talk to this report about living well in Sisak because the quality of air on the Croatian average, unless you are below average happiness, so you find yourself among the 300 people who die of cancer, because yet in this area 7% more than the average of Croatia dies of cancer. And if we look at lung cancer, then in this area 13% more people die from lung cancer compared to the average of Croatia. However, it is interesting that Sisak-Moslavina County is below Croatia's average if we follow the cancer records. She's in seven places. But it's equally interesting that according to other criteria, when we look at what mortality is, it's completely different. I believe that's one of the reasons why we didn't get the data on illnesses in 2005 and 2006. I think that's the main lack of this report. I hope you couldn't use a word or sentence the probability that you'll get cancer due to air pollution in Sisak is low, but the probability that you'll die of cancer in Sisak is high. That's just what this report says. Disease below the national average, mortality is much higher than the national average. However, what I would be interested in is it possible and would it be good why we do not inform the public of the incidents? Is it possible to do this via the radio station or should all Siščeni be in front of automatic devices every second or should they be on the web pages to track it through the ministry? I wonder what would happen if an incident of catastrophic proportions occurred in Sisak. Are we going to wait an hour, two hours, three hours to shut down the data on the device how the overrun is beyond the limits? Do we have a plan for such exceptional situations? And do we have a plan on how the inspection will act when it happens? Look, we didn't see that from this report. I'd like to be calm so that I know that such possibilities are assumed to happen. And that there's a plan for interventions on how we're going to act in that case. It's also not good in the report that we're talking about the annual levels of concentration of harmful substances. But things happen a day. Things are actually a hundred days a year, and often they're minutes. It's a lot of times in seconds. This also tells us the case of Martinović and the Karlovac brewery in Karlovac, where it was a set of unfortunate circumstances, though. But that's why it's not possible in Sisak to have a complex of clumsy and unfortunate circumstances, an unfavourable rose of winds. And what about after that? After that, we'll probably find out there's someone else's criminal responsibility. After that, we'll probably find that there's been a cover-up so far. And how some authorities and some state institutions may have acted wrong. What comes out of the report, I think it's important, is too much responsibility for local self-government units. That's where I would just disagree with my colleague Shirtz if they could bear that first burden of responsibility because they also have a monitoring organisation on them. And the worst part about them is funding. They've got the tracking funding on them. I have here an agreement that has been concluded by Sisak-Moslavina County, the town of Sisak and the city of Petrinja and they have decided to buy the necessary devices to monitor air quality in Sisak-Moslavina County and follow the same. For that, they singled out 639 thousand 514 kuna together. And I also have a decision on the joint financing of the project by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which has been allocated to them to extend the area air quality monitoring network 170 thousand and 800 kuna. Gentlemen, if we can give 500 million kuna a year for plastic packaging, then we can probably give Sisak to the state institutions more than 170 thousand kuna a year. I believe it is precisely that there is too much burden on cities and counties and that there is a limit because their financial opportunities are modest, you would not now elaborate the budgets of cities, municipalities and counties. But it is absolutely certain that the Environmental Protection Fund should intervene here just as much as contaminants. We found in the report and an interesting fact, so I quote: "A temporary air quality monitoring station set up by the Sisak oil refinery based on a solution of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has begun at Galdovo. The Sisak refinery is required in that location to build an automatic measuring station by April 2007. "years." By the way, do we have to ask the minister if this is the same station that's listed in the conclusions where we also say the INA has to do it? I assume it's the same because the conclusions also make it mandatory for INA to build an automatic station at Galdovo's location. My question is very simple. If there is such a possibility that the Ministry of Environmental Protection will issue a warrant, a solution to the polluter to make it become a source of air quality, which is why we haven't done it before. We probably could have, probably had to, not only for Sisak but for all other locations where air pollution is too great for us and in any case for those contaminants for which we have been confidently aware for years that they are harmful to their environment. I'm afraid the medical report we received in scurvy was not delivered to the Assembly because of the information you would have heard from him. I have some information, they're shocking. I'll say, I got them from the source of a nearby ministry. That's what they say. According to the registered hospitalizations due to acute upper respiratory tract infections and chronic lower respiratory system disease from the town of Sisak, Sisak-Moslavina County and Croatia during 2001 and 2005 the following is visible. In the town of Sisak, we are registering a 121-year increase to 239 hospitalizations." So there's an index of 197 almost twice. In Sisak-Moslavina County, there is an even bigger increase, from 441 per thousand to 173. That's index 266. So over twice, or over two and a half times. Interesting information for Croatia as well. In the same period in Croatia, the increase from 16 thousand 438 to 17 thousand 478 or index is 106, only 6%. Well, here's what I did. I say, it was obtained from sources close to those sources that should have informed us, so if it's incorrect, let it be denied. I believe it's not incorrect. Croatia concerning upper respiratory tract and chronic disease infection index 6%, in Sisak-Moslavina County 266. So, in the 260-higher index. What is good in this report are the conclusions that still improve the situation, but we could probably do even more to improve this, so I suggest that the minister consider that the conclusions would require that the deadlines for modernisation be reduced, of course the INA is competent but there are probably no more financial constraints. We heard that INA was in charge of a billion euros precisely because of investments, and apparently those restrictions no longer exist. There are probably no organisational or personnel restrictions, so it would be good to consider the possibility of cutting deadlines not only in Sisak but also in Rijeka. It's a good thing we've involved the organizations in the task force. It is good that we will deliver the reports every three months to the Assembly Committee, but it would also be good for those most interested in it and that is the town of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County to receive the same reports. It's only a few kunas more paper costs and I suggest that it be distributed in that way. But what is very important if not the most important one as an epilogue of this report is the plan of action to take measures to mitigate the consequences of my health when it comes to cancer patients. That's where the environmental polluter should be more involved, those people should be helped. This association should probably be co-financed by all other citizens' associations. And I propose and beg the minister since she here obviously represents two ministries that when she comes to us in December of this year and I think she can do so before the Health Ministry report to create a complete picture of the state of health in that area, especially as regards cancer disease with an emphasis on air-induced cancer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86927	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86928	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think that today, indeed, in this introduction in the discussion of clubs, a lot has been said about the problem of air and the environment in the city of Sisak and today it was also the Committee on Environmental Protection that had a good debate on this subject. I don't think it should be repeated today why it's been decades in the refinery of the oil in Sisak that's been detected here as one of the main contaminants has not been invested at all in modernization. I'll remind you of the last investment and it was 1986. I think this is a report that the Ministry and the Government have instructed us that it still gives a complete overview of the rules of activities of measures and plans to modernise the refinery but also an assessment of the state of air quality in Sisak, that it does not hide anything but is really speaking in a realistic way that is happening in Sisak. We didn't expect to discuss it here for every day. I must tell you that unfortunately, in the city of Sisak, there is an increasing number of people dying from lung and bronchial cancer but also from another disease, which is a leukemia that is caused by at least what experts say by benzene pollution. He's carcinogen-acting right on the blood. So it is this one fear and fear that has also caused the citizens' attention, as well as the civil associations themselves, to engage in solving these problems. However, I must point out here and this report is visible, from reports given by Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County that they have taken a whole series of measures somewhere since 2000, 1999. and warned the INA refinery in Sisak about what it does to produce such oil as it produced. I must tell you that INA, several times I have been a participant of such conversations on behalf of the county and the city of Sisak. Every time INA took note of this, it deafened itself, made operational plans, some kind of short-term measures. But unfortunately, here until 2004, when the government had also seriously involved the Ministry in solving this problem, I would say to increased inspections and some orders did not do anything about it. I must tell you that what some colleagues today have pointed out is that the big problem and measurement of air pollution in Sisak is that we in Sisak measure the quality of air on two classic measurement stations. There's one in Caprag himself, so the settlement that's under the chimney of the refinery, the thermal power plant that's the most endangered, I'd say in the town of Sisak. That's two classics. The second is in the very center of the city on Stjepan Street and Antun Radić. Since 2005 air quality has also been measured from the beginning of January at an automatic measuring station in the composition of a state network financed by the Ministry in Caprag. And now, from this year on, in the Gald settlement, a temporary automatic until a complete automatic station is built. Why Gald? Because citizens and environmentalists also noticed that because of the rose winds of pollution, therefore the frequent wind that carries it to this suburban settlement, and they can tell you that health indicators have also shown that a large number of cancers have been placed in this particular area and that it is now a temporary station but the automatic station is being installed. My colleague, Pacek, has now said that it could have been ordered before by INA to finance one such station. And I wonder why the Ministry and up to two thousand here are the fourth, the fifth didn't have the former Ministry ordered the same lift of such a measuring station. But I have to tell you all that there's no problem in the city center with pollution. The air in the city center has never crossed those limits and has never been on such an alarming level as in Caprag, Galdov, Hrastelnica or in the edges of the town of Sisak. Which, which should be pointed out, and what I can say as a contribution to this debate as a Christian, I must tell you that it is important to point out that the inspection and we all see it in the city and based on the frequent objections and demands of citizens and the City's headship itself, the County Headship has been very often going out on the ground lately, implementing its measures. Now we've also seen in this report that even 15 times she came out, that five times or six were the six times that were caused by just over-polluting incidents, that the refinery took the inspection's warning seriously. I, too, told the Committee that I was surprised by the refinery of Sisak that she had so easily understood this problem all these years because Rafineria was one of those economic organizations that first had a service of environmental protection at all. But they were more concerned about my knowledge of wastewater protection from the INA, which also, here on the Committee, I also spoke of, worryingly. Sisak is a town on three rivers. The bath is, and potentially from it and Sava because just the way out of these wastewaters is almost at the very mouth of the Cup in Sava is also at risk. And as my colleague Ledinski said on the Committee, it was recorded not only on people I think are more important in this case, but also on plants or in forests that are also at risk in this area. It is important to note that in September 2006, the modernisation and reconstruction of the plant's clause to be completed by August of this year and according to what is happening at the site and daily passing by that site, the Sisans believe that it will be completed. That the smell of rotten eggs that is sometimes especially in the morning will be impossible, will stop, and the dynamics of the execution of the planned modernisation of the Sisak Refinery will be intensified. We believe it is for the first time serious, as far as I'm concerned, this table of ministers in this report speaks precisely about years and deadlines for completion. Otherwise, INA has always submitted a report from or up to 2010, it may be 2011. This is the first time INA has given concrete and I mean, I'm not an expert in this area, but real time frames in which it can end up modernizing. I also believe that detailed monitoring of the epidemiological situation in the city of Sisak is still needed in view of the monitoring of the pain from malignant tumours. Here, counterpart Pecek noted that he has some documents from the county of Sisak. And I saw today with our deputy mayor that she has completed this study that talks about the impact of the environment on the public health, so I hope that she will be discussed at the County Assembly and the Headship by the month of June because so in the County Assembly it was spoken to us by the council. So the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environmental Protection will also get concrete indicators that will not be preliminary. So it will not be those who have been collected as the minister has said by some other method but that these data will indeed be processed from which this state will be visible. And I finally support this, and I said to the Committee in particular what the Ministry has accepted that the representatives of the Sisak Eco Action Association also enter this task force and this regular information with a quarterly report that INA will deliver to the Government or the Government will also later deliver to the Parliament and the units of local and regional self-government. And there's something else I need to say here. I don't know if it's known, but in the town of Sisak, for some time, our residents can get word of pollution through the media, and even when you open the website of the Evening List on those regional sites when the town of Sisak is then you get the same value of the smoke gas emissions every day for the day before the public. So the public is increasingly familiar in the city of Sisak about this problem which is very good. Here I think this report should be accepted as complete and well and that, that this report has also triggered debate in the INA and the seriousness of INA to the problem that is evident in Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86929	Thank you. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86930	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I agree with all the predecessors who have pointed out that this is one solid, encouraging and particularly necessary report, that this is a good starting base for here and this quality debate that we had here in the assembly, but also today's committee. It is visible from this report that all measures and efforts have been taken, as well as the activities of all entities both in Sisak, so from direct contaminants to local self-government units, so city, county, ministry and others who participate in this chain. But despite all the efforts made by the special ministry, I think we can all conclude together that the measures taken did not give the desired result, it was not possible to do what was finally and was the goal, and I would say the wish first of all to the people of Sisak and the surrounding area. It is a better and better life, better quality and better health care for all employees of both INA and other companies that exist and work in the Sisak area and all citizens. But it's also obvious that this kind of activity is significantly disrupted and plant-like, but also animal-like in this area. We've said very precisely today who's the main culprit. Despite all the efforts that have been made so far and which INA is taking, it cannot be excluded from the guilt and cannot be justified by this extensive prolonging of the commitments undertaken with the aim of addressing the burning problems to protect the environment. I'll do a little replicating maybe a fellow Shirtz. It is not possible for the City of Sisak or Sisak-Moslavina County, regardless of the legal powers, to do something spectacular in this area, because it is visible from reports that we received from the city, but also from the county that made all the efforts especially the City of Sisak during the past period. But unfortunately, all these efforts remained at the cry level. It's only when the lawsuit is filed because it's obviously the last measure that, with the efforts of course, the Ministry and the inspections and the others. Only after the lawsuit was filed in February of this year did something more important begin to change in respecting and respecting the deadlines and obligations taken by INA. Of course, I also know because I live a little bit further downriver how hard it is to have a ruined economy, to invest in new technologies, and to save jobs, so he's afraid and so did fellow Vidovic, on behalf of the club, worried about all those who have jobs or in the refinery or in some other job safety companies, was obviously ahead of the quality of life of all fellow citizens. And no matter what we may ask for justifications in the past time period when INA is concerned and ask for easy circumstances to say so, we cannot in any way exclude them from what they have consciously done. I don't want to generalize and accuse INA as a system. But apparently there are individuals in the administration or in the technological process who had to take care of respect for legal obligations and legal solutions. In fact, this report, as part of the inspection measures, is also very clear that Sisak refinery is forbidden to process in its raw oil technology process with sulphur content greater than one per cent. More or less INA followed these orders, or it is said in this report that it has been found that, that INA has processed oil with an average sulphur content of less than one per cent. But that's the second absurd, which is that the energy used to work contained more than one percent of the sulphur. So we're not going to process oil, but as an energy source, we're going to use something that is also or perhaps more harmful than this existing one. In the proposal for measures and in previous discussions, we said what we expect from everyone in this chain, and I, in particular, ask the ministry to consistently and literally ask everyone and require all respect for the legal solution reached and the legal levels reached. Of course, with the aim of further improving and raising standards in this regard, primary consideration is given to human health regardless of who is a large or small subject. Segesta, Siscia or I don't know any of those companies that are there or a big system like that and it's not just in Sisak. Today, we talked about the River, and we will likely have to think about what follows very quickly in Slavonski Brod. Namely, if we are aware from this report and all of what we heard today and from the INA representatives that such a large system as INA has problems with maintaining the technological level and protecting nature in general, then it is easy for us to understand what can happen to us in Slavonski Brod and downstream can happen when the oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship begins in a relatively short period of time. According to the information I have, the pre-contract was signed. It is a transaction with a Russian company asking Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska to allow them to continue production with existing technology over the next four years. Of course, we expect the Ministry, from the Croatian Government, to ensure that, in accordance with the positive rules of law, maximum protection, regardless of who produced and who was polluter and on which side, one of the appeals that all the necessary actions and activities are already being carried out in a preventive manner so that the increase in harmful emissions in this area will not occur, or would not happen. The mortality rate in Sisak is quite high and is indeed in the upper half of the units of the regional self-government in Croatia. It's 436.7 per 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, we in these conditions, and when we don't have such strong and large contaminants, we have a higher mortality rate. In the area of Brod-Posavina County, this rate is 440.7. If we heard, and I really believe that we are all aware of the harmfulities of such pollutants then we can only expect that mortality not only in the area of Brod-Posavia County but also in neighbouring countries will be significantly higher. So, with the goal of going to the event I once again support, of course, this report I appeal and ask that we take all the activities in time to protect all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86931	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86932	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a small replica of my colleague Raven. I hope I don't cause a big debate. I can understand you when you respect the problems of our local self-government units that they do not have to have such obligations as to ensure environmental protection. However, it is their constitutional obligation. It's their legal obligation. They, if they cannot do so in our laws and in the Constitution, clearly prescribed in which way they can seek help in institutions above themselves that the will of local self-government units is implemented and provide the citizens with the protection of the environment needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86933	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86934	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shirac, I fully agree with you. It is a general principled attitude, the principle of subsidiarity, but in this report we are talking about a specific case of Sisak's city at least based on what we received as a contribution to today's debate, so the report delivered by the City of Sisak but also the county very clearly said that in '83. for years, he has taken significant activities to address this burning problem. INA hasn't since yesterday and the problem of pollution hasn't been since yesterday. It was not a legal obligation at the time, but the awareness of the despair of responsibility to its fellow citizens was clearly highlighted. The city of Sisak has asked the INA to respect the deadlines. I am sure that all the leaders of that unit of local self-government also took care of the possibilities of INA as well as other companies in the area. But when their appeal stayed nowhere, when he didn't come to terms with it, and here in this report is the 21st item they took to the INA and the Resolute Ministry was not to ask for protection from the ministry, to seek protection from the government and to sue the INA for such strange, unfair and unfair behavior. The same was done by Sisak-Moslavina County. I, in that sense, went into microposition, of course, not by any chance exempting all units from responsibility, wherever they are for what they are prescribed by law and what not only because of the law but because of the interest of the quality of life of their fellow citizens must do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86935	Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86936	Dear Mr. President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few words in this remote time about this point that we've talked a lot about today on the Committee on Environmental Protection. Here's two months ago we discussed the same subject, then the truth with not this complete data initiated by my club of representatives. I'm glad now that after this time we've still got indicators that talk about what and what the situation is and what's going on in Sisak, in Sisak County related to air pollution. It is evident that there have been over-measures in many times, over-pollutions in practically excesses that should not otherwise occur. But in a newspaper report during a lawsuit reported by the mayor that he filed against the INA, it was said that sometimes such a smell is that people close windows, that they can't stand it. That's the truth I believe. But what about the plants that can't close the windows, they live in nature, and they keep putting up with the pollution. And that's exactly what I want to say here today, and that's what I did last time in the debate if you remember talking and showing the indicators that exist in Croatia that have been going on for 20 years, and they're related to the dryness of needles and leaves in the trees, i.e. monitoring the damage to the forest. I have to say that I know a lot about this subject because as a student, I used to set test sheets in Germany while I was in practice and then this method was applied to Croatia and followed as such. So let me say a few words about it, since these indicators have become alarming in recent years. I have the latest data for 2005. In 2006, we expect to have them presented within a month so I can't present that information, but I believe that it will confirm this condition that it is. And the situation is next. The damage especially deteriorated in 2005 and increased by 13%. Before that, the damage to the trees in the area was relatively low, even below the average for the Republic of Croatia. But now with this sudden increase in one year, it is approaching the average and the question is next year, and since there was an excess, and it is visible from these indicators that we heard here in the report, that the average will be higher than it is for Croatia. What's symptomatic is that the most damaged are our main species and that oak watermelon is in the swimming pool and in fact when we talk about air protection and these pollutions in Sisak, we can't just look at the narrow part of Sisak, part of one city quarter, the other part, but we have to look at a significantly wider area of the county, and probably as far as these pollutions are coming. And therefore, these data that the Institute of Forests in Jastrebarski and which are regularly published each year are evident that the increase in leaf damage in the shell oak has increased from 16.8% to 46.1%. These are the levels of pollution, the damages that are being monitored. What's interesting is that practically of that data, means all the plants that exist in the species of nut oak, 7.8% is already practically dry. These are the degrees 3 and 4 which we foresters call droughts and who have to regularly pull themselves out, they are extracted when at that stage 3b degree are practically that something more of them can be used that if they stayed a year longer they would practically be worthless as wood mass in that part. And it's the oak tree that's our most valuable species, and when we see that practically almost 8% of these trees have dried up in the last two years, it's one piece of information that's very alarming, and basically that means that every 11th, 12th tree must have been pulled out of the forest. You know what it means when in one population 10 or every 11 has to go out. This means that it's an alarming state, and that's exactly what the monitoring shows today on both the Environmental Protection Committee and here in this report that mentions something going on there. This thing that's going on is not good, it means pain is sudden and all measures must be taken to prevent it. There is certainly a need to count on the economic damage that occurs for special Croatian forests in that part, but also for the private forests that are there and it is very easy to calculate you know. In that part of the INA and the forest are also a state-owned company but if one does damage to another, forests could seek compensation and pollution damage, and INA was found to be the main contaminant. It does not mean some acid rain like in Gorski Kotar when we have a case to come from Austria, so we do not know if Slovenia, Austria, Germany is from where we can't do any damage, but we could even do it here. Furthermore, the next data that suggests that 38.3% of the trees are damaged at the level of the 2nd damage, shows that next year or so, we will continue to be in a position that these 38% of the oak trees are also in this category 3 and 4, meaning the droughts that will have to be cut. The measures to be taken must therefore be taken without delay and without delay. And I'm glad that in that part and the town of Sisak and the county no matter who's in power there, the different options, found common forces and especially this ecological association that have warned about problems, that they've practically raised the public and that we're here and thanks to this report that was provoked two months ago by the HSS club, they still got the information that is true and that tells us about what and how it happened. When we compare this data that I have related to the damage to the forest in that area, then I'd like to say that these data were not that way ten years or more ago. I have here the data that I've taken out over the last 12 years, so I have, let's say, let's say that the data in '98 were far more favourable both in 2000 and 2001 that we noticed more significant deviations in 2005. So that's a network of 4x4 kilometers, so every 4 kilometers a grid is one point of control that is regularly monitored, and that's exactly what this data that we've heard here today is that these excesses were before. The plant may react a little later and then the first year was not noticed, but in the next one, the next one came to that. And it actually has to warn all of us that what's happening around us affects all of us, not just people. The biggest problem is when a number of human diseases occurred and everyone reacted, but my fellow foresters regularly follow it through the institute and these data are known to the public. They are regularly published at our meetings and present themselves to the public. But you see, no one was worried about what 8% of the shell oaks were droughts, but now that it's been seen that the disease is in humans, then we all got up and made noise no matter where, in the city, in the county, environmental associations or not. Therefore, all such data that exist from certain professions should be respected in the future in a similar manner in other areas and thus could be prevented from becoming larger excesses and from being kept secret. And that is why I would suggest that, in the conclusions when the ministry makes the following conclusions, I do not know whether in this meeting or in the next, it is not only about human health but also about the health of the plant and animal world that surrounds us, that these data are not limited only to the town of Sisak but to the county and beyond, and then we will be able to properly and properly monitor everything that is happening in this area, and especially in this area we want, as far as I know, that there are initiatives to become some kind of regional park in that area, etc. With the degree of pollution that it is certainly not going to be a good proposal. Now, since my time is running out, forgive me if I've been too long and if I've only looked at this topic from one point of view regarding the protection and pollution of the forest that is connected, closely linked to the pollutants that are being released into the air in the city of Sisak. But believe me, it's a serious threat to nature and to all of us who live here. Now that it's over, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86937	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86938	Here's a very short one. Mr. President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, here's just a short one. In fact, offered a little bit by this committee work still, I had to say something. In this quality report, really, if we read well-intentioned, we can see everything. But if we politicize as we have politicized, then everything changes together. It turns out that now people are dying in Sisak, they've never died before. It was particularly tragic when the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Slavko Linic, blamed the INA for everything, and I was the chairman of the INA Supervisory Board, so I wanted to say that it was 2001. The government did something less likely to be people, less would die and less would be sick than today, but here's the government in 2004. Six months after the government was constructed, it has already decided that INA must be refined, that it must be really modernised. This modernization was slowed down, and because of the unfortunate sale of INA 25 plus 1 percent where the mole could have been unconscious, it could have really stalled. So, it's not the only pollution, we've all had pollution through cement stores, through asphalt bases, there's all this stuff. Therefore, we have all had these problems and I must commend the ministry which has already been through, through, environmental protection, which, through the collection of all possible useful raw materials, has cleared the environment quite well. So that 500 million kuna is extremely good, it's well spent and let's look at the little environment, the environment is no longer what it was. So, let's accept the report, press the INA as much as possible, the inspection does it well, the inspection is always available unlike some of the misinformations we heard from the eco group there, so according to this, we support the report and in the hope that everything together will go as quickly as possible, and these old refineries, cement plants, which some asbestos factories and so on, it's not really easy to liquidate because of their jobs, and I think it's going to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-19-0.u86939	Thank you. Minister? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, Proposer Đurđe Adlešić and after the debate in 15 votes on the points discussed. Report on air pollution measures taken from the Sisak oil refinery in the period 2004 to February 2007. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The report on air pollution measures taken from the Sisak oil refinery in the period 2004 to February 2007 with the proposed measures is hereby adopted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that every 6 months, in exceptional cases and within a short time period, it shall submit a report to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament on the results of the proposed measures. Please vote. The result? With 85 for, 3 against, 1 abstentioned, 3 abstentions, 1 against the proposed conclusion.
