ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, there is a report before you this year on the implementation of the National Strategy and the fight against drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006. In accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with all the competent central authorities of the state administration has developed how you know the new National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse for the period 2006 to 2012. Following that strategy, the Action Plan was also developed from 2006 to 2009. In accordance with the same plans of the Member States of the European Union. This report shows some progress that does not need to be fooled in, the success shown in one part is already clear, but needs to be clearly pointed out that in the Republic of Croatia there is an upward trend in the number of people treated for the abuse of intoxicated drugs, drugs known for many years. As well as new drugs on the market as well as completely unknown new substances found almost daily. It must also contribute to the geographical position of the Republic of Croatia as a country of transit between the European Union and the countries of the Third World. Therefore, efforts such as the establishment of a register of better quality recording of new addicts as well as relapsers can, with certain statistical certainty, determine trends and directions and see a ray of hope in the fight against this modern monster. We can see a final decrease in time from the first consumption to the start of treatment and in other displays and guidelines. It is not a revolutionary progress, but only a signal that a constant and persistent struggle can get results with mandatory including the whole of society in this struggle. The report showed in 2006 that 7000 and 427 people were treated, mostly opiates addicts, which is an increase of approximately 11% compared to 2005. For the first time, 2,000 people were treated with a share of those who used opiates less than 50%. 13% of addicts in 2006 appear more to be the first treatment. The above-mentioned register, run by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, has a total of 23 thousand 990 people treated with addiction. We are pleased to learn from that register that in 2006, 15% of the less addicts died compared to 2005. This data may be caused by the adoption of guidelines for the use of substitutive therapy with Methadone and Kuprenorphine as well as the inclusion of the latter on the list of HZZO medicinal products. Let me say that in this House of Highs, there is a political frequency for the decriminalisation of light drugs as one of the measures that has been mentioned and in the debate on the previous report. I'm personally sorry about those initiatives. It is not because I believe that drug addicts should be imprisoned or can be stegmatized for life, but because of a message addressed to young people who experience political contention as a system of conflict of opinion that leaves the possibility of easy drugs and not a real problem, but problems imposed. And when we're clearly fighting it today, let's call it legal addiction, smoking, proving all the harmfulness of that 100-year vice on the other hand, we're thinking and sending a message that we need to loosen up on, say, easy drugs. There are no easy and heavy drugs, but there is addiction. Society is mature for a quality assessment of real addiction and society is also mature today instead of talking about easy and difficult drugs to see how to help in the most meaningful way. It is already seen in this report where the monitoring is seen as being considered by the State Youth Attorney's Office to be relevant in most cases to impose an obligation of advisory treatment in the Office for Prevention of Dependence or in the Youth Service rather than to conduct a criminal conduct. The fight against drugs must be in the service of young people through prevention and assistance, not in the service of daily politics, or do not give God the program of election campaigns. Progress as modest as possible and as visible from this report is solely due to better coordination of all levels, from county levels, county commissions to prevention systems and state-level addiction treatments. The consistency of the application of action plan measures leads slowly but safely to coordinated action at all levels from improving the system of treatment of addicts. More than most drug seizures. More active involvement of local and regional administrations in the prevention of drug abuse and preventive educational activities has been throughout the system, especially in the school system. The constructive debate that is expected in this one report and in this one problem will certainly put many doubts but I invite you all together to send this constructive debate only a clear message from this House of the High for all young people, which is: Drugs do not! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96135	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96136	Thank you, Mr. President. So the secretary of state said that in the previous point, it was about legalizing easy drugs. Mr. Secretary of State, I did not advocate the legalisation of easy drugs, but rather for a different way of punishing addicts for the purpose and purpose of setting up the best measures for society and for them the most effective. So I don't speak a single word for legalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96137	Did the secretary of state say you stood up?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96138	I was saying, I was the only one talking about drugs, so it can be interpreted as being the secretary of state as saying that I'm in favour of legalization, which Mr. President, you know that's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96139	Yeah. It's a misunderstanding. Family, youth and sports committee? Work, social policy and health care? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Prime Minister of the Government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Associates and Fellow Representatives. As in previous years, we have a very high quality report on the implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, as observed from the data aspect, on the basis of which the situation in the area and the system of drug abuse can be assessed. Our satisfaction with the report does not mean that we are satisfied with the state or functioning of the system. Twenty-four thousand registered addicts are not the final number. The method of assessing the actual number can be different and is not consistent with professional circles, but it is undeniable that the number is far greater than the one registered and problem we have long ago has become worrying. The construction of the anti-abuse system was launched in 2001 by the adoption of the Law on the control of drug abuse, and in the 2005 report we could read that the construction of the system was completed that year. And then we thought, and today we can only confirm that the finding was too brave because the system has all the shortcomings that need to be fixed, and then when the deficiencies are removed, it is necessary to establish its almost perfect functioning in order to give as many better results as possible. The desired results of the system could only be based on hope if its previous policy aimed at preventing addiction. In order to increase dependence in the Republic of Croatia, the professional public considers the most significant influence of sociological factors of which is the economic situation in the first place, then the increase in crime and the availability of drugs. By improving the social situation of individuals and supporting families and young people in general, and in particular by providing support to socially excluded and marginal social groups, protection from drug abuse will also be strengthened. So without a successful economic, social and family policy, there is no successful fight against addiction because it only comes down to ceasefire in terms of treatment consequences. We believe that today there is no successful economic, social, or family policy, and the system is missing and incomplete and therefore we have a condition that we have that can't alleviate or information that more addicts are involved in the system of treatment. Today we have a national strategy against addiction, we also have an action plan, and funding is needed for the implementation of the activities. Last year, 63 million kunas were spent from the state budget, but the report will read, quote: "Some holders of the implementation of the national strategy and measures and activities of the Action Plan to combat drug abuse still do not have within the state budget a particularly secure means for that purpose already being financed as part of regular activities which make it difficult to display the amount of funds spent for the above-mentioned purpose" finished quote. What does that mean? This means that we do not know reliably how much money has been spent and we do not know what purpose it was spent on. The use of funds is partly non-transparent, and where spending is non-transparent there is no control of the spending, and neither is it possible to assess the justification of the success of the invested nor control of the abuse of the use of these funds. The rapporteur says the largest amount of funds spent is recorded from the position of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. A total of 20 million 786 thousand 570 kuna. We ask how many of these funds are from the budget, and how many of these are from the lottery. You can't tell from this report. Of these 20 million, 17 million 361 million have been invested to finance the activities of prevention and treatment of addiction in the county public health services while a total of 3 million 425 thousand kunas have been spent from the position of the welfare administration, out of which 3 million 333 thousand kunas to settle the costs of accommodation of people dependent on alcohol, drugs or other intoxicating assets in social care institutions on the basis of concluded agreements on mutual relations. Well, we need to stay here for a while. In the national strategy, the importance of the therapeutic communities in withdrawal from addiction has been pointed out. For several years, the state budget built "Pulac" according to the 1997 decision, as a state commune to increase the capacity in the communes so as not to send our citizens abroad to communes. According to our knowledge it's invested somewhere, the data is different, but following the budget around 13 million kunas. Instead of opening the communal community, as envisaged both by the national strategy and by the action plan, the minister informs us through the press that he has self-initiatedly re-purposed the facility. So the minister himself changes the will of this Assembly manifested through the adoption of a strategy. He himself finds that the treatment communities are not so important for the withdrawal of addiction regardless of what the waist thinks differently. Since the construction of three or four more communes, as outlined in the strategy at hand, there is absolutely nothing. Obviously, he has a policy for which, in his opinion, he does not need to account for the press, neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor this Parliament. The minister of self-will and lack of will to combat drug abuse also comes to terms with the civil sector and therapy communities owned by associations. In the Ministry of Health, no entire professional is involved in the prevention of drug abuse. The national strategy points to the importance of the civil sector in curbing abuse, the development of the civil sector has been outlined, but instead we have a stagnation and a setback. Civil sector representatives have been seeking a meeting with the minister for more than a year to point out problems and jointly seek a solution, but the minister does not want to answer them. There's no time for them, nor is there a vice president of the government. What does such a relationship mean? Does this mean that the system suppresses the civil sector, although we do not have its replacement in the state sector, the number of treatment communities falls, and the number of drug addicts in them falls. Why is that? We claim because of the ignoring attitude towards the civil sector in which the therapeutic communities are, because we do not have states. This relationship is not only seen in coordination and communication, it is also reflected in the draft funding. With two associations, the state concluded a mutual relations agreement. For the realization of the psychosocial rehabilitation and working therapy programme of addicts, preparation for the return of rehabilitated addicts to society, for their accommodation and nutrition, the compensation of the state, etc. The chieftain. This happened long ago in 2001, and since then, the amount of the chieftain has not been increased by a single lip. The difference in the head of social care institutions in the civil sector and located in institutions in the state sector is also several thousand kunas per protégé. When we asked for a response to such disproportionateness, we are responsible for higher costs of accommodation in the state sector. Shouldn't the civil sector also be given the same quality service as in the state sector. We need them, and therefore those with whom the State has concluded a contract, the state must enable them to employ the appropriate fit, to create a financial basis for the implementation of the programme, which it has assessed to be of quality and to control whether it gives the expected results. Is in Croatia at all a school where it would be professional enough to carry out psychosocial rehabilitation, work therapy and prepare for the return of rehabilitated addicts to society. As far as we know, there's no such schooling. The civil sector is flexible and flexible. He is able to create capacities without investment in state money, but he cannot finance his work on his own from the collected donations because they are getting smaller and smaller. Our health minister has no time to discuss this, and the Office for the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, which is perceived as the most responsible in the system, is not responsible and this Assembly and Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy has made it necessary for the government to establish a status-enhancing office, to give him the necessary powers, but unfortunately, there is nothing to date. We don't actually have one central place to create and conduct a policy against abuse. This policy is driven to countless places, and the results are as they are. As with politics, the same situation is with funding. Money is divided into different places and such dispersion makes it difficult and impossible to control both its spending and its investment results. We wonder how much money was spent in vain. The answer to this question in such a hollow and incomplete system will not be obtained, the Committee and the Parliament commit to the Government to legal offices of the therapeutic communities in order to prescribe their powers, competences and responsibilities, in order to create a legal basis for their work and development, and to enable the state to evaluate the results of the work. Despite the conclusions, the health minister says not to allow the Law on Therapy Communities, nor does the one who proposed the profession, and supported the civil sector. Under pressure from the debates of parliamentary representatives in the second reading of the Social Care Act, a provision under which units of local and regional self-government, company, association or other domestic and foreign legal persons may provide care outside their own family and psychosocial rehabilitation services as a therapeutic community for drug addicts and occasional users of intoxicating drugs without establishing a home under the conditions prescribed by this Act. In this way, the therapeutic community is not legally regulated, there is no definition of what a therapeutic community is, there are no conditions under which it can be established because it is not prescribed anywhere, it does not know what its rights are and it does not know what its obligations are. In our oral explanation, we are told to apply home - related provisions. It is obvious that the minister does not know the specificities of the therapeutic community, and the opinion of the profession is not interested in him, so he can change the national strategy proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on his own initiative and accept this Assembly. Therefore, the report itself shows that part of the money intended to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs is spent inconsistencies that prevents control and evaluation of spent, that certain activities from the action plan and national strategy in the budget are not provided with money, that we do not have one place to create and fight the abuse of drug abuse and that there is no responsibility for the state with which no one is satisfied that the system through the Minister of Health ignores the civil sector as a significant factor in the system and does not allow it to advance and develop, but rather encourages stagnation and vice versa to not build public communities, and the built-up health minister is self-initiately committed against the political will of both the Government and this Assembly. Noting that there is no adequate and successful economic, social and family policies to prevent addiction, then there is only one question left. Whether he truly wants to prevent or at least stop the monster of addiction, whether he wants to help addicts return to normal life, or whether the overall system of fighting drug abuse is just an ordinary decor that manages capital with a drug market acquired on the lives and health of the unfortunate. In a system that is fully decorated, in which the self-will of individuals works, there is no successful fight against addiction, but it is very suitable for some for various manipulations and abuses of lack of self-benefit. The Croatian Peasant Party's club will support this report, noting that it supports the report as a collection of data, but we are not satisfied with the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96141	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96142	She incorrectly stated that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Family, the defender, intergenerational solidarity, has no hearing for the civil sector. From the report is visible, where the Ministry of Health and Social Care is described, where, for example, in the programme of reducing damage harm eduction replacement syringes was conducted alongside the Ministry of Health, next to the Croatian Red Cross, and with associations Let, Terra, Help in Zagreb, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pula and Dubrovnik and a number of other examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96143	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96144	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague injured article 200 by correcting my exact quote, because I own a letter from the civil sector asking for a meeting with the health minister a year and a half ago, and he didn't answer them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96145	You cannot correct the incorrect allegations through the company's breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are a very skilled lawyer and a club representative of HSP, respected representative of Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96146	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. From this point on, this report still cannot tell who is involved precisely in the fight against abuse, including government and NGOs, so ministries, counties, local communities, communities, therapeutic communities, retro centres, associations. How much money is given to individual institutions, how they spend that money and how much they benefit from these institutions. So the only result here I admit, and that's the result I don't see anywhere here. As for the Croatian Party of Rights, we have long said that there are three main degrees in prevention. It is prevention, early detection and only then treatment or how statistics show in most of this report pure statistics. We're waiting for treatment. It's like what I said when you bring a kid in to play in the park, sand and there you find bits of glass and you know that your child will be cut on that glass. And then you'll find nice as good parents towels, bandages, water to wash that child at the end, and you'll show how good a parent you are. So remove the glass, there will be no cutting, there will not come to that at all. So the main thing is prevention. It's the primary education of children and parents. If we know that it all starts in the family and ends in the family and we know that it all starts in the family, then we need to turn that prevention on children and parents. Find a way to get primary school parents to come to school, learn everything about drugs, because there's more and more drugs, whatever they're saying to me. The lady who told me that her son asked her to massage his hand, that his arm hurt. I've never heard that hand hurt, that it should be massaged. The kid had three needle stings. The woman didn't know. She asked him, what is it? That's what I stabbed myself with. And she massaged him and only later did she find out it was heroin bites. So, the kid asked for help, and Mom couldn't recognize it. Well, gentlemen, yesterday morning that child was found dead in Lumbarda. So, as far as prevention and education are concerned, that's where we totally missed. 15 of them have died in Split, only this year. The parents didn't know. We fell again on prevention. Or when the lady from Split, whose child is the same this year, whose kid died, says she came to the bathroom, the door was open, the kid was taking heroin, the kid was using drugs, the kid was stabbing herself. I'm asking what she did? She says she closed the door because she didn't know how to behave. She didn't know anything about it. The kid died too, overdosed. So, kids are, parents have no idea. Our parents can tell us what they want. Parents have no idea. Kids in elementary schools have no idea. You can say whatever you want. I went to a few elementary schools. I asked the kids what the drugs look like. What's drugs? What did they see from the drugs? They have no idea. There's a child education here, but it should be unique for all schools. The City of Zagreb can't have this much, and other places especially islands have nothing. I'm sorry, but kids do drugs all over the place, all the schools. So, this child education, this parent education, it's completely understated. Then, early discovery. It's the same thing we advocate early detection and testing. So it's not just about getting kids kicked out of school, it's about helping those kids out. Because if children were tested for enrolment in the first grade of high school, they showed up clean, in the second grade, in the third grade, it turns out they were taking something. So that's just the beginning. Those kids have time to heal. Especially if he says here in this report, that heroin addict parents, most of them only find out after two to three years of drug abuse. That's when they find out their kids are on drugs. Gentlemen, these children are full-blooded addicts until then. So, as far as I'm concerned, and as far as we're concerned, the HSP is definitely testing on the school's enrollment. Just to help these children, to have time for these children's help. And only then is this treatment and this statistic. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is the most responsible for learning these children, especially primary school children get 2 million 958 thousand kuna. And if prevention is our top gentlemen, then the most money here should be gone. So we have to think about the kids, we have to think about the parents. The most money must go to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. There's no mention of a state commune here. There's talk of treatment, of various communities, of resociation. How? Those kids don't have schools. Those kids ain't got nothing to do. Why not the state commune? If we are already serious about fighting addiction, why not state communes where these children will be treated and also end some kind of trade, school? So that these kids are given some kind of security for the future, and then the kids might try harder to get rid of it. I said the same thing last time, and I haven't received a report yet, the state commune "Pulac" near the river. So far, 17 million kunas have been spent in it. Maybe someone here can answer me what's wrong with that state commune? Where? And why didn't 17 million kunas start? Is it in anyone's interest that the commune doesn't work, I don't know. But I'd like to know today if I were to be told about this state commune. Go on. This is where he says, "Sport versus drugs!" Where are those halls? Where are those halls where our kids are going to play? In those cities where the halls were built, they are rented. Kids can't get to those halls. Kids play outside on the streets. The kids are totally out on the street. But that's what kids tell me. That's what I'm told, that's what kids tell me the way they do, the way they play. And in the end, she would just say the same thing about the doctor and about methadone and other methods of treatment of addiction. There's no control mechanism, there's no anywhere. Somewhere, 20% of drug addicts who overdosed were overdosed with methadone. So there's no control. In this entire report, there should be some kind of control mechanism in the future. Then we know exactly what someone did, we know exactly who didn't do it and where it could be fixed. And by then there will be a report and statistics again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96147	SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96148	Thank you, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It really needs to be asked, as my predecessor pointed out, regardless of the reported number report, about statistics from which it would be concluded even if there was this light in this drug-king tunnel. Did the state actually capitulate in front of drugs? Is the fight against drug abuse adequate? Is even the National Strategy to control drug abuse adequate? And it's often said here, so when we adopted the National Strategy to combat drug abuse, we always talk about the consequences. We're talking about drug abuse. We're talking about small dealers, those street traffickers on the back of that pyramid line down there. On the hypotenuse. And no one touches the top. And things like this since 1998, so-called Criminal mini reform was introduced into our and legislative system, and then into a practical action that is absolutely unsatisfactory. We had an attempt in 2003, gentlemen of the HDZ now in power. You didn't want to vote for that law. And today we're here where we are. Protected by who? Drug lords, mobsters, drug dealers, they say they're respected citizens and sponsors. Whose and what I would not like to return to that period of the 1990s that our weeks have been written about, but certainly in my own reaction to it in our criminal legislation and from there many troubles and the entire prison system and inadequate fight against the repression of intoxicating drugs have been introduced into our criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. This was still in existence in the former state, there was no such act but in 1997 the law of 1.1.1998 brought into force the possession of drugs as a serious crime as a result of the state’s fight against drugs. And since then, we've had an eruption and an explosion and drug abuse, and the younger age of abuse, or the benefits of opiates. So obviously something's wrong. We need different procedures, but we're absolutely deaf to it and we meet up with some statistics eventually. It's not appropriate this way. Let's take a look at the Justice Department's little report. Our Penal Code has about 300 and some criminal acts with easing and exaggerating circumstances, therefore with qualified forms. There's about seven hundred incriminations somewhere. Here, this report also shows this because it repeats itself year by year by year by trend even increases. What does our repressive system do? Police and later criminal trial. Out of the total number of reported and later convicted 10%, 9.9 so almost 10% refers to drug abuse. Which then leaves the courts with something else to deal with in that percentage. Well, he's got 700 incriminatings. When will the second incrimination come? But drug possession, here we are very, very efficient, both the police and the judiciary. And it simply atrophied and showed the system, and made the system inefficient this way. In the total amount of criminality in the drug abuse crime, so over 75%, so now you've only got 78% on drug possession. And then you see what we do. We deal with children, victims who need to find out who gave them that chain. They're quiet there. They're getting some fines. Now I can't even get parole anymore because it's very dangerous, instead of going to be treated, that society shows where they belong, and then only if they don't go to treatment and misdemeanors to respond to stricter measures. No, they're very dangerous. These kids that someone's been beaten by one Extazy, they have to, this one added to the other, it's three years in prison without being able to ease the sentence. Of course, both the judiciary and the judicial authority have risen and declared against such solutions that are absolutely inadequate. As it is absolutely inconclusive in practice because it is not normal for you to see what we have, it is on the side of 44th, where the police give to themselves the authority which will be considered a minor social danger and whose son or daughter will be further referred to by the State's Attorney's office for processing and three years in prison, and to whom it will only please, in its own way, decide who will be exculpatory. And that's why we say in the report that we have a smaller number of reported and a smaller number of later accused and sanctioned because the police give themselves the right and authority of what you don't give to this High House as we often like to call it. Well, gentlemen, that's a great step forward, especially with that winged one. However, less has been said lately "Over the Parliament only God" etc. ... I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I can't help you here. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96149	It's about angels.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96150	So the absolutely wrong way to access this matter leads to this. The fundamental question here is how the drugs are coming to Croatia. Mr. Secretary of State, as drugs come to Croatia and how they have it, that's the question. That's a fundamental question. And until our basic national strategy asks that question as a fundamental question, we will deal with small things, forgive me, and these are even non-serious things in this way to approach such a really serious problem. We all know that just at the drug trade, especially during a certain period that happened to Croatia, not by its own fault, this job was booming. Many people today are thus not despised by this kind of thing, and there is no doubt that this is a work that deals with organised crime. Therefore, this kind of deception from this report is that there is no organized production of drugs or precursors. Well, in part, we from the SDP Club might agree that there is no organized production of drugs or precursors, at least in some expanded network, but that there are organised imports that are unequivocal. There's drugs in every place. And we need to stop looking at it or year after year. But then, we're not paid here to be surprised but to find solutions. And if we really think, these aren't politicizing things, but if we want to at least start solving this problem. So the correctness of the approach to this problem is not, are not the consequences of what a young man or youth finds to use, or to take drugs. Well, no one's saying they're not dangerous behavior but it's the least dangerous thing from whoever gave him the drugs, who got it and who usually, it's only the most dangerous thing for that victim. That's why we're claiming at the SDP Club that they're victims of first and foremost organized crime that we can never end. Here's the report here. It shows a small percentage, not 2%, and those in the middle scale will be covered by the hand of justice. They become untouchable, not catchable. If we want the right way, it is that on those who are victims of crime, it is most often that mole our colleague Ruža-Tomasic spoke of, spoke on behalf of the HSP Club. So, if we want to protect them, we have to hit the drug lords, the drug dealers, those producers, they're untouchable within this range. Because that chain can only be detected if those from whom they have acquired a medium, to the lowest level of conversation. But they keep quiet there because they don't want to be accused of organized crime in that chain. That's why we must release them as precious witnesses and as those who will discover. And in this way, also tell them that it's absolutely unacceptable social behavior, but that society until it grabs and closes its tentacles, and the borders of organised crime and drugs, that it wants to help them, but also to tell them that it's an absolutely unacceptable behavior, that it's harmful to them first of all, so it's going to criminally punish them, so it's going to give them a measure of treatment, we've had it all. You say, no, it's not good, they have to go to jail for three years. And then what do we have? Then we have this. And it remains inadequate, i.e. there is no inadequate response, in fact to something that we did not write here from where the drug comes from in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96151	Thank you. Five corrections. First, respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague is really surprised at everything, but I'm correcting her quote, and I quote, "No one touches the top of the drug.". While this government is working on prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, etc., your party leader, whom I cannot say that Mr. Milanovic, promotes smoking marijuana. And as for the capture of the mob, drug dealers and bosses, as I recall during your coalition government, you pardoned the dealers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96153	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96154	Ma'am, you're telling the truth, using and misusing the Rules of Procedure, which is how you hurt him, Article 209. ... During the term of office, the coalition government did not have a single dealer pardoned. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's the Ministry's proposal to refuse. You can check that out. Here you go, to check it out, if you don't believe it. And secondly, you don't know how to behave in the Croatian Parliament, so you've introduced the president of our party here. So, it's something absolutely inadmissible. .../The intruder can't be heard... I think the basis here is for us to learn decency.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96155	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96156	Therefore, it was a basic condition. ... You're only offended by the facts, so don't insult people. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Facts, gentlemen, facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96157	It's an explanation for correcting an incorrect quote, and this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Second, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić. ... It's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please, I'd start to miss my time, because I've got a lot of things to fix. My colleague said that according to this report, it's only met with statistics, with numbers, which is not true. This report must have numbers, it must have statistics but behind those figures and these statistics there is a huge work on drug prevention, on drug prevention and on all repressive measures. You also said, he says, according to this report we only deal with victims, children, and the top of the pyramid remains intact. Which is not true. According to all these indicators and what I am directly familiar with, we are dealing with victims and children in a preventive sense and in all the measures they are determined to do if they are caught dealing or using drugs. And the top of the pyramid has certainly been discovered in the last two years, the police have been teamed up with the people you fired, teamed up with funds, teamed up and found out and exposed many large chains and established huge amounts of drugs. And you say And you say, "Now it's [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96159	Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct the distinguished colleagues when she said that the Secretary of State, Mr. Golem, should know about the illegal imports of drugs. Mr. Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, I think someone else should know about illegal drug imports, given that you've been a minister for four years, and you're also invited to talk a little bit better about it, so you wouldn't have a show today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96161	Dear representative Zdranka Babić Petricevic. Next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96162	Mr. President, dear colleague. It is not a state, or state government that has capitulated in the fight against drug abuse, which has often been capitulated by the SDP, so thank God there has been capitalization when you are fighting for the decriminalization of light drugs and your path of regularity in the fight against this unfortunately masculine war is not good because it is in your genes, your first people are smoking so that they will then work not to smoke Croatian youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96163	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96164	209. The word gene is male and not gene, so it's said in genes, if you mean not in genes, is that right, that's one thing, we have to keep an eye on it, especially as we enter Europe, so we don't forget to speak it correctly. And what the colleague says... Gen da, but in Croatian, yes, the genis is the stork, and the gene is in Croatian... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, look at that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96165	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Next amendment, Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96166	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Ingrid who said that the top drug mob, the drug lords, are untouchable. No, they're not. This is the best case for Mrs. Ruža Tomasic, who has shown drug dealers from the Korčula area and has driven the institutions of the rule of law to start doing their part of the job because we need to be aware of over two billion kunas a year is the least drug mafia in Croatia, and therefore we all need to have that courage, as Mrs. Ruža Tomasic has, and that is the only way to start to fight this monster decisively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96167	Thank you very much. We can, can we move on with the debate? On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Carmela Caparin. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96168	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear secretary, head of the office, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed in a report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention and Abuse of Intoxication Drugs in the Republic of Croatia in 2006 and estimated that it was a very high-quality report. Unfortunately, we can see from this report a further spread of an epidemic of addiction that knows no borders but also the development of new programmes and the reduction of demand, drug supply, reduction of damage, treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration, and preventive activities related to drug crime. Strategic documents are the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2012 and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Drug Abuse for the period 2006 to 2009. Every day we face more and more cheap, more available, a new kind of drug but that has a devastating effect on the brain and what it says about the soul. The phenomenon of drug abuse in modern society is a global phenomenon against which all countries of the world are facing. Where she comes from, she's not a stranger. We're like land on the so-called so-called. The Balkan route. The profits are measured at hundreds of millions of euros. The latest figures speak of three hundred million Euros and problems enter local communities, in a family that is a fundamental unit of our society. The problem of the offer in the Republic of Croatia is not isolated and depends on the situation on the European and world-wide illegal drug market. In consumer society, the meaning of life is prestigious, hedonism, money, power. We can talk about a moral crisis, a disturbed system of values. The report shows that the Republic of Croatia is facing a serious drug addiction problem. A total of 23 thousand 990 people have been registered and we know for ourselves that the figure must be much larger. So people who have been treated for abuse of psychoactive drugs. The number of new people is 850 a year. He dominates heroin addiction. Greater progress is seen in the better functioning of the centre in all counties as it is seen in the fact that longer and longer they manage to keep their addicts in treatment. During 2006 there were 7000 427 people, of whom 2,000 and one person were therefore 26.9% for the first time in treatment. Compared to 2005, 11% increased the total number of drug addicts treated. In the system of treatment, more and more young and minors are coming to receive treatment from the Centre for Social Care or the Municipal State Attorney's Office, who are in most cases not opiate addicts. Of the 7,000 427 treated, 39.4% are unemployed. 26.1% in steady employment, and 12.3% had occasional jobs. Students and students were 14.2%. However, attention is paid to the first use of any drug that happens at 15.9 years. The first time you take heroin when you're 20 years old. And the first time you take intravenous heroin when you're 20.8 years old. While in 2006, the average age of the first arrival to the treatment of heroin addicts was 25.5 years, which means that from the first experimentation to the arrival of treatment it is 10 years. It's a worrying piece of information. The average age of a man is 29 years. And a woman 28.6 years, so at a good generational age. The most people were treated for heroin 75.5%. And because of the abuse of marijuana, 14.4%. Unfortunately, we also encounter other diagnosiss such as hepatitis B and C, alcoholism, schizophrenia, and other personality disorders. The reduction in the number of dead interpretations is the adoption of guidelines for pharmacotherapy, the pharmacotherapy of opiate heroin addicts brought in 30.1.2006 and guidelines for the pharmacotherapy of the kidneynorphine and putting it on the list of Croatian Insurance Institute medicines. They play a significant role in 8 therapy communities and 32 therapy houses that implement psychosocial rehabilitation programmes, working therapy, family counselling and promotional programmes with the aim of prevention in the community and resocialisation. Members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club hope to adopt new rules that will indeed define the basic conditions and standards of the therapeutic community programme. The report shows that all resolution ministries have actively implemented programmes of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse. Short term education, prevention of addiction and affirmation of healthy lifestyles are the best drug medicine. The need to create a full preventive strategy and a preventive policy aimed at targeted groups is explored. It reduces the repressive attitude towards young people. In 70.7% of minors, the criminal application was resolved by discarding on the principle of purpose after minors had made a commitment to advisory treatment in the Department of Prevention of Dependence or Youth Advisory. It is evident that much more is invested in prevention than so far because this can reduce the interest of young people in drugs but we still need to reduce the availability and demand of drugs on the market. Today, in the area of smaller units of local self-government, it is not drugs but alcohol that is consumed but can, of course, be a prelude to addiction. The implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse requires a multidisciplinary approach to primary prevention measures, secondary prevention, the reduction of harmful health and social consequences related to drug abuse. Psychological treatment and treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration of addicts. In young people, self - respect and confidence should be strengthened in making decisions and resisting pressures to choose a truly healthy lifestyle because this monster is like an infectious disease. She doesn't know the boundaries. And I'm asking from the ministry and the office, the HDZ club, to discuss other types of addiction, we're meeting today with alcohol addiction, tablet addiction, cigarette addiction. So we can discuss the addictions that we can discuss and where we can act on prevention. In the future, it might also be good to consider the establishment of an office to combat the addiction of this species. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96169	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The following was reported for the debate on behalf of the IDS Club, a fellow representative of Damir Cain. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96170	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I'd say one way or another. That this material is the biggest criticism of the executive authority itself by the executive authority or the greatest criticism of institutions by the institutions themselves. It's my impression that we're on our way to capitulate in front of drug monsters. But there's a good example. Here on page 51, where literally it's said, and it's about drug tests, that drug tests during 2006 tested 2,000 167 prisoners of which 196 were positive. So every tenth in prison is positive. This activity shall be carried out contaminated with the aim of preventing the introduction and consumption of drugs in penitentiary and prisons, preventing the spread of its abuse and the taking of appropriate medical treatment and safety measures towards those prisoners whose results shall be positive, etc. etc. So if we test the prisoners, I publicly ask the question, why don't we test for drugs and our students and our students. I'm deeply convinced that our parents or parents wouldn't blame us for that. This quote says something else, our prisons aren't safe. In prisons, there's drugs like on the street, we talked about it a little while ago. If there are drugs in the most protected facilities in the Republic of Croatia, and I think they should still be closed, so where are these drugs gone? She may not be here in Parliament, but I'm deeply convinced she's everywhere else. I'm not sure, sweetheart, but I don't suppose there's one in these benches, but everywhere else there are, from police to media, from schools to college, from hospitals, I don't know which other institutions. On page 5, it is said that the Republic of Croatia has seen a steady trend in the number of people treated for drug abuse. According to all indicators in the Republic of Croatia, the supply of drugs has increased in recent years, which has become more diverse, while at the same time increasing drug availability, resulting in an increased trend in drug consumption, especially among young people, etc. etc. In 2006, the growth of treated people increased by 13% compared to 2005. So the number at five is just going to pay off. The question is, where are we all going? All of us who have children, we simply fear almost pathologically that our children may not find themselves in such a situation. There's no scarier stuff, you invest your whole life in a kid all you've got, and then overnight, he just takes it away from you. How do you stand up to that? I just believe in those drug tests. If it's confirmed, let's submit first here in this House and then we'll go among them. But the only real defense in my court is, I don't know who talked about it before, to start talking about that problem. There are treated addicts we've heard, but I've never heard one of them say, so there's a drug I got through this or this. We all just keep our mouths shut. The police are silent, parents are silent, former addicts are silent, and then the question is how to break that attitude, that vow of silence. I'm also calling from this place in Pula to get information on who set that engine on fire a few days ago on Kandler Street in Pula, after which four people were burned, badly burned. One of these consequences even died, she died. We all know it was a mob deal, so people who deal that heroin, drugs, etc. And now the question is whether or not we'll know the perpetrators. In front of pulse schools, Zagreb's all one thing: Rijeka, Sibenik, Osijek, Zadar, so it's the easiest thing to get into drugs. When we're just going to change that, when we're going to change that. Can we save children, through children parents, families, teachers from this terror. What I just liked today is the Secretary of State's sentence that there are no easy drugs. It's all just addiction. No easy drugs, it's all addiction. It is said in this report that the largest number of people reported for treatment from Istria and that I further quote it, well, because Istria has more centres to fight addiction than others. I don't know what to just say on that sentence except that the volunteering of former addicts, parents, police, simply contributes to the spread of that problem. On page 21, it was said how many people died in 2006 alone, that is, from that overdose. Even 90-tero people, mostly from Zagreb 34, then Split-Dalmatia County 10, then Istria 9 persons or 10%. And that's exactly the kind of information that's just worrying. We have 5.5% of the population, and 10% of that number of 90 addicts who died by overdose is simply from Istria. What do you need to do? Perhaps economic opportunities in Istria are something better than elsewhere. Is maybe because of the easier profit, the problem is more pronounced there. Is the fact that the good part of it is going to work on even better paid jobs in Italy, whether because of that tourism, whether because of some other sources of income I don't know what's going on, but the problem is simply acute. And what there is in one Pula, surely there is in one Denunciation. What's in Poreč is in Pazin. What there is in Pazin, Buzet, Roch, so I don't list all the other smaller places. On page 42, there was also an interesting presentation, a presentation of criminal charges filed for the initiation of criminal acts of drug abuse from 96 to 2006. So in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 there were fewer applications than in 99, 2000 and 2001, and the problem was certainly more present in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 than it was in 99. And then there's the question of why. Also on page 45 there are reports of a reported, accused, convicted adult for drug crimes possession. In 2001 4000 622, 2002 was reported. Five thousand 131 people, 2003. 4 thousand 382, 2006 everything, under quotes, 3 thousand 672, 2005 even less 3 thousand 338, etc. So the number of defendants and the number of convicted, and we know that the drug problem in this country is simply escalating. On page 46, it is said that the possession of intoxicating drugs as the basic and most minor form of crime referred to in Article 173. The penal code is the most represented participating the total mass of drug abuse with 74.9%. The second place is the reselling of intoxicating drugs, which by the number of people reported is 15.7%, then the association for the sale of intoxicating drugs 2%, giving drugs to enjoy and facilitate the use of 5.3%, qualified works, etc. Drug use means children must be treated specifically. Dileme, decriminalization on one side of legalization. Against the legalization of these easy drugs should be 100%. The possession of intoxicating drugs, these light drugs, whether this should be deleted from the catalogue of incrimination. No, I don't. But judges must have one enough diaposone punishment not to be destroyed by those little people, especially the next day if after two or three years of time they did not show that relapse simply delete them from their records. That should be some kind of message. So you should also send a clear message, society won't tolerate it. I've never seen or tried drugs in my life, but let's also send kids a message, don't just play with it. Fight it, but what will you do when, for example, In some polls and worse are young people, 30, 405 in the first, second or third grade primary school already responds that they have come into contact with one of the drugs and that is our problem. And why don't you now introduce those drug tests into those high school or high school finals or college? How could the Croatian police and this be the same question, in a country with 4.3 million inhabitants, fail to reach the big players the colleague used to talk about. That's the problem. Is someone protecting them? You gentlemen know very well that, for example, In the mid-90s in the Shepurins, if I'm not mistaken, allegedly in the military center of the planes, the roads were small, the military police under those rotating lights imported those drugs to Split not to speak the name of Maglov etc. Apparently, some generals were funded by the Italian mafia, etc., etc. Of course, I don't want to throw a Stigma on the army this time, but if anything else is good, I don't know at least this military service because there's no need for that. As far as the seizure is concerned. On page 59, and we also see that we have a problem, we're not good at it. For example. In 2004, we had 114 kilograms of heroin seized, 2006. Eighty-six kilos. I don't know. Marijuana, 2004. 428 kilograms, 2006. 202 kilos. Cocaine, 2004, was seized 14.595, actually 17 kilograms and 595 grams, 2005. 8 kilograms, 963 grams, 2006. 5 kilograms of 640 grams, etc., etc. Ecstazy 2004 seized 27 thousand 048 of these tablets, 2006. 16 thousand 350 of those pills, that sort of thing. So, less of everything has been seized, and we're all sure that the number of addicts in those two years has increased by at least 25, maybe more, but it's not seen from the seized, or from these tables. I'm not gonna say our police aren't working. It works, but yet the results as the public expects, unfortunately, do not achieve even though we need to be honest and notice that these 2007s. Benko and his principalship managed to cut several drug chains across the Republic of Croatia. That's what you should notice. I know it's long-term procedures, procedures, that it can't be done from today until tomorrow, but it's worth admitting what they did right. So that's the conclusion for the end. From the action plan, we seem to be more on the agenda, than on the actions, the actual results we expect are still missing. I know there's no more ungrateful matter than this, but I'm also calling everyone on this matter not to be silent, because it's either it's not always happening to others. Once again, it is not that anything is done, in 2006 23.9 million kuna was spent on the plan, but if we know that there is a business of over 200 million euros in the game or I don't know more than 2 billion kunas mentioned here, then there are crumbs, but we also remember that the police have a budget of 4 billion kuna and customs has a budget, and the military police have their own budget, and the State's Attorney's Office, and the penitentiary has their own budget to fight drugs, and in schools is spent on those purposes so that these 63 million kuna is the top of the ice dream that is being shown in this material as funds going from the budget to fight drugs. Me, to finish these words. I'm afraid even the new government won't revolutionally change opportunities, as this revolutionaryly improved the fight against drugs compared to the former government. However, we all know that the number of addicts in 2008 will be more than in 2007, 2009 will be more than in 2008, 2010 will be more than in 2009. I finally share the opinion of those in this House that the public smoking party here at Ban Jelačić Square will no longer be held and that this message will be sent from this assembly. There are no easy drugs, I've heard it's all simple addiction, and let's not give up on young people, and I've been smoking marijuana, so it's no big deal, so why don't you try to know what you're getting yourself into. For the end, just one more sentence. We talk, so those who earn blood, on the souls of these young people, parents, etc. They're still doing their job. I get the impression they're laughing at us how convincing we are in our performances.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96171	Thank you very much, colleague. Before we proceed to correct incorrect allegations, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. The first one came forward by a representative named Lucin. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96172	Well, I think there might be a lot to fix. I'll correct only one false allegation, which is that testing as the lowest form of repressive action will produce some results. Especially saliva testing. The experiences of the Western world have also shown that if you go and get acquainted with now-in-the-optic saws, you need to know this, that you do not keep a large number of heavy drugs in the saliva. Actually, it's just easy drugs. So we'll get the wrong picture. It's another thing. I would never allow my child to be tested as a parent, because I think we all have to do our job first as parents. I, too, build a relationship of trust and education with my child so that no one else can think of using drugs. So, I think that story about the testers that this one's been showing up lately, it's too high because it doesn't give the right picture of the condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96173	Thank you, colleague. The next correction to the incorrect quote, representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Cain's, in his very well-supported exhibition, had several incorrect allegations, a finding that did not stand. I'll list two. First. We're on our way to capitulate in the fight against drugs. I believe that Croatian society and Croatian government and Croatian society institutions respond adequately, but the problem of drugs is not only a problem in Croatia. This is also the problem of the modern world. On the other hand, I will mention that units of local self-government and NGOs also give their pain and contribution to prevention. And another false assumption is that we all keep our mouths shut. I believe that we in the Croatian Parliament and the media talk a lot, write a lot about it, perhaps in a sensational way, but in any case we should talk more about education. He would certainly point out the role of the church. When it comes to loudness, when it comes to messages, I think it best shows messages to both family and to each individual, and especially to young people who are de facto every day at the opportunity to, and at the opportunity to consume or be, to enter a world that none of us would want to enter. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96175	Thank you very much, colleague. Another correction, MP Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96176	My colleague Cain said, quote, "There's no drugs in the House, there's drugs everywhere else." According to this, a colleague of Caine's is certain that he has children's kindergartens, and that he is also certain that she is not in the Parliament. Well, since... Yeah, that's what he said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I quote it. But I think that, let me speak. "There's no drugs in the Assembly, everywhere else." That's what he said. Reading complete. It means there's it in children's, implications in kindergartens, there's no here. Since he proposes testing everyone, including children in primary schools, in high schools, I suggest that parliamentary representatives be tested as well. Why not? Why should we be intimate? And another thing. The second thing, decriminalization and legalization of drugs are not the same thing. I'm sure there'll be more to that. And I don't think we're good at talking about one cataclysmic vision, as if Croatia is totally drug addictive or drugged society. It's not like that. It's a monster to fight with. But you don't need to talk cataclysmically about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96177	Thank you very much, colleague. Next on behalf of the HSLS club is counterpart Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96178	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! And a nice greeting to the gallery. It's actually the most important that this particular population listens to and watches us. As far as this report is concerned, whenever it's on the agenda of the report, I say this is the usual sentence, that the report is correct, that it meets all the requirements of the genre as it should actually be written. But always, after every one of these reports, the question remains, and what after that? And I think this is really this report showing one tragic, that uglier side of our society, but it's also good that we as a society and we can face that the drugs really didn't pass our society, that it exists, that it's a great evil. And in the end, that's exactly what this statistic is talking about. But always being behind every statistic and so on and behind this is living fate, living people, their family, their family, and then on that side I say, it's showing that we're not getting rid of this global monster and that the drugs really belong to the culture of the world, and that right now there's no easy fight against that evil at all. But we always wonder how we can fight? If I don't know what's going on here, there's about 20 million kunas on one side that's supposed to be for prevention, and on the other hand, you've got over 200 million euros turning around. I feel like I don't know how to put out a fire with a spoon of water, so you run and wishful, but actually you can't handle it. What's good is that we're like a society, that we're sensitized and that's what we're talking about. Drugs existed before the '90s. A year. She was quite present. But normally in those times these were things that were not good to talk about and were in some way intended exclusively for black chronicles. Today, however, it is a matter that we face openly and admit to ourselves, that we are not, that it exists. And what I'm saying is this whole tragedy is that it's just affecting this youngest population, and it's kind of starting out in society that way. But now we actually always have to ask ourselves what we as politics, as we can change, what can we do? First of all, we have the possibility when we vote the budget that this very relatively low or almost negligible item is raised and that we really are aware that with our raising hands, insisting that just all of these institutions that are dealing with it and there are a lot of them, but they remind me a little bit of you know, what the people say, a lot of grandmothers a bluish child, in a way that it's pretty dispersive, that there's not one to say a roof organization that would, with that phenomenon of evil rightly faced. And the more we're aware ourselves that it's just the tip of an ice dream and that it's usually said that behind each of these addicts stands at least two or three more, or even four times more those who are not in any particular way affected by the treatment. So, this very fact of what they say to open society that Croatian society is an open society, that we have faced it, that there are indeed these Balkan or who knows which already all the routes they find here are. There is now our good positioning geographical, geostrategic, then we pay that tribute and that good positioning and that the whole series of exactly I say these roads of the West, the east goes across Croatia and then it actually happens there. But also what's actually, what I'm alone and as mayor and also a parliamentary representative faced with one actually infirmity. I also know, in Osijek is also one of the unfortunately large centers where really a car full of drugs and you always have a feeling with whoever you're talking to on the street or professionally that everyone knows everything but that it's actually almost nothing or very little. I'll just remember, a few years ago we had one case of one of those cops in charge of drug control. He's come into conflict with two drug dealers. That conflict didn't end at all, there were broken heads and sticks working. But then the second day that was interesting in the media, these dealers were one of the better, which is what the stronger dealers in the city said were depicted as innocent victims. I found myself in a position to write to Mr. Lucin, then, and I asked him not to sanction that man drastically, I don't know, there was even a speech, or in the media, that he should be thrown out of the police. I didn't want to get into that code of conduct that has to be, but I certainly said that this happened one drastic sanction to actually lose another one of the wars against those dealers and that this man, by his work, action and tenacity and the desire for drugs to be eradicated in Osijek, was in some way a symbol. And thank God, I must also admit here to publicly say that a colleague of Luc's then-minister police heard actually my appeal, my request that, in accordance with the laws that apply, but also to keep an eye on that any sanctions of those people who expose themselves every day would be another message actually there's a dealer town, the world is yours and you're just doing it freely, nothing can happen to you. These are more or less all speakers before me who have spoken indeed drugs are present than they say since kindergarten but what is there since the upper classes of primary schools, high schools, wherever these parties are, entertainment is present and it is something we must not only observe but see what can be done and the opposite. Well then, and for that too, these statements, these public gestures, this public and even political discourse should be so focused that there is no need in any way to raise and actually convince your amateur or any other experience. I agree with my colleague Jurevic between decriminalisation, the legalization of easy drugs that these are two different things but actually it's something that you and I know or some but it's actually being translated differently in reality. My colleague Ivanish, who is unfortunately not here, has always said as a doctor, says no one begins immediately with heavy drugs. In fact, it's this almost logical way to start easy to get to heavy drugs first. And now everyone is actually talking, that is, reducing this harmfulness of light drugs actually creates in some way a sense in the public or especially in these young people that it is not so bad. And I'm saying, especially if we, with a few unserious, irresponsible statements, encourage them. I remember when she was somewhere five, six years ago here that debate regardless of how my liberal worldview should be, in fact, that I just accept it. It is, in some ways, like European liberal democratic societies. I've also always had this one mind and not just a politician and a citizen but also a parent, I don't know that I would never suggest to my child that smoking marijuana, that it's not so bad and that it doesn't produce any addiction. As well, let's say you see this story of sports. No, I mean the sadder parole "Sport Against Drugs!". I also read in Osijek a large number of athletes who, unfortunately, can't have offspring and want to have offspring and can't have offspring and actually bear witness to this tragedy. Many of them were even athletes in some former times, which proved to be almost legalized in a way that their sports successes were provoked and by taking some of these funds. Cycling here, this year's Tour de France, there's actually not a single Tour de France that's not in the shadow of drugs. I don't know, we've been celebrating this Marion Jones five, six years ago, she admitted today, or yesterday, that tragic fact, she's returning all the medals, and in some ways our media have also been involved in the creation of myths. There are almost no top words of athletes, cyclists, and unfortunately in other sports it is also present. People who don't know how to lift weights or things like this really don't seem to be in accordance with what they do every time, that both the muscle mass and everything else that's happened, that there are some means in that story that would actually be that the human body never consumes. So I say the same thing that, on the one hand, it's not an alibi but war and everything that happened during the Homeland War and after it actually showed very much that it was all a little bit like that to say overnight, otherwise it couldn't actually be honest how it was created. Unfortunately, there were always those characters who used it very skillfully and that it was this one sacred story, etc. Used for one quick profit and that's just an army and... a condition that is always outside, certainly not normal because large quantities have been placed in distribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And later on, we have a whole series, and there's a general down there with 600 kilos in the Rijeka harbor. Normally, it doesn't apply to all generals, it's that minority, but unfortunately in public, these are the kind of black cases that have actually been exploited and it's perfectly normal. And then it felt like there was also political protection for those who deserved it, that they weren't actually being processed, that they weren't sanctioned, and I say a little bit of it together was very unserious. There we also showed as politics and as this House of Highs that we didn't talk about these things more clearly, we didn't talk about it later or when we spoke then we actually translated our speech into thinking something else. No, we were thinking that it was happening, that there was a tragedy and that the highest price paid by Croatian youth. At the same time, a large number should also be pointed out in this action, this public one, I have met a large number of people who really, here from governmental, not governmental associations of doctors who really do this work, work hard, who are real fighters, who just need to be made available to them from the means, from creating, creating space and, I say not only material incentives, but also this recognition, a symbolic recognition that these people need to get, that your words really don't look like the report that describes, describes all, all the tragedy, all the tragedy, all the tragedy, of this society. And that black, this worse side, because I say, it's not every time, it's not every time those risks of open society, it's global society, and they have those dark sides. So in the name of the club I say it, we can take it to the knowledge, I don't think it's done, it's not done, I say, I'm saying it's probably, the data is accurate. I won't offend you if I say, you know Balzak said anything stupid as a fact, nothing as stupid as a figure. That's what I meant if there really wasn't a stronger action behind it, that is, a reaction that will turn to this evil where 200 million euros will stand exactly the right way. And those penalties, you know as well as my colleague Letica and I are great anti-smoking fighters precisely because of what it is and in its own, what we see about it in its environment. So we also understand our colleague Ruža and others who really, really burn and try to actually confront... evil even at the cost of some of its own, physical integrity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we're still afraid it's just actually catching up and this lowest one actually, and these pioneers and these tiny little errands, and if these real drug lords were still somewhere else, they weren't properly located yet, or if they were, I'd like to hear it and finally ask ourselves, and who in this society can be protected and that nothing happens to him. So we accept this knowledge, but we also appeal when a new budget is worn, and exactly so that we don't regret one zero in front or some two in front of this sum that this moment and... No two in front, two in front and zero in the back, so I think we understand each other, pardon the lapus. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96179	Thank you very much. I can see the bidding's over. We have the initials of incorrect allegations. Please, colleagues, colleague Kovacevic, please. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96180	First of all, I want to say that it's very important that we all understand that most young people are healthy. That it's one sick group or criminal group that's a minority in society. Because we're threatened by the danger here to somehow get the impression that they're all junkies, which is why I'm warning you that's what I think is important. Second, it is important to protect the healthy and to treat the sick. That's why this campaign should be turned around to me with the fact that, that life, not the junkies O.K., but that it should be before that no. Yes, life. My colleague Kramarić, therefore, what I want to correct, decriminalization and legalization. Decriminalization in no way means legalization. It means, in general, that it goes. This means that a patient is bound to be treated, anyway, it's a solution that was here until the year 98. But I really think we all want to talk about this well-meaningly. I think it's very important that we don't create, because otherwise we're going to call ourselves an alcoholic society, a drug society, an alcoholic even more than a junkie. They're all monsters to fight, but neither our society is alcoholic nor drug addict. But we have a different approach to what's smarter and what's better about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96181	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure by MP Kramarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96182	This Regulation shall enter I don't understand why my colleague Jurjevic is so distracted. He says what I said. I'd like to ask that deconcentration to give in a little bit and add up a little bit. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96183	This article 209 is somewhat controversial. It's a favorite article of all MPs but well, the important thing is that we agreed. Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote is the representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96184	First of all, I'm glad this brilliant... The speech was given before you by his colleague Kramarić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it is not in the first place your list in Osijek goes to me on the list, an independent list of Slavena Letica in the first place. But I have to correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96185	Article 209 please, 209th colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96186	No 209th, I'm not correcting, I'm not correcting, so I'm correcting the wrong assumption that he brought drug sports into question as a project. So you can't do that because sport is one of the preventive media for the development of a healthy person. As for the drug sport itself. Once again, I remind the non-present sports minister that it is the last hour tomorrow to appoint a national sports council or I will consider him a law professor and I will blame him personally, my friend and student and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96187	Thank you very much, these are serious warnings before the release. The next amendment is a colleague of Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, perhaps even a lapuse, when he said, a large number of athletes consume intoxicating drugs. Surely it can't be true, if one, I don't know if a Croatian athlete has ever failed a single doping test. There were some attempts at pranks a year ago, we know the handball case, so in the end, the whole of Spain and all the doctors in Spanish apologized. So if we're going to find something that's the healthiest prevention and it's certainly a sport. I'll give you an example that, that we are, I don't know, somewhere around 75 thousand active athletes in Croatia, that none of us have ever had a drug problem, or that we are inclined if one individual is that we are all. So if in the Croatian Parliament one man consumes alcohol that we are all alcoholics. So in this debate, we've heard many times that our young people have been seduced, that more or less all of them are drug addicts. And look how nice they look up at the gallery. And I welcome them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96189	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the club debates. This pre-election spirit is felt in the assembly room. HNS club. A fellow representative, Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96190	Madam Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to be relatively brief and try not to repeat what's already been said. Every report like this when it comes to our benches, colleagues and colleagues has two basic goals. One goal is to report to us as parliamentary representatives on the state of affairs in the area and through clearly our debate to the public of Croatia. The second objective is for this same debate to take a critical look at certain content in this report and then to serve and serve these data so that it can correct the strategy, that it can correct the action plan, that it can be completed, that it can change the financing system and so on. What we've said so far during this debate, I don't think it serves the government for that purpose, nor has anything been said in that sense, but I don't think that's possible. I really don't think it's possible. This report does not give us the right parameters based on which certain conclusions could be reached at all in order to make certain moves to correct the strategy, action plan or anything else. I will only point to some illogicalities, although respected representatives of the government of the previous years have repeatedly warned me of the need to supplement the data, to present the data differently, to answer a number of questions. This report is no different than last year or before. Therefore, you have not realized the demands that we have made before you and the petitions that we have made before you. I'm a doctor, and I'm gonna look back on that part of the treatment community and the treatment. This is Chapter 3. The conclusion is also on page 34. The first two sentences, "It is evident from the above that the therapeutic communities are providing more and more quality," underlining "skiller programmes in the area of rehabilitation of addicts. This is confirmed by the growing number of addicts who are referring to foreign withdrawals and more and more newly-accessible addicts in the therapeutic communities." I do not consider them to be any arguments that would claim or justify a better quality. Absolutely not. Only two or three pages earlier reads: "In 2006, associations implemented different programmes," I repeat "different programmes aimed at prevention with addicts, working with young people, working with addicts and drug users and working with families of addicts". This means that all these different programs were obviously equally effective, equally effective. I can't agree with that. I argue, at least in the area where I live where we have a few such communities that some of them have very good results, others have significantly more modest results. And I'd like to know where they're better, where they're worse, and where are the worst results? So then I could ask that we mainly define ourselves for those successful programs by modeling successful associations, not those that aren't. I can't read it out of this. Furthermore, in 2006 compared to 2005, the total number of drug addicts who were aided by the associations decreased by 45% while the number of drug addicts who received the aid by 35%. And we're talking about a more successful and successful model. That's what these sentences deny regardless of any further text that can justify about ten or fifteen percent of the difference but these differences are 45 and 35 percent. Then police work, the work of our courts. On page 47, we have a summary table that shows us that we have fewer and fewer applications in the period from age 4 to 6. That we have fewer and fewer defendants. Same question again. This is the sumptuous data for all of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe there are courts, so I'm just going to maybe pull out what I'm still going to move around about. So the number of charges is about 20% lower than the number of charges. Globally looking and looking together. I believe that this difference is smaller in some courts and I would like to know which courts do it better and which courts do it differently. I'd like to know that. I don't know what it looks like in certain counties, and I don't know if I'm allowed to direct my criticism to this and any other county court. I'd like to know that information. As for my colleagues and colleagues, statistics themselves are also a way of reporting to the Assembly, it really humiliates me this way of showing. So I don't have all this important data that I need that I can even bring an objective court, and on the other hand, look at what the tables we've been offered here look like. I'll just pick a few of them. See Table 1. It only repeats itself in graphic form as Figure 1. So then we have a table 2. Table 1 and Table 3 are then just added up and put as Table 3. What's that for? We can add up the two figures ourselves and calculate the percentage. Give us the answer to all those questions we asked last year and before last year and three three years ago. That we can really participate in creating a strategy. That we can really assess the quality of the action plan. Here, that's all we needed to say in front of HNS because we think this debate really doesn't lead to anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96191	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a representative of the Sabbath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96192	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I doubted whether I was correcting, correcting my colleague, Doric, but when he first spoke about what this report was saying, he mentioned that this report does not give the right conclusions. Technically, if you look at the end of each chapter if you can say so, there is a conclusion, but I agree that this conclusion is only a formal nature because it does not make any proposals for measures that should be expected from a serious report. So this report is certainly a set of statistical information that is more similar year by year and that describes the problem similarly. Of course the numbers change. But I'm particularly confused with the conclusion here when it comes to county. It turns out that some counties, some counties have far more treated addicts and some less. And nowhere in the report mentions that in principle it depends on when which County Commission or centre started working, which programs did it run? Then it would be seen that this number may also depend on the work of those centers or commissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96193	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more registered clubs or corrections of incorrect allegations. We're going to an individual debate. The first is the registered representative of counterpart Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, there's a high-quality report in front of us, but what it shows. It shows that we're losing that drug battle. That the year-to-year situation is getting worse. He's getting more and more addicts, more and more drugs. We have a national strategy, from that national strategy came up with an action plan and we can only conclude logically that they do not work. Either the strategy has been mischosen or the action plan is wrong, but every day the situation is getting worse. I think it's kind of logical because it seems to me that the chosen target is the wrong target. We have to ask ourselves who the enemy is, who we're fighting, whether they're addicts or drug dealers and merchants. If we're fighting addicts, if they're our enemies, then the strategy is phenomenal and action plan. Because the police find them, they're arrested, they're brought to court. Consumables, junkies, addicts. But I don't think they're supposed to be our enemies, so they shouldn't be the target of fighting the country against the monsters, against the evil appearance of drugs. The target should be second. And in finding that target and in dealing with that target, we're not effective. Mrs. Ruža Tomasic, our colleague, had to call her first name and dealer from Korčula in order to get the state apparatus running and in order to take care of the situation for as long as possible in Korčula. But the people of God, do you need for every municipality, for every city of Ruža Tomasic? It's obvious you should. It is obvious that it should, because only when Mrs. Tomasic pointed out the question directly by her name and by her last name did something happen there. Everyone knows who these dealers are in smaller municipalities and cities, those drug addicts' parents know that, everybody knows that, it's no secret, and yet nothing is done. Now instead of this report answering our question and why nothing is being done, it's bringing, it's a collection of some sad statistics. Let's ask ourselves a rather question about the education system. So why don't we have a compulsory teaching class in primary schools of addiction? So it goes from 4th grade to 8th, so it learns as math teaches. Otherwise it's a textbook I mean for the sixth grade, one page about all the addictions, so about nicotine, alcohol, drugs. One page. It's in one class being processed or half an hour and that's all kids hear about it. So if that's a danger, which is, if drugs are already dealing in front of primary schools and they're dealing, let's protect those kids from changing those education programs. Why? So that they wouldn't speak or think, that they wouldn't live in the wrong belief as they can hear here, that there are no easy and heavy drugs. There are people of God! There are drugs that create addiction from the first time, and there are those who don't. I'm not saying that they need to be stimulated to take these things that they don't create, so nobody really thinks that, but that they should get to know each other, that's certainly true, and that would certainly be useful. As we cannot fight evil alcoholism if we claim that with a glass of wine it becomes an alcoholic. We can't. With such nebuloses, we will not fight successfully. We need to recognize evil, and we need to educate these potential victims, educate them, explain to them what kind of evil it is. Why is there no police in the schoolyards if it's known that she was dealing there? Why doesn't the action plan predict it? Let's go back to the time when the kids come, go to school, be a civilian officer, covert to try to catch those dealers or at least discourage them. Because if they see a cop there, they won't come, so they won't take any chances. If the target was mischosen, you can see it in the report, be careful here it writes nicely. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal code is the most representative and participates in the total mass of drug abuse with 74.9% and association to sell intoxicating drugs with 2%. We're two percent successful. 2% in the capture of those who organized themselves, so in the capture of narcotics, and 74% we're successful in the capture of drug addicts. What's going on with that 74.9% is on the last page. Despite the number of persons reported, the number of accused persons continues to decrease year after year. Compared to the previous year, the number of defendants was reduced by 8%, the reduction in the number of accused persons being interpreted more frequently by Article 28. Penal Code in cases where small amounts of intoxicating drugs found in addicts for their personal needs and criminal application is dismissed and an infringement procedure which is generally faster and more effective. And that's all we've been saying for years, that the misdemeanor procedure is faster and more effective. And now you see what's going on. Police file criminal charges, the court dismissed criminal charges for the possession and moved on to criminal proceedings. The judges are acting logically. And when we claim that such a logical act should actually be legal, because to be more efficient, the secretary of state wrote it because it's more efficient, faster and more efficient, and we just want to be faster and more efficient in fighting that evil. So when we suggest it, then I listen here today to Caine who's talking about legalizing drugs I think she is, I don't know if it's Kramaric too. We feel like we don't understand each other or like we're not listening. And who ever advocated legalizing any drugs? But if the Secretary of State says that a misdemeanor procedure is more effective in combat, then let's define it as a strategy of that struggle. So why are we insisting on a solution that is clearly not good, because if it were right then the junkie would be less. Therefore, this is not a matter that should be politicized. This isn't about this or that government, this or that party, this is about society, the community. Whether we want to be successful or we want to pretend that we are doing something, and we see that we are losing the battle and then we continue to insist on this wrong solution by praising all the mouths of the government who has offered and implements it. Things need access to sober, cold heads, based on data, based on court practice and we decide, let's first decide on those legislative solutions that will be better and more effective, and secondly we decide to force the repressive apparatus, the police to make it more effective, because people of God cannot happen to them from the police vehicle to escape the dealer and no one else. They let him go. I guess he paid them off, which I know what happened. Or cooperate. But that can't happen. We can't let that happen as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96195	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have several replicas and a correction of an incorrect quote. The first reported to the replica was representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96196	So I think the question we're asking is the basic question of who we're fighting. I'd say we're all actually fighting the senselessness of life here, because a junkie is one form of escapism, an escape from life, so going to death. That's why I said that the fight against drug abuse must be determined, because they affirmative that life does not die, not escape from life. Which is why some of the young people, we're talking about them now, are going into a situation that wants to escape the reality that is unbearable to him, that's one broad and profound question. What Nenad was talking about, he raised a dilemma at the level of whether our positive laws stimulate the fight against drug dealers or the punishment of patients. Our whole misunderstanding believing in the well-meaning of both sides is about how we look at whether someone who's really sick, who's been shot in this way will be punished as a criminal and will that allow it to make it possible for criminals to get out of that situation and be... I don't think that's the point, and that's why these debates that are often politicized and that are going to be politicized at this pre-election time, and I think they need to stop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A team more, repeats, what HDZ governments are up to '98. For years, they've represented what we stand for right now. I don't think I'm accusing these governments of being a drug addict. If the number of drug addicts increases with these positive laws, they're not worth it. If the number of dead on the roads is growing to zero, that means it doesn't contribute to anything. It's a healthy human logic and everyone will answer the change of the law, because it doesn't help.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96197	Thank you very much. Next replica, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96198	Change the law, don't give results. It's too late to change the law, but something needs to be changed with the furniture that will change the laws like you say, fellow Stazic, who needs to be fought and pointed the blade. So that's the basic question, whether against manufacturers, drug lords, drug mobs who are in no way drug users. Those at the top of the pyramid aren't drug users. I say they're respected citizens, they're sponsors. Well, now that it's clear that these results don't measure, that these measures don't produce results, something needs to be changed. So what my colleague Stazic is asking is a fundamental question, something there needs to be changed, and why it does not change. Now that's the real question. Why isn't that changing? Who's being protected here? Because I can believe there was one delusion at first. If statistics now clearly show that the simple use of drugs has exploded and that no one questions where the drugs come from in Croatia and who protects those persons. I think the answer is imposed on itself, because the law as it's set, it's simply concrete. You're protected by law, you're haunted by them, but the system works like that and you're discovering that those who could show up and shut up because it's logical to keep quiet, because then the organization would impute them and they would shut up and respond to that possession of drugs that you've spent three years in prison without being able to relieve punishment. And then it makes sense that, here you see the police and other executive bodies taking over what in no way could, because police discretion is one very, very dangerous thing. My fellow Stazich, you are rightly speaking of discipline.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96200	Education. And what are you saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96201	Replica, a respected representative of Krunoslav Markovanovic. It's that correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96202	Correction of the wrong allegation. So here's my colleague Stazic wrongly states that we don't introduce students in schools to the danger of drugs. That's not true. Schools have organised lectures against smoking addiction, alcohol and drugs, and what we acknowledge is that there are still no pictures of famous SDP politicians who order we used drugs, so we became party presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96203	Replica, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Turn off the internal replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. ... Sir, I'm going to set foot in a constructive debate. I've been listening very closely to you. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And I agree with you that in schools is unfortunately a problem as a parent of two children, I've had a chance to meet in some nights, so my kids only go to the gym for training, so I see some cars parked in schools that I as a former top athlete couldn't buy. They're very expensive, and I don't know what they do in the schoolyards. And the other thing I can't agree with. Perhaps you could explain to me that the government, any government, can solve the problem of illegal drug imports. I have yet to see any prime minister of any European country come and say to Parliament, to my Parliament, anywhere, I have solved drugs in my country. Unfortunately, we can have a strategy, any strategy. Let's say one attempt to do something, to make something happen, to make at least one smaller part of those people who think about trying to make sure it's evil. The second thing, to me, is the most important thing, everything comes from the family. And we're, in my family, five brothers and a sister on the sixth, times three children on average. And never, never tried any stimulants, no drugs, nobody. 'Cause it's a home-grown thing for me. So the first thing for me is family first. And unfortunately with this here we say that nothing is right in Croatia, that all drug addicts in Croatia, that a glass of wine and a joint is the same. I don't think everything's so black and there's a lot of old people, older people in high places, not in politics that are much bigger junkies than these young people we want to protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96205	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96206	I didn't even think that any government could solve the drug problem forever and permanently. You're absolutely right. That's why I said it wasn't either this government or those government or any government. I was just talking about the sense of effort. I think we all agree. And as parents, I have a 13-year-old child, if I'm afraid of anything, if I'm afraid of anything, then I'm afraid of it. And I'm convinced there's no one between us, but otherwise among the citizens anyone who would not be more effective, more meaningful access to the fight against drugs. There is, there is a colleague like Markovanovic who is now using this for some kind of politicization in correcting incorrect allegations, completely meaningless, showing he doesn't understand the essence of the problem. And you don't have a problem with whether the leader of this party or that party tried one joint, so he's talking about it or not. That's not the problem. The problem is the organized effort of society. In the organized effort of society to contain one evil. And there's no effort to do that. Look out! Here, while you're talking about cars expensive in front of schools, while we're not in control of these schoolyards in primary schools, and the police can organize it, they can, let's make them represent. We're at the end of the term. There's going to be another call. Let's make them do it. Let's change the school programs. We'll do something. But this is clearly not good. Well, I'm not saying it's wrong because this is what this government has offered. Well, I'd be luckiest if the report was different, that it was talking about drugs getting smaller and that the addict was getting smaller. Well, no one happier than me. Neither of you, I suppose. But when that is not the case, then let us be critical of our actions no matter what government it was and change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96207	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96208	Thank you very much. I agree with fellow Trainer that something really radical needs to be changed. The fact is, too, what fellow Arabovic said that drugs cannot be eradicated but can be reduced to a minimum. Has this been done in the past? Obviously not, because the increase is huge. Here, three million crimes are committed annually in Croatia, selling one or two small doses of heroin. If the police solve only 10% of these crimes, 300 thousand such cases should be solved. It's just nobody in this country is able to make. And instead of coming here before parliamentary deputies, there is a report on how many dealers have been arrested, how many have been punished, how many have been taken away from them, as Croatia still sees, there is no law on the confiscation of property benefit acquired by criminal acts. If there was, this area of narcotics would surely have decreased significantly. And good fellow Stazic noticed, the subject needs to be introduced, he is in America in some states, the United States called "Our Health", and there students from primary and high school learn how to identify drugs, how to defend themselves from it, which are all kinds of drugs and things like that. Ask our children how many do they know about drugs? Today, one tablet of ecstasy is cheaper than one sandwich at school. That should also be considered when the strategies and action plans are adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96209	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96210	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! However, the purpose of each report would be, above all, that we should look at the feasibility and effectiveness of certain strategies or action plans. So, in this case, the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and that action plan. But if this report is read and the data is known that drug dealers, drug dealers, are making over two billion kuna a year, then it is evident that their work is booming and that the strategy as such and as an action plan as such does not suit the purpose of which we in the Croatian Parliament have brought them. So we have two options. Either we're not good with a national strategy and action plan or the competent authorities that are like that... in the action plan and strategy don't do their part of the job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, we have information that the state is investing, giving 64 million kunas to fight, to implement a strategy, or to fight drug abuse, on the other hand, we have 2 billion kunas to make narcotics and drug dealers. And apparently there's a new misunderstanding. Furthermore, if we see an increase in the number of addicts means, 24,000 and something is an official number, and over 100,000 is the figure that's estimated, so it's already talking about a lot of times where it's ringing, alarming the public and really taking measures. And one of the main measures would be to go into a decisive fight against drug dealers and drug mobs, but we need to force the institutions of the system, the institutions of the rule of law. This was done by my colleague, Mrs. Ruža Tomasic. It was hard, there were threats, there were assassinations. And today it's going on, but it's the only way to go against it, and then the police and the authorities start taking those measures that should have been taken as normal activity, like normal work. But unfortunately, they don't do it and we have to mean as agents also help Mrs. Tomasic and we have to help our parents, we need to help the youth to really reduce to a minimum number of drug users and give a clear message to the drug mob, drug dealers that perhaps at this point they're pushing the state, that we're losing the battle but that we won't lose the war. But that's why we're asking the institutions of the rule of law to do their job properly. I'll illustrate it to you with a few examples, and that's clear to you. In the local environments, I was present when Mrs. Tomasic was reporting low-level drug dealers and then Ruža said report to the local police. After that, these same people came back, and I was in three cases, and there are more cases. The local police said no, those data are incorrect, there's nothing about marijuana and there's still some other drugs. Afterwards, Mrs. Ruža called the top of the police interior ministry, the team left Zagreb and found it. Therefore, it is evident that the drug mafia is trying to infiltrate all structures and thus, unfortunately, succeeds in this part. So it's important to go up against the cause and the cause in this part of the drug mob, drug dealers, because the fight against the owners, against the consumers, is leading us in the wrong direction. We have to be aware that this fight is leading us in the wrong direction because we don't have some drug lords, we don't have a drug dealer that the rule of law has taken its own measures. However, except in the case of the action taken by Mrs Ruža Tomasic, these other figures say that we are dealing with the consequences and we are not dealing with the real cause. So this strategy, as it is obvious, is not what we want or this action plan is not what should be taken appropriate measures and that we have a decisive fight against the meaning of both drug mobs and drug dealers, and we must not be satisfied with this report because this report is essentially talking about the increase in the number of consummations and everything else. So it's really important that we all act together in that part. There's no need to fight politically here, but it's obvious that our prevention isn't good, that we don't have this educational part well worked out in schools. And the very fact that the ministry responsible for this part of prevention has something like 2 million and 400 million kuna tells us enough that it is no amount. And this 64 million fact itself that the state singles out all the items again speaks enough about that it's a small amount when we see here that over 2 billion kunas per year are made by drug mobs. Therefore, the only real way to fight this monster, against the drug mob, is to make the way for HSP and Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96211	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague said that Ruža Tomasic should be helped. I don't need help, I do my job as well as everyone else should because in Croatia there are about 100,000 addicts to 4.5 million people. It's a shame, it can be done if everyone does their job by local self-government, by parents, by children, by teachers, by county, by police, by all ministries, that number could be reduced to a tolerated minimum. I repeat, 100,000 addicts to one small Croatia is too many and it is an alarming number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96213	Second replica, respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96214	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Pero made a good point, but he didn't get that impression. The report's fine. It's very good because it shows actually what the true state of things is and it's bad. That's because it showed us where we are. 100,000 addicts, a non-functional prevention system, a system that doesn't respond in time, a struggle with the cause of such a condition is not sufficiently clear, a police apparatus insufficiently efficient. These are all arguments that indeed this debate should not have any political connotations but should give policy how to deal with and combat this evil that is not only of Croatia but of the evil that dwells in almost every country. But the level of looseness is actually the level that this evil can reach. 100 thousand as many as reportedly there are in Croatia who enjoy or who unfortunately are the consumers of this evil says that we are too elastic when it comes to a serious policy that needs to be put in place to fight. Therefore, no discount, including decriminalisation of relations, would also be another drawback and further downsizing in a struggle that must have a serious policy as a prerequisite for dealing with this evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96215	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96216	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what I said, pal. It's a sad fact that we're dealing with consequences and we're not dealing with the cause. We've established that the authorities don't unfortunately do their jobs because the number of consumers is on the rise, but if they did their job, then they would solve the causes. So, the determined fight and sanctioning of drug dealers, drug lords, not the fight against consumers, against petty drug dealers, and that's the wrong way to fight the drug mob, and that's why I think it should be one of the conclusions of our today's debate to put the institutions into operation because I have countless examples that I've seen along with Mrs. Ružo that at the lower levels of the system's institutions don't work. It doesn't work for us or the police, or the state's attorney, at lower levels, it's an example of Korčula, it's a lot of other examples, it's a lot of other examples, it's this one networking, importing where lawyers are also networked to imported, where again it's visible that by fighting narcotics, drug dealers, and anti-corruption. Because unfortunately, this kind of drug use could work, it's in action and corruption. And they're corrupt people from the state apparatus who don't do their job, some people don't do their job on purpose, and some people don't know why they don't. But we've located those culprits. So let's take these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96217	Thank you. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96218	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. The objective of the 2006 and 2012 strategy is certainly a healthy individual and thus a healthy Croatian family, which is a prerequisite for the economy, the general economic and social development of our country. According to this strategy, the role of all entities in the Republic of Croatia has been outlined and when it comes to prevention and when it comes to drug prevention, the Government, the Parliament that adopted this strategy as well as state bodies are taking certain steps and certain measures to combat and prevent it. I would say that units of local self-government depend on each other, but a good part of the unit of local self-government has accepted this strategy and as one of its obligations to have healthy young people, healthy girls in their midst, thus healthy society. They are certainly NGOs, that they should be supported in this process and in this daily business. And I would highlight the great role of the church as well as other religious communities that have always been loud, point to problems, and send messages to individuals, families, young girls, young people on the threshold of life. I didn't normally mean to report on this subject, however, I was called by my friends, my fellow citizens from the New Way Association in Sinj, and they asked me to present some of their observations, some of their drug experience on abuse. They have been working for 10 years and as their fellow citizen and parliamentary representative here in front of the Croatian public, I give them the sincerest congratulations for everything they have done in the past 10 years. Before I put out some of their observations and some of their thinking, I asked them certain questions that they had given me the following answers. I asked them what they thought about the competent ministries, state bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and their support when it comes to what they have as an Association in their work. Their answer was positive and they said yes. When it comes to the city, the city and the county also consider it their assessment that the support on their part is adequate, not only financially but that it is, that it is and give them de facto and one moral support. What I was interested in as a representative is what their thinking is, the ones that work in the group on repression. Their answer was that the repression is necessary but that it does not give, cannot give those results, the expected results and that should put the greatest emphasis on the preventions for which they were founded, for which they joined together and founded the New Way association. What they think is that since their work is voluntary and that they build these young people, young ladies, girls who are involved in an association of enthusiasm, out of love for their fellow citizens, towards their neighbors and their families, it is that they need employment not in that association alone, but that they would need one competent professional person, if they consider prevention as the main driver of their work. So you need one competent professional in the first place for education, which could cover one, two, three or more associations but which would be exclusively for those associations in disposition. And in that direction, my proposal would be to have the government's office, or the competent ministry consider that initiative. And that, in that direction, funds are provided for the employment of one person who would cover means several associations but would only be on the disposition of those associations. What they also consider necessary is the establishment of school prevention committees. I can say that with that action we started in Sinj ca. has a year, two precisely when this strategy was brought here to the Croatian Parliament. We know that the goal, that the aim of prevention, of these preventive school boards is not only a question of drugs but of smoking and alcohol. And certainly in the first row, such school boards can educate children, point to problems, educate their families. And I think that by setting up these committees in all these committees in all of this, it should be mandatory in all primary and secondary schools and that the results on prevention would be far better and far more effective. I would say that I am ultimately supporting this proposal and all that the government does, the competent ministry and the government's office. I would say that the problem of drugs is not only the problem of Croatian society, it's one global problem, it's one world problem, it's the problem of the modern world, the problem of modern man, modern family. And I think that with one combination in the first row, one part of the repression, but first of all through prevention, through education, that good results can be achieved, results, other countries' experiences should be seen. Croatia cannot be an oasis, it cannot be an isolated island without these monsters unfortunately. I think we share, not just our environment, but share the fate of the modern, entire modern world. And I believe that this strategy is going in the direction, precisely in that direction, that all the factors of Croatian society should be involved, included in this process. Politics, government calling, institutions and anyone else and some yelling in the Parliament about this issue, I don't think it's good. I think we need to reach a political consensus when it comes to countering prevention. And I believe that this strategy points to the problem but also points to solutions that are ongoing, which are in the process. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96219	Three replicas. First respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague gave a narrow picture of the problem from the area of which he naturally knows best about relationships. Of course she can be universal. However, all those who, taking part in prevention either as individuals or as associations, those who participate in the elimination of the consequences of drug use as individuals or as associations of course are, their work is extremely valuable, almost immeasurable, human. However, this particular report says that it is still an unequal battle. The number of drug addicts to nearly 100,000, the consequences of such a condition, speak of an almost alarming situation. And it is evident that no individual or association can cope with this situation as widespread and organised as possible. A firm policy is needed to organise all the components of those who now work hard on the ground but simply cannot deal with the system because they do not only have dealers. They have a system that has its own head, its own politics, its own organization if you will. Therefore, it is only possible for them to oppose an equally serious system that will fight it. On the other hand, the fact is that they've been exposed in the last few years to small places, small cities from large urban centers. This is about the new dimension that this policy has taken. And we need to position our defence policy on these facts right now. But only organized society, only serious politics with all institutions, can we now say: police, police, police. The police are not the ones who can be the best organized, which will completely prevent or reduce these, these conditions. All systems of public administration...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96221	Thank you very much. A representative of, thank you very much, thank you very much. So you have to, you have five minutes already. [[Intruder: Must be included in this.]] Hold on a second. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96222	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Markov, I, well perhaps yours was a perception that I was speaking from one, from a narrow point of view. No, I don't. I spoke on behalf of an association that encounters one, some problems, and how they see certain things. Sure, sure. And the strategy doesn't say that NGOs and who they should be are the main carriers when it comes to prevention, when it comes to repression. They have their place, they are one addition to one general strategy. But you must be aware that regardless of our political views, our political views in Croatia on the issue,... It's not enough in itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're talking about general politics. We need one European, we need one global consensus on the fight against drugs and then when other mechanisms are used when it comes to the judiciary, the police and so on. It's in terms of suppressing and this repressive part. And when it comes to this part of the Ministry, the Government's Office, I believe that, based on the experiences of these and other associations, their views are positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96223	... One moment. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] The second replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96224	Thank you, Mr. President. So a fellow representative rightly found that Croatia has a National Anti-Addiction Strategy and this strategy was brought by this Assembly. However, the fact that we have adopted a strategy does not mean much in the fight against drug abuse. This strategy should also be implemented. This strategy contains both political will and you and us and everyone here. And I hope in that political will we have found an agreement. In our opinion, however, this strategy is not being implemented. And if that's how it is, let's say, an example as I mentioned in the debate, it's... as state communes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the Minister of Health, self-initiated, past both your will and our will, and past the will of the Government, transforms the community into something else, and we also have in the strategy the need to strengthen the cooperation and development of the civil sector in the fight against drug abuse. Because the civil sector has the only rehab community, and for two associations there is a final agreement. However, this report shows that no stronger relations with the civilian sector. It's not the civilian sector that's getting stronger. And so the associations provided 45% less help to addicts than in the last year or their families by 35%. And now if we have the information and if we have the document, if we have a civil sector letter that he's looking for a meeting with the Ministry of Health a year and a half ago because the situation in the civil sector is unsustainable. They can no longer be financed. They have concluded contracts with the state, however, cannot be financed with the amount fixed as early as 2001. And if the Minister doesn't have time for a year and a half. Nor do I accept, let alone do anything else with them, then indicate that there are significant steps to the strategy, the National Strategy against Evil, against, the fight against this addiction. So we don't want to politicize. We do not want to deal with politics, but we do claim that this is exactly what this report shows us about all the scarcity, the depravity and the incompleteness of these systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96225	Thank you. Thank you. [[Intruder: One system has begun to operate]] Replication response, thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac. [[Intruder: However it is not yet finished.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96226	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague I'd like to answer very briefly. You questioned the political will. It is a strategy, a strategy from 2006, 2012 that we brought to the Government's proposal here in the Croatian Parliament is an expression of that political will. When it comes to associations, I think neither of us in the House nor of any member of the Government that any obligations that the state bodies, which the Croatian Parliament or anyone else needs on this matter, to be answered and to be implemented, do not occur to anyone to transfer them to associations. Associations are just one segment in... This one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Theirs, I'm looking at their role in the first row that these miles are, unfortunately, people who have fallen into that hell in some way they're much simpler to establish communication than if it comes from a civil servant, someone who may be a professional in that business, and mostly not someone who works in the police. This is one fact and associations have their place and yes, they should still have not only financial but also all other support and support in this sense which I also spoke about in my presentation. So I wouldn't do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96227	Just a minute. And the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96228	Thank you, Mr. President. So I figured out your idea of setting up school prevention committees well-intentioned to get as many people involved as possible. You told both primary and secondary schools and that then the results would be more effective. I'm not sure we'd be much more efficient because what would that committee do? Whether he'd record certain deviating behaviors or not, I don't know, control whether he has a drug dealer around the school or communicate with the police, etc. It seems to me that it might be much more effective to introduce a whole range of quality programs that are primarily related to education of children, but also to the education of teachers, teachers and school educators who will be educated to recognize such deviating behaviors. I would especially like to point out that in these young people, if we are talking about, of course, high school, potential and primary school, we should not be treated as priors, but rather as potential users of intoxicating drugs and constantly, we should talk about it in such a way as to first and foremost as some partners, because these children and through education processes, therefore through prevention, must be sufficiently aware of the dangers they are threatened, or should be interpreted, we should accept them and place them as partners in this general campaign against drug abuse. So I see some kind of solution in a number of these programs, in this report you see in Istria County I know in my Varazdin County that we have also co-financed such programs that have been implemented and quality-accepted by teachers, educators and also from children in primary and secondary schools and I think it should somehow be a guideline as many people sensitize in this joint fight against drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96229	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is the first sentence of this report that mentions a worrying fact. Although the number of people treated for drug abuse is growing in the Republic of Croatia, the trend of increased supply and availability of drugs is alarming, and thus the number of drug users especially young people. Therefore, neither the national strategy to combat drug abuse in 2006-2012 nor the 2006-2009 Action Plan contributed unfortunately to drug repression or to reducing the number of drug dealers as well as to the quantities and types of drugs available on the street. As reported in the text, the total number of 23 thousand 990 registered addicts by the end of 2006 would be useful for data on the total number of addicts of earlier years to compare the movement of the total number of registered addicts compared to the number of treated and thus to monitor the success of this treatment. The report also shows that the treatment communities provide more and more quality rehab programmes, so it is incomprehensible to announce the Minister of Health's decision to abolish the treatment community's programme at "Pulc" in Rijeka and re-appropriate it with other purposes of commercial nature. Although in 2005 a paragraph in the state budget relating to the "Pulac" treatment community was abolished in this report mentions the technical review of the building on "Pulc" and the deadline for removing the observed deficiencies in order to issue a useful permit during this year, so I wonder if there is any, whether you have any information at all at what stage, whether the building has been renovated and whether a valid permit has been issued. If it isn't, why isn't it and when it will be? However, I am most interested in why the area of the "Pulac" treatment community is being redeployed without consulting the city of Rijeka despite the existence of a contract between the city and the ministry of joint investment in the construction of which the first phase was estimated at 10 million kuna, and we heard during the debate and that 17 million has been invested so far. The city of Rijeka carried out a plot worth 36 thousand 600 kuna and co-financed the construction of a municipal infrastructure with a million kuna. In view of the fact that the State budget has no longer been in place in the treatment community "Pulac" built buildings stand and fail, and with the Ministry's intention of making such a decision if implemented, the city of Rijeka would be played. In order to at least mitigate the damage to this decision if implemented, the city of Rijeka has proposed a compromise solution to the problem that the Rehabilitation Centre of Rijeka from the current two locations would fully move to "Pulac" and the Centre for Autism to the former space of the Centre for Rehabilitation on the Potok. Such a solution would also satisfy the needs of the Centre for Rehabilitation and the Centre for Autism, and the issue of dissatisfaction would also be addressed by the population of the Local Committee Pulac by accommodation of the therapeutic community in Pula. As the need for the therapeutic community for addicts remains current, I hope that the ministry will not fully give up the realization of its project and find another location for it in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. As a long-time active athlete, there is no mention of the problem of drug dealing and drug abuse that has recently appeared in sport through the offer of so-called. food supplements without a declaration or suspicious declaration of origin and composition which have a long-term fatal effect on athletes, and increasingly and fatal outcomes. Although we have recently had the opportunity to hear the news of the death of 22-year-old and 13-year-old footballers, it is also possible as a consequence of the use of steroids or suspicious dietary supplements, there is no case in this report, and unfortunately no systematic solution to the quality health care of athletes through the Sport Act. No one has started dealing with this problem in Croatia yet, so I wonder how many athletes have to lose their lives to find it a problem. As this report on the implementation of the National Drugs Prevention Strategy, it is a pity that other counties are not included in the V chapter except Istria, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska and the City of Zagreb, although there are data on the Internet for them, because that would make the report truly complete and therefore more high-quality. The national strategy highlights the basic objectives of reducing demand and reducing the supply of intoxicating drugs are difficult to achieve without the cooperation of all institutions and society as a whole with regard to current problems as potential causes of entering the world of drugs such as high unemployment, difficulties in finding first jobs, violence in schools and in the family as well as at work, and there is no need to ignore the problem of increasing delinquency, prostitution, homelessness and crime. So without solving the essential problems of society and without quality prevention, we cannot and certainly will not solve the problem of drug addiction and abuse, no matter how well-written strategies and programmes are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96231	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96232	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Perman, there is really no success in the fight against addiction no matter how many strategies we have, especially if we have the absences of the necessary activities, and also in regional self-government, and here in the report says in the Split-Dalmatia County no meeting of the County Commission has been held, and for a long time they have not appointed a new president of the County Commission. But I didn't answer the line for it, but it's like this to your last words, but I wanted to look back on the question... which you've fantastically elaborated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Indeed, 17 million kuna is too much money to be gambled by an absolute health minister and it is the health minister who wants to redeploy it regardless of others. However, our health minister is not an exhibitionist only in the matter of the re-purpose of the population. This exhibitionism and lack of knowledge of the general needs of this system is evident, for example. I've already said in my statement that the state has completed accommodation contracts with two associations, and the others are not closed. Where there are closed agreements, he pays the fines. And now at all the demands of these associations to increase the capital, because it is not possible to function, the health minister responds as follows. In an association with which there is no agreement on mutual relations and the accommodation of these addicts, it gives them 500 thousand kuna, and the association that has the contract, which cannot provide a quality service because of the lack of funds, gives them 300 thousand kuna. Well, now that our minister's exhibitionism is being considered, is it a miracle that we have a report like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96233	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96234	Well, thank you, Mrs. Lalic. In view of what you mentioned as an example in the Split-Dalmatia County, I can only say that, on this example, the city of Rijeka, as well as the entire local self-government in our county, has shown and shows a constant interest in solving this problem, but unfortunately here is this incomprehensible decision simply not knowing how and how this will start the project and what the final outcome will have for the complete population of addicts not only in our county, but also elsewhere, and here on every asked question unfortunately we do not get answers. I hope here's where Mr. Secretary of State might still be able to give at least some of the answers to these questions that I've asked here, so things might get a little clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96235	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96236	Your Honor, Mr. President. First of all, I will limit the limits of my incompetence. I'm not an expert in addiction, even less a good expert in therapeutic doctrines and procedures. I'm going to talk about the phenomenon of addiction in a broader sense as an extremely interesting sociological phenomenon. I think that Croatian society as a post-transitional, positivity society is exposed to the addictions of the widest spectrum. So from the Greek addiction that haunts our own children, neighbors, means in a society where a small group of people, 30 of them, 40 of them are so rich that children grow up in normal middle-class families and observe people who, for birthdays, for proms, get Ferraris, I don't know sports Mercedes S class or A class, I don't know anymore. So there's a kind of addiction that I'd almost say subconscious character. As for other types of addiction, I often talk about addiction to tobacco and alcohol addiction. If you are looking at the European rankings of public health accidents, you often just said that we are directly conditioned by smoking diseases, which are mouth, throat, lungs and respiratory system, either in second or third places in the world. The Croatian people were traditionally one people who was prone to suicide except in some local communities in the part of Slavonia and part of Croatia's Zagorje. Already today, suicides have led us to 13th place among 60 countries in Europe. By accident, we broke into the 8th place, etc., etc. Therefore, when we talk about how to deal with the problem of addiction, we need to look at addiction in this broader sense because sociopsychological, social, social roots of addiction regardless of the forms of addiction are more or less similar or equal. Someone escapes into alcohol, someone escapes into addiction to opiates, someone escapes into addiction to pills, pills especially among lonely elderly people in Croatia, except that it is economically very expensive also has many pathological elements. And in that sense, it would be good to consult both psychiatrists and people who have experience in therapeutic communities in the future because it would be good to engage more serious sociologists and social psychologists. Unfortunately, the Croatian public in these consulting or media statements is directed towards Mirjana Krizmanic who has not written any serious books in her life. If you open every public medium, even your own TV set, it turns out to be an expert on everything and everything. In this sense, the widely observed phenomenon of addiction leads to what he tried to talk about by his colleague Kramaric. He sometimes, so fast he thinks that his words don't get to show him what he meant to say, and I assure you what he meant to say was almost genius. So Croatia is building a modern, open society. Her openness is multiple. It is primarily open on the Balkan route of human trafficking, organised criminals, and narcotics. It's open in a tourist sense. It becomes an open immigration country without public immigration criteria. Well then you have one situation where you do not have clear criteria, then enough uneducated people like one of our former colleagues publicly plead in a racist way about wanted immigrants, so they say that Croats should first move in Christians, and everything else, which harms God's own party, but they do the damage to us too. There's a phenomenon I'd call a body cult phenomenon that we don't control at all. At this point in Croatia, you may have hundreds or two thousand different spaces where different people exercise without any control. Protein, steroid preparations, insights in these areas are very limited and this creates different kinds of physical, emotional damage and different visions of addiction. It is mentioned that the problem of public creation is important to its own so-called. Adolescence experiences with joints. You see, civilized politicians in the world long ago, because of the different political accounts, they used to say I don't know they tried marijuana or joint. Some if they live in America, it's not even harmful if they perform in Caliphonia or Florida to say they have experience with cocaine. However, when it happens with us and when it wants to collect some kind of sympathy from one part of the younger constituency, I would apply the logic of zero tolerance. And when it comes to dealing with these people and acting educationally on them. Unfortunately, some can no longer be affected because they are not alive, and I don't know if they can be affected by those who in some way have revived the retrograde consciousness within their own party and are trying to revive a part of the history that certainly doesn't serve them or us or that party. Finally, we return to institutions that should help provide emotional, social and any other support in this area. Certainly that key unit is family. It's not about the stability of the family. It's about the quality of the family. It can happen to anyone that his child came into a bad company, that she had an emotional crisis, that she had come under a lot of pressure. So that trouble can happen to anyone. However, without involving the family in dealing with the problem, it is not possible. Then it's the neighborhood problem. You see, the city lived in Zagreb. I have been noticing a phenomenon of Zagreb's settlement for several years. From the banal forms where the peasant biorhythm is revived. Let's just say our mayor liked to open the streets and waterways at four, five o'clock in the morning. That's how I lived in the country. So, before the rooster burns, I go to the field, water, dig, etc. However, when such a phenomenon of urban ruralisation is changed on a broad spectrum then green areas are eradicated in the city, then the city is savagely developing. If we observe what will happen to Zagreb from the perspective of the next fifty years when people watch what we did in our time, they will conclude that we have built shopping centres and we have eradicated football courts, basketball courts, urban gathering areas, greenery, holding girls' hands, first kisses, writing letters and hunting pigeons. It will no longer be in the City of Zagreb. And that's why the City of Zagreb and the nature of the City of Zagreb rebelled against it. She rebelled. The streets are collapsing, people are falling into the basements of that city, nature tells us something's wrong with us. But keep your mouth shut. Even the leader of the SDP party is silent. Everyone treats the mayor as if he's not from Milanovic's headquarters at all, but as if it's exterioral, as if it's some kind of E.T. that showed up there. Therefore, if we want to deal with all urban problems, they cannot be dealt with by clinicians or psychiatrists or non-productive psychologists, in this sense Furio Radin, one of the most serious Croatian psychologists, but no one consults him in such matters. And I'm gonna end up with a sad story about family. You're witnessing a sad story these days. One man wants to put a healthy woman in a mental institution. He's gonna make her crazy. She wants to be forced to hospitalize her, to take away from her the property that she owns by law. Because he belongs to the so-called so-called. The left circle, everyone shuts up. Croatia is a country of general silence. You must be sure that nature will rebel too. That's why I would ask you from the ministry to demedicate dealing with these serious problems because after the war in the transition of the birth of capitalism in which people say they're proud of trying marijuana and joint, and some have tried but will never publicly boast. Isn't that right, President? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96237	I haven't tried any opiate, no drugs. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Good to see you, too. The club of representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja, five minutes of debate. He's gone. He loses his right to a word as well as a respected representative of Ruža Tomasic on behalf of the HSP's Club of Representatives. The Secretary of State has no intention of giving final consideration. I'm finishing the debate on this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15 hours with a debate on the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2007. Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the control of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia in 2006. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. "A proposed report is accepted." Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Accepted conclusion by 90 for, 35 versus and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, as from 6 October 2005, have the obligation to submit every six months a six-month report on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with specific reference to planned and unused programmes withdrawn and unused funds and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds. This is therefore the second report to be submitted so far, since we have a national fund and since the Republic of Croatia has received accreditation for the use of pre-accession funds. The first report was for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2006. This report was made for the first semester of 2007. I would only point out here that so far agreed programmes for CARDS 2001, CARDS 2002, CARDS 2003 and CARDS 2004 have been completed, and over 96% for CARDS 2001 and 2002, and for CARDS 2003, as much as 97% of what was programmed and agreed, and for CARDS 2004. 94.6%. By 30 June 2007, the European Commission's funds were requested at 73.5m euros and 59.4m euros were found. In fact, the difference is only related to the period which it is necessary, therefore, that from the moment it is requested until the moment of the receipt of the asset is determined at the expense of the national fund. What is really important to point out is that in the CARDS in 2003 we have projects worth 28.6 million euros, so 97.7% of decentralised funds. By June 30th, 20 million were awarded for 200,000 euros or 70.5% of the agreed amount. It should be noted that the deadline for the implementation of the projects is 31 December 2008 which means, therefore, 31 December 2010, which means that there is actually enough time to spend and use the remaining 8.6m euros that have not actually been paid and used for CARDS in 2003. What's here in this report I hope there will be representatives and good information. Therefore, details are given of all the CARDS contracts in 2003 and the detailed agreed amounts and amounts paid here, so paid amounts until 30 June 2007. As regards the CARDS in 2004, whose contract ended on 29 June of this year, so in 2007, only recently all contracts were completed, the amount was agreed on either 44m euros or 94.6% of the funds intended to contract to the Republic of Croatia by 30 June for projects paid 5.6m euros or 12.1% of the agreed amount. What should therefore be said is that the deadline for the implementation of the projects is 30 December 2009, so it is two more years and therefore has plenty of time to use all 44m euros agreed on. Also, payments two more years after implementation of the projects are made, by 30 December 2011. These may seem to be a long year and a long time, but they are common for the implementation of pre-accession programmes not only for Croatia but also for other countries that have entered the European Union. For example, even Slovenia still after entering, so two and a half years have passed, so they still have projects from the PHARE programme agreed in 2003 and 2004 respectively, so Croatia will have at the moment when it enters the European Union, still pre-accession programmes to be implemented and implemented. Furthermore, if we can talk a little bit about the future, for PHARE 2005 the programme was signed on 17 May 2006. The deal ends for the national PHARE programme on 30 November 2007. So far, several programmes are also cross-border cooperation, and in this sense we have a 3m-euro neighbourhood programme, the PHARE Adriatic 3m-euro programme, the 641 000-euro nuclear security programme, and what may be most important, the biggest PHARE programme in 2005, the national programme of 71.5m euros. Also in 2006, whose contract will be only in 2008, amounting to 61m euros. So far we can also say, ISPA programs, so with PHARE and CARDS we have currently six programs, the reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, for which we can say the published ad, so tender and in that sense this project will be implemented and used. The program for water and wastewater of the Carlovac that's about to end. It's the Bikarac Regional Waste Management Center. The preparation of lists of projects in the environmental protection sector and the preparation of lists of projects in the transport sector and technical assistance to the central financing and settlement unit. So the Ministry of Finance has provided detailed information with this report on projects for CARDS, PHARE and ISPA-U. I would also like to say, and here are a detailed review of the agreed projects for SAPARD, actually for agriculture. In total, 7.6m euros were agreed in the first and second competition. 7.6 million euros are mentioned, and the amount thus intended for the first and second measures is 14.7 million euros, which means that over 50% of the projects have been agreed by SAPHARD, which is an extremely good result if we compare ourselves with countries currently in the European Union, which have a much, much lower level of absorption for SAPHARD, which actually gives and sheds a very good light on this part of the use of pre-accession programmes, as from the SAPHARD programme, i.e. from the rural development programme at the time of entry into the European Union, will use the largest part of the funds from the European Union's common budget. Here we have also, by measure and by name of the project, detailedly informed the Parliament, therefore, of the agreed amount, of the amount to be paid under the SAPHAARD programme and the amount to be paid from the national budget. What is important in the end is that the EU pre-accession management system sets out in detail the rules of the European Commission in the section relating to irregularities and fraud, and requires the establishment of a system of monitoring, reporting of irregularities and fraud and, accordingly, undertakes a number of activities. Each body participating in the implementation of pre-accession programmes shall have clear, comprehensive written procedures for the handling of irregularities, the existence of procedures, detection and management of irregularities is one of the basic preconditions for the establishment of an internal and external system of supervision and control through which the processes are corrected and improved. What is important to say, therefore, is that during the first half of 2007 all bodies involved in the implementation of pre-accession programmes have had additional training of employees in the area of irregularities so that everyone can recognise what is even an irregularity and how to actually act when an irregularity occurs. The Ministry of Finance also established a department to combat irregularities and fraud at the Ministry of Finance, so-called AFKOS, who directly communicates with OLAF, is, in fact, the European Commission's body dealing with irregularities and fraud. What I want to say at the end of the first 6 months in the field of pre-accession programmes is not an irregularity in implementation. Finally, I would just say that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia have shown that they have managed to adopt and apply in practice European rules for the implementation of projects financed by the European Union's assistance programme. The confirmation of this, to repeat, are the CARDS programmes in 2003 and 2004, which were given to us by the Ministry of Finance and the Government to contract, which were agreed at a high percentage of 97.7% and 94.6%, respectively. If the experience of other countries of all percentages above agreed is compared, more than 80% are considered an exceptional success. Of course, what is the goal is to keep the trend of successful results, i.e. equally well agreed and implement projects designed to finance from the PHARE programme, ISPA programme and SAPhard programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96241	Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing this agenda. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2007. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. The abovementioned report, the proposed report, is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 129 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96244	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2006 is in front of you, which the Agency is obliged to deliver to the Croatian Parliament for adoption in accordance with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act. In 2006, the Agency adopted a total of 246 acts, including 77 decisions in administrative matters relating to the assessment of the agreement, abuse of the ruling position and assessment of the concentration permit, and 41 opinions on draft laws, other acts and other expert opinions. Comparative statistics from year to year show an increase in the number of items received, but at the same time both the Agency's better and more up-to-date in their resolution, although the growth of the number of employees does not monitor the growth of the number of cases received, i.e. the Agency's activity. In addition to acting on a request from the parties, the Agency shall also have the possibility to initiate proceedings under official duty, where it has knowledge of a possible breach of the Competition Protection Act or if the party wishes to remain anonymous and the Agency shall establish that the conduct of a particular procedure is in the public interest. With the implementation of administrative procedures in its work, the Agency shall make efforts to meet the business and judicial community and national authorities with rules on the protection of competition in order to achieve, to the greatest extent possible, the preventive purpose of the law, i.e. our existence. In this regard, we organise counselling for entrepreneurs and judges in order to expand knowledge in this area because it is a relatively young branch of law which is very little experience in Croatian legal practice, and I would dare say knowledge. The Agency shall also cooperate with the authorities in preparing certain draft laws and other acts in order to comply with the principles of competition at an early stage of production. As regards the application of the State Aid Act, the Agency resolved some 94 cases in 2006 by administrative solutions or by means of opinions on acts prescribed by the State Aid Act. It is important here to point out that every year there is an increasing discipline of state support providers in relation to the provisions, i.e. compliance with the provisions of the law, and in particular that concerns institutions, i.e. the ministries and all those bodies of the central government. However, there is still a lot of work to be done to educate the authorities of regional and local authorities in order to report on timely state support proposals to the Agency. In view of the complexity of this area, the Agency is also seeking to achieve a more direct cooperation with state aid providers, and to this end organises regular joint coordination meetings with a view to effective implementation of the law and compliance with the obligations and Stabilisation and Association Agreements and in fact preparations for negotiations on the competition chapter. In addition to the number of indicators on resolved cases in the Agency's section, allow me to refer briefly to the basic aspects of competition protection policy and state aid control which marked the past period and which will focus on the Agency's activities and on its future work. After almost ten years of experience in the application of the Competition Protection Regulation and the requirements arising from the negotiations on membership in the European Union in this area, it is possible to determine with certainty how the existing competition protection system should be improved and brought to a level that guarantees its real effectiveness and full implementation. In the first instance, this refers to the need to further build up the existing legal framework, not only the Competition Protection Act but also the rules relating to judicial powers in this area, and to a significant increase in the resources necessary for the work of the Agency in order to train them professionally, human and materially to carry out complex procedures for detecting and determining the most serious infringements of rules on the protection of competition. As we have already pointed out on several occasions before this High House, it is the need for the Agency to have the powers to directly sanction the infringements of the law, in particular the Law on the Protection of Competition, and the need to, unlike the existing solution, where two courts solve each of the decisions of the Agency in their own part, and the other to appeal at the level of the penalties imposed, ensure that one court instance decides on the legality of the decisions of the Agency and the penalties imposed. Such a system is generally accepted among most members of the European Union and it is a standard that guarantees the effectiveness and legal certainty of the entrepreneurs concerned by the Agency's decisions. At the same time, as the practice of the most developed countries shows, such an approach guarantees the necessary degree of general and specific prevention or deterrence of entrepreneurs from breaking the law and thus, in fact, an indirectly higher level of protection of consumers' interests. Therefore, in 2006, the Agency launched initiatives before the relevant state authorities to move towards amendments to legislation that would allow for this, and it is planned to adopt this legislation in 2008. The second important feature of the Agency's work in 2006 relates to the area of State aid control. Since the adoption of the Law on State aid at the end of 2005 and the gradual takeover of European standards into national legislation, therefore, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia significantly increases the responsibility and competence of the Agency in this area compared to the previous year 2005. By adopting these rules, the Agency has received all those powers in the exercise of control over the allocation of State aid to the European Commission as a supranational body in relation to the Member States. Although a positive shift in the state aid allocation policy remains to address the problem of granting state aid to activities whose business and survival on the market is traditionally dependent on state aid, i.e. the system is still needed, the current system is to comply with the law and the sublaws adopted in the meantime. This is also a condition for the start of negotiations with the European Union because the Chapter-market competition sets out the criteria that require the adoption of shipbuilding restructuring plans and the iron and steel industry to establish their market sustainability without the state support so far. During the last year, a restructuring process was launched that has already moved far away in the iron and steel industry and both ironworks have already been privatised, while in the field of shipbuilding the initial activities are also launched, i.e. the plans of restructuring that were submitted to the agency for evaluation. The aim of these plans is to reroute Croatian shipyards to market operations and make them competitive by strengthening their own efficiency and productivity, not by using taxpayers' money which, in the current or current way, directly financed foreign customers or borne the costs of the shipbuilding business. In other words, with or without pressure from the European Union there is no alternative to the process of recovery and restructuring of this important Croatian industry. The Agency will therefore be active in the process in accordance with its legal powers during the past year, but also through the transfer of knowledge and experience and best practices to other countries and the European Union in order to implement restructuring and end in a way that guarantees sustainability, economic sustainability and the market of Croatian shipyards. In doing so, it should be stressed that the mentioned activities will therefore, both shipbuilding and the iron and steel industries once the restructuring process and cease to operate with the loss of power to receive state support but only those designed to strengthen their competitiveness, such as support for innovation, research and development, environmental protection, new investment and the like. So those that will facilitate their rerouting to new products and new technologies. In the context of the Agency’s work, it should also take into account the fact that its competences cover only those areas in which competition is permitted by law, but it cannot act in those areas where the market is excluded or where the laws or regulations of certain undertakings guarantee a monopoly or exclusive right to carry out certain activities, or where competition is prevented or restricts access to a particular market. Although a significant shift has been made over the past few years in this area and a number of laws have been passed which have launched the process of deregulation and liberalisation and those traditionally most protected sectors such as telecommunications, energy, transport and the like, we are still in practice far from establishing real market relations in most of the mentioned activities. What is also worrying about lately is the increased trend of closure and attempts to monopolise certain markets, in particular free professions, or to provide services to the attorney's office, audit, pharmacy and the like, and all under the exception of providing better and better quality services. In this respect, the Agency shall use its legal powers to point out by expert opinions the consequences of accepting solutions that make it difficult or prevent open access for new entrepreneurs to certain markets or free tariffs or prices, and the fact that the objectives and protection of a particular profession or quality assurance of a given service can be achieved by means of less harmful to free competition and what is most important for consumers, users of those services. In other words, the agency advocates legal solutions that are encouraging the development of entrepreneurship, or those that do not necessarily protect the established entrepreneurship structure on a particular market, but allow its development in the interest of freedom of choice of end-user and better quality and lower prices and tariffs. For now, our opinions and suggestions have not always come across understanding and acceptance, we know the case of legal services, audit services or taxi transport. These initial failures will not discourage us, so, in accordance with their legal powers, the agencies will continue to explore individual markets, analyse the situation on them and point to the possibility and need to improve how the institutional framework will also launch procedures in cases where individual entrepreneurs are used by illegal means to preserve their market positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96245	Thank you. There are no reports. Excuse me, before that, I apologize to the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, President-in-Office Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96246	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the proposer, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 66th session held on 28 September 2007 discussed the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2006 which was in accordance with Article 36(1) of the Croatian Parliament President’s opinion. The Competition Protection Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by an act of 10 August 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this Annual Report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. In the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate stated that the agency solved 246 cases in the field of competition protection in 2006. The need for additional funding for the Agency's work has been stressed so that it can deal with significant and continuous increases in jobs and needs of employee training. Further harmonisation with European Union legislation and in the area of more effective opposition is required for entrepreneurs who make up banned cartels. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2006 was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96247	I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2006 I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposed report is accepted.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 129 votes unanimously accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96250	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. Therefore, before you there is also a State aid report for 2006 which the Agency has drawn up in accordance with Article 20. State aid laws. This annual report contains a standardised display of state aid in nominal and relative values, resulting in last year's allocation of state aid of 8 billion and 587 million kuna, which represents a 63% increase compared to the previous year 2005. In relative terms, therefore, compared to the gross social product, state support amounts to 3.43% in 2006 which is also growth of 49% compared to the previous year when it was 2.3% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. When the total amount of State aid is exempted from the support granted to agriculture, fisheries and transport, the nominal amount of State aid amounts to around 4 billion kuna, which accounts for 1.7% of gross social product. This statistical separation is done for the reason that agriculture and transport are part of specific policies and similar policy or methodology is used by the European Commission in its reports. The annual report provides an indication of the state aid granted and according to State support instruments as well as according to the user categories of support. Thus, in 2006, subsidies and guarantees as instruments were dominated by state aid while sectoral support was the most represented category of State aid. In fact, of the total amount of support granted to shipbuilding was allocated 2.6 billion kuna or around 30%, the turnover of 1.8 billion kuna or about 22% and the agriculture of 2.5 billion kuna is also around 30%. Therefore, these data show that state support in the nominal and relative amount in 2006 is significantly higher than in 2004 and 2005. This is particularly the case when it comes to shipbuilding and railways as a result of a new methodological approach, as finally all the financial guarantees allocated to shipbuilding or subsidies and railways are covered by this report. And when it comes to agriculture, there has been a real increase in support of around 27%. It encourages the proper but real growth of horizontal and regional support and, in particular, a series of legislative solutions and programmes assessed by the Agency in accordance with the State Aid Act, which increasingly replace sectoral support with those intended to encourage new investments, research and development or promote regional development and the like. This indicates a gradual acceptance of the EU-related approach, less but better targeted state support. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to work and encourage policies to introduce as many horizontal support as possible to the majority or to all who meet the prescribed conditions or criteria and are intended not to entrepreneurs but to their activities, which are turned to new or better improved products and services, modern technologies, the training of employees, environmental protection and similar and less support granted to individual users who use them for their current business or which are maintained on the market thanks to state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96251	Thank you. Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Representative Drago Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96252	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the agency, the esteemed MPs. The Committee for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 66th session held on 28 September 2007 discussed the Annual Report on State aid for 2006 which was in line with Article 20(1) of the Croatian Parliament's proposal. The State aid Act was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency by means of an act of 10 August 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the opening presentation was submitted by the proposer. The debate noted that the report's data still do not fully reflect the state of aid granted in the Republic of Croatia because all providers do not report state support to the Agency. In 2006, state support in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 8 billion and 587 million kuna, which grew 63% compared to 2005. The share of total state aid in the gross social product was 2.3% in 2005 and in 2006. 3.4%. The growth of support based on the inclusion of support contained in shipbuilding rehabilitation guarantees has had a major impact on the overall level of support granted in 2006. ... Support to shipbuilding total support, not counting in agriculture, fishing and transport, would amount to 2 billion and 809 million kuna, which means 1.12% of gross social product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This suggests the unsustainability of further shipbuilding in this way. The problem of shipbuilding support is also an obstacle to the membership of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the annual State Support Report for 2006 was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96253	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96254	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam President with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the 2006 State Support Report. The report is more complete year-on-year and looks forward to the fact that the national support register is in the test and that the awareness of all support providers on the application of support is growing in order to really see the actual share of support in the gross social product and which is extremely important for the overall and overall development of the Republic of Croatia. The growth of state aid in 2006 is conditioned by increasing state aid in shipbuilding, transport, railways, agriculture, fisheries and regional aid and totalling 8 billion 587 million, which is 63% more than 2005. And almost 50% in percentage amount, meaning 3.43 gross social product, which is almost 50% more than in 2005. However, as mentioned by the President for methodology, this amount is such and since the State aid Act does not apply to the granting of support in agriculture and fisheries in 2006 is 2.5 billion and is higher for cca. 38% compared to 2004. And indeed, support in agriculture is growing. A State aid granted in the transport sector relates to compensation of costs in the provision of services of general economic interest and is not considered a state need. Therefore, if the support for shipbuilding was excluded, the state aid granted for recovery, the implementation of 1.4 billion guarantees, this is the new methodology in 2006, the share of the support in the gross social product would be 1.12 and would remain somewhere at the level of 2005 when it was 1.11%. The report is a very well-processed three-year period, with the possibility of data collection using the methodology used by the European Commission in preparing its reports and comparing support in the European Union countries. The most significant support in 2006 is the state guarantees 50.5%, and subsidies of 27.9% but should be taken into account for comparison of data for 2004/2005. State guarantees were not fully shown as State aid. Observed by categories, most of the support in 2004/2006. the year refers to sectoral support, in particular transport, agriculture, fisheries and shipbuilding. It is logical that the start of the process of restructuring the Croatian shipyard and the application of state aid regulations results in an increase in sectoral support. Horizontal state support for incentives, research and development, environmental protection, energy savings, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, training, employment, culture is by 16.6% compared to 2005 and this is a data that is in some way looking forward because horizontal state support really needs to be encouraged. It is most isolated in these employment support and then for the development of the small and medium-sized economy. While they're 200.4.2005. In 2006 the most frequent instrument of granting the needs of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs was subsidies, a significant increase in support in the form of favourable loans, which puts a real quality shift in the policy of granting support to small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a trend, a steady trend in the growth of regional state aid and is expected to grow more intensively, especially after the adoption of a new Investment Encouragement Act. Supports provided by counties, cities and municipalities do not reflect the true state of support at that level. However, unlike previous years, a shift is still visible and it is to believe that soon all units of local self-government will provide data to ensure that the reports are fully operational and the national support register. In conclusion, the data from the report show the growth of support both in absolute terms and relatively measured by the share of support in the gross social product. Supports are significantly higher in the agriculture and fisheries, transport and shipbuilding sector. A positive trend in the growth of horizontal needs continued in 2006 and this is important for all purposes of preserving the environment of employment, small and medium entrepreneurship. The report points to the fact that in 2006, the largest part of the support was granted by the programme, meaning state support providers reported it to the Agency and respected the rules when granting support according to the programme. Here's one more time, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96255	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Annual State aid report 2006. I welcome the conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid for 2006 is accepted. A year.". Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 129 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96258	Thank you. Dear Mr. President and Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of this House. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for the year 2006 at first sight is almost identical to the report on the work and business of the Institute for the previous year. However, the House also discussed and decided at the 22nd session of October 2006. But it's just like that at first sight. Namely this report, which is on your benches when it comes to the work and business of the Institute, contains an unequivocal quality shift in all business segments in providing services to the Office to insurance and users. I mean, practically from applying for insurance to a powerful solution to the exercise of rights. For example, as part of the "Hurry HR" project, an extremely important project "E Pensions" was implemented and the Institute introduced an E application, which has been complemented by the possibility of submitting applications by electronic means. In addition to this without further mentioning and listing the projects because the report detailed the adoption of a whole series of projects that significantly improve the quality of services provided by the Institute to users of services. All this has been done to realise the main objective of the Institute, which is why the institution as an institution is being restructured, which is that the exercise of the rights laid down by law be legally founded and achieved within the shortest period of time. Since when there is an institution as an institution, we believe that there has been no more intense and fruitful period of both regular and extraordinary jobs. It was not more intensive and fruitful, both regular and extraordinary. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, the regular extraordinary affairs of the Institute have been carried out in quality and within time. As regards the status of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity, it, the pension insurance system, forms a legal framework that regulates the way in which the risk is ensured and the risks of age, disability and death, as well as the institutional arrangements for the implementation of pension insurance. It is certain that the importance of the pension system is reflected in the economic, social and political life of the Republic of Croatia and to look at the number of insurance companies paying these contributions for pension insurance, in the number of pensioners and members of their families living on pensions, as well as at the level of pension insurance expenditure and their share in the gross domestic product. Some characteristic indicators of the situation in the pension system that we will talk about below, such as the share in any case of expenditure, better said costs for pension insurance in the gross domestic product. Then the ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners. Inflow of new pensioners and various pensions relative to pay. As regards the specific indicators and figures in the Institute, a million and 100 thousand and 86 pension users and a million and 538 thousand 170 insurance companies were recorded on 31 December 2006, which gives us a 1:1,40 ratio. We can conclude that after a long-term continuous deterioration, there is at least a minimal improvement in this ratio of significant to the state of sustainability of the pension insurance system, intergenerational solidarity. If we came back a few years ago, we can conclude that the lowest ratio was in 2001, 2002, and 2003, where we had 1:1,36 and this increased in 2004 to 1.37. Last year it was during the 2005 report period, respectively. 1st, 1.39 a.m., and in this year, as I've mentioned, it has risen and gives a ratio of 1:1,40. In 2006 as well as the total expenditure on pension insurance, they grew slower than the growth of gross domestic product in the Republic of Croatia and the share of insurance expenditure in GDP in 2006 was 11.54%, which means further decline compared to previous years. For example, several years back from 2003 when it was 12.44 in 2004. 12.22 to 2005 11.80. In this year, I repeat this amount for 11.54 years and this also points to a certain financial stabilisation of the pension system. The average pension for December 2006 was a thousand and 903 kuna and 99 June, which is slightly more than 3%, 3.22% more than in the previous year. And the average pension rate on average was 40.21%. The average pension that has been made for full-time work, considered 63% in the European Union of the pension level in the Republic of Croatia. And we can be satisfied with that because this is about the level of pension in some European Union members, for example, 67% in Belgium, Finland 62, Germany 63, Slovakia 63, and as regards the total income of pension insurance in 2006 it was 28,965 million, 28 billion 965 million kuna. And the total expenditure on pension insurance in that year amounted to 8 billion 918 kuna. Of course, funds for Croatian defenders and members of their family from the Homeland War are included here. Out of the total expenditure almost 98% refers to payments, payments to users. Other expenditure is the cost of professional service operations, financial expenditure and expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets and compulsory insurance of special categories of insurance undertakings. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also exercises the right to pay for children and in December 2006 there were 221 thousand 288 families of users of the surcharge for 416 thousand 177 children. The average amount of surcharge was 275 kuna and 45 lip per child, which is 1.5% more than in the previous year, and a total of one billion and 350 million were spent to finance children's allowances in 2006. When considering the state of the pension system, it is certainly not possible to circumvent these two laws which have been passed in this year, but which have contributed to its further stabilisation and which will, in particular, improve the material position of the pensioners. These are, of course, the Pension Insurance and Pensions Act adopted under the Pension Insurance Act and the Amendments and Supplements Act. The first law, meaning the Law on Supplement, since the first month of this month, will increase between 4 and 24.9% in 2007. In 2008 for a further 25.9% and in 2009 for 26.4% for both 2010 and the following years for 27%. It would only point out that this add-on will increase the significant levels of pension achieved under the general rules and mitigate, and in some cases eliminate the negative effects of the extension of the period for the calculation of pension. This will be of particular importance not only to pensioners who have retired in recent years but especially to those who will retire in the coming years. Just a few more words about the law, that is, changes and additions to the ZOMO. From 1 January 2008, there will be a further meaning of increasing the scope and level of rights that are achieved by applying the Pension Insurance Act and only for a short time, such as old-age pensions, early retirement pensions instead of the current 0.34 per month prior to retirement will be reduced by 0.15 per month, which means, in the case of the achievement of that pension 5 years ago, a total reduction of 9% rather than the previous 20.4%. The lowest pensions will be set for each year's completed retirement internship in an unreduced amount of 31 years, not as so far in a reduced amount. The disability pensions achieved on the basis of the professional incompetence for work to be paid during the employment of their users will be increased somewhere in the range, depending on which category, by 33 and 50% respectively. This legislative measure will also cover beneficiaries who have been first retired since 1.1.99 and will be recalculated on official duty since the start of the pension, starting next year. It should also be noted that, compared to the new and improved calculation of these pensions, it will be re-determined to the pension in these cases. As regards the work of the professional service of the Institute, the introduction would say that, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution with public powers in resolving pension insurance rights and obligations established by the Pension Insurance Act and the Pension Insurance Act is a mandatory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity, and that is, of course, the first pillar of the three-part pension system. I don't think there's any need to specify the other parts of the system, the 2nd and 3rd pillars. As regards compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation or intergenerational solidarity, the right to age, temporary age, disability, family pension, minimum basic, professional rehabilitation, compensation for physical damage, travel expenses in connection with the exercise of rights, all of which constitutes the primary activity of the institution. As part of the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity in 2006, nearly 600,000 requirements were resolved in the office, namely 591 thousand 421 pension insurance rights and child allowances, 521 000 014 requests were resolved, or 88.10%, which was an improvement compared to 2005 when 86.4% were resolved from the same number of applications. In this regard, it should be noted that the number of requests resolved within two months was increased by 3.01% of percentage points compared to the previous year, which means a continuation of a positive trend in several recent years, and it is also important to note that the number of outstanding requests was reduced at the beginning of the reporting period by slightly more than 10%, 10.36%, thus transferring 88 thousand and 638 outstanding cases from the previous year, and in 2006, there were fewer, 80 thousand 317 outstanding requests from 2005. A special shift in the resolution of the application was made in the implementation of international social insurance contracts and 45 thousand 244 requests were resolved or 67.05%, which is 7.03% or percentage points more than in 2005. In addition to regular operations, the Bureau carried out a large number of or a number of extraordinary tasks which were given in the relevantness on the basis of the law of the Republic of Croatia. The most important ones should first and foremost be highlighted here, and this is certainly the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98. And just a few basics. That the right to compensation had reached nearly 430, or 426,000, 309 users, and the calculated amount of compensation was the initial amount of 11.5 billion, 11:458 to which would be added interest compensation of 2.3 billion. The compensation was paid by two models, according to the known model (a) and model (b). According to the model a) payment during the first year, the first two years of the fund's duration was paid in the amount of compensation, of course I forgot the increase in interest was reduced by 50% and paid, or paid into 4 wars. So far, three payments of compensation per model totalling 3.6 billion, 600 billion kuna have been paid. The model b) is paid for 8 years of which the first two years are starting and the full amount of the corresponding compensation is paid for interest, divided into 6-year meals and the first war after this model will be paid in this year in December 2007. According to data, more than 70% of pensioners have decided to make a shorter payment version with a reduction in the amount of compensation. I would note further the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. This is known compensation for family and highest pensions. The right to compensation has achieved more than 35,000 and 456 pensioners amounting to $1.4 billion, to which a corresponding interest amount of 19.9752% should be added. The payment shall be made according to the same models as I stated, as users who have obtained the right to compensation under the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 1998. And the first war on this model was paid at the 6th month of this year at just over 125 million. I would also point out that the Institute has also done the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It was about paying the difference to the translated pension, that's what. The debt to Croatian defenders under the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from 2001 and 2002 and it was a total amount of 516 million kuna. According to these laws, more specifically according to the 2001 law, the debt for 2001 was paid in 2006 in the amount of 159 million kuna, the debt for 2003 and 2004 was paid in 2007 in the amount of 207 million kuna and according to the 2005 Law for the amount of 150 million kuna, i.e. in the course of the payment, better said payment at the end, this one was almost already completed before the regular payment of pensions in this month, for the past month of course. I would also point out that the Institute had another very important outstanding job, which is the payment of the Christmas pension to pensioners in 2006 and the sum of the Christmas card was from 100 to 350 kuna depending on the amount of income, and for the pensioners achieved according to the republics of the former SFRY paid in the Republic of Croatia a Christmas card of 200 kuna was paid regardless of the amount of pension they receive. For the payment of the goddess, the funds of 165 million are secured, paid out of the capital fund’s profits d.d. A total of 157 million kunas have been paid for Christmas Eve. Modernisation of the Institute as an important chapter in the work and business of the Institute in any case, if we are to say formally started in June 2005 when the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted a study on the basis of the re-design of the Institute, which started a comprehensive work on modernization of the Institute. The objective of the reconstruction was to transform the Institute into a modern one institution for the implementation of pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, to raise the level of quality of service provided by the Institute to its users, to reduce the duration of the right process as part of pension insurance and, of course, to reduce business costs. In order to restructure the Institute on the principles of process-oriented organisations in 2006, the following projects were launched: improvement of business processes, reorganisation of human policy, erp solutions, electronic system of document management and the construction of computer communication infrastructure, in addition to activities that took place within the project and, of course, with the World Bank's loan, the Institute used independently with available human potentials and material technical resources, continued to start the process of modernising and improving its business through the creation of human potential management projects, and a number of other activities of which the most significant implementation of measures to reduce the duration of the procedure, the resolution of pension insurance rights, then the modernisation of the business of archiving operations with continuous execution of registration material, for example was excluded from around 500 thousand pension files and microfilm close to 2 million documents. He would then mention the work on establishing a long-term documentation policy and the introduction of electronic business, a project known as e-Mirrovinski as part of the e-Croatian project. It's about, of course, e-application to insurance. Short on the Office's portfolio. Of course, the legal basis for managing and managing the portfolio of the Institute remains the same since 2000 and the status data are detailed in the report. As regards portfolios, part of the portfolio managed by the Croatian Pension Investment Company may point out that it is a company owned, 100 % owned by the company, 100 % owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and that the basic income is the compensation of the HMID of course for the management of the capital fund, which is 2% of the average annual net value of the fund's assets. In 2006, HMID made a net profit of 22 million, slightly more than 22 million kuna, and in 2006, the capital fund made a realised profit of 70 million 633 thousand and 737 kuna, and the unrealised profit from the start of the fund until 31 December 2006 was a billion 238 million and 135 thousand 751 kuna. In 2006, the largest increase in the value of the fund was achieved from its draft 51% due to the increased interest of foreign domestic investors in Croatian shares and the resulting rise in their prices. The value of the assets on 31 December 2006 was 1 billion and 320, I am talking 31 December 2005 billion and 328 million to make it a billion and 846 million kuna a year later, with that value reduced for the paid dividend from the profits achieved in previous years, we have already talked about it, of course it's Christmas. I would conclude that despite the fact that the Bureau has carried out a really huge number of regular, extraordinary jobs during the reporting period to point out that everything has been done in the best possible way that has been confirmed by the findings of the State Audit Office, which is unconditional for the second time in the history of the Institute. Regardless of this, we at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are aware of the importance of the role and tasks that the pension system has in Croatian society, of course its social and economic importance and all of its knowledge and skills and abilities we will target in the future towards the implementation of our tasks in a legal and professional manner, and taking into account the rational management of the funds according to the purpose for which the institution is established. All this makes me feel both the duty and the need to thank my associates from assistant directors to all employees in their dedicated, sacrificed and professional work that has contributed to these results from the Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96259	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Health Committee? Dear Representative Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96260	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected members of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 82nd session of the Committee held on 27 September discussed the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2006 which was submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 20 July this year. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The report submitted, which is in the opinion of the members of the Board, shall make up a complete picture of the operations of the Bureau for the reporting period. It is evident that the trend in the positive business of the institute continues. It is important to note that for the past two years, the findings of the state audit have been completely impeccable. It is evident that the trend of positive business is therefore continuing. The redesign and modernisation of institutions that are under way with information support and the introduction of digital documents contributes to raising the level and quality of services provided by the Institute to the users, which gradually becomes a public service of citizens. The process of achieving pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity continued with last year's trend in the increase in number of insurance companies, i.e. improved the relationship between the number of pensioners and the number of insurance undertakings in proportion to 1:1,40 indicating stability in the first degree of the pension system, the debate noted. During the discussion, the committee members supported the way in which the data and tables were displayed in this report, which are different from the previous approaches. The opinion is also expressed that pensions paid separately by the application of international social insurance contracts should be shown in the case of the relationship between the pension and the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. After a brief discussion, the board members decided to support and propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the following conclusion: A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2006 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96261	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96262	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mr. Director with associates, colleagues and colleagues! I won't be long, but I have to look back for everything that the Croatian party of pensioners has done about the activities of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Somehow I feel and the duty to look back at all their activities. So, I remember last year's debate that was very tumultuous in this House where some of our colleagues, or colleagues, were always saying that this report was the same as the one that was submitted, so that it was all copy, paste technology. I'm giving these reports a high level of attention and I look at some things and I have to tell you that these reports are all very different. Different problems are being solved year by year, different indicators are being addressed. New indicators are being introduced to make the system state picture better. In any case, I think that the progress in these reports has been seen year by year and the fact is that they respect the parliamentary remarks that have been made at such discussions in the Croatian Parliament. What is the characteristic of this year's report is that it speaks much more, namely, about much more activities of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 2006 compared to some other years. And according to your report, more or less activities on satisfaction and insurance or pension beneficiaries have been resolved. If I say something critical about this report, then know that it is because of the desire that this entity with public powers be as high as possible and as much as possible for the citizens of Croatia as possible. What I think on the side like this should be done urgently in this Croatian Pension Insurance Office, it is an exceptional financial effort in terms of financing a good, good information system. And I think that the Croatian government must provide funds for such a thing, because it is a complicated system that is required to be extremely quick in issuing a solution to citizens. And I think if I get the chance, if the government doesn't predict that I'm going to intervene with the amendments to do so. The second thing that I think should be done in this system is a kind of decentralisation of the system or we could better say a more precise allocation of part of the services from the very organisational skeleton of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. And I know that there have been speeches in some activities these days, and it's not exactly a happy circumstance for the law, that this Assembly is ending the session, because we might have been able to regulate something legally in that sense, but it remains a permanent obligation for us. What I would say is missing from this report, at least in terms of Croatia, we in the pensioner party are not fully satisfied with the assessment of the state of the system. In fact, there's nothing to object to this grade you're giving. However, we lack some other parameters, which is how much our pensions are really covered by contributions. Secondly, how much on the labour market we have to avoid paying contributions or how much we are caused by this state of non-covering of pension expenditures by contributions, by a low level of official salaries or by paying below the table. Furthermore, I miss the assessment of the improvement or proposals for improvement of the situation in the system, i.e. to assess the causes of whether the real reasons for the decline in average pension are compared to the average salary only in increasing the accounting period of new pensioners and increasing the number of pensioners, or whether it is a famous formula that generates itself the lagging of average pensions at an average salary level of around 1% per year. So that's what I'd like. However, I know the limitations of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but I find that we lack it. Next, one assessment of why we have a large number of disability pensions. It should certainly be noted in the assessment of the situation that the pension system is not one vertical pillar that stands for itself. It is also causally linked to the labour market, so also to the Employment and Other Systems Office. Namely, one fact I draw attention to. The peace system is also the basis for social benefits, certain social benefits at the level of municipalities and cities to pensioners etc. We have one flaw, which is that in our tax system, pensions from abroad are not treated by income. She can't treat you. But it can be treated with non-taxable income, but it must, or should, apply because other social rights are later applied to that level of pension, and then we have the wrong picture, the social picture of Croatia. What I think we should definitely change is that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has a double management. First, the training in the pension system must be separate from the political administration, hence those involved in the labour market, which are therefore trade unions, employers and state officials as a pension policy. The profession should always have its right veto or closing word it can or can't pass. Of course, what I would stand for regardless of the big and good changes in the last two, three years that I've been following is an even bigger public of work. Changes are noticeable, the Institute has indeed achieved quality shifts in and through the public of work, therefore through its publications, both through its websites and through its newsletters. Indeed, who is interested in this sector can be very well informed and very accessible. However, the public and the work are never enough because this is an area of interest for almost a million and a half Croatian citizens. What I'd like to say and point out is possible in some way not by your guilt that we understand deception is next. Figure 13 "The share of total pension expenditure in gross social product". I draw attention to the fact that we are quite inconsistencies in interpreting statistics because if you are watching we must first agree whether or not the compensation is pension expenditure, because in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2000 to 2004 compensation through the Institutes of 100 kuna and 6% and through the Institute 0.5 to 20% was pension expenditure. However, in 2006, it is not pension expenditure and is not involved in the gross social product. Now, we need to agree whether it was pension expenditure in 2001 and 2002 or whether it's also pension expenditure now because the form has changed but the essence hasn't changed. In 2004, we changed the form of that compensation that it has become an individual right that has become an inheritance right, but it falls under pension rights. And if he were to contribute to this in 2006, the expenditure related to the compensation of the share of pension expenditure in the gross social product would be significantly higher. I'm just pointing out that we have to understand these tables well, they're statistically correct, there's nothing to say but there can be one trap. Furthermore, something I would like to open today as a problem and use the opportunity since the end of the Assembly session is also one problem I have encountered in the last month and I want to share it with you. There is a certain problem in exercising the right to retire our citizens who have been employed as citizens in the former army, the former army. On all sides, we have information that their M4 patterns are really lost. I simply can't believe it because in this country and its legal predecessor there were some narrows that these M4 patterns had to be kept in several places. It is impossible for institutions in several places where these patterns are kept to be completely, that they disappear completely in all places at the same time. Because those people are suffering. Why are they suffering? They do not consider their pension to be the kind of internship that they have done in certain services, they are determined to retire at the lowest pension level, whether someone has worked as a cleaner in the former army or someone has worked as a senior nurse or a doctor. So we have specialists, doctors who today at 35 or 40 years of internship have a thousand and 600 kuna. These people are coming to me, and I have to open it up as a problem. And I'm asking you, Mr. Director, to move here. If necessary, we will raise to the level of government, but to make moves to determine by either art or some other methods the actual state of their contributions because I believe that this can be done through a coordinated action. Namely, there are also records of their work, of their sick leave, of their wages records. So from more records, these things would have to be very real, very realistically determined. That's the kind of guy who's got tens of them. I don't know if it is, whether it is the same practice or it is happening in other parts of Croatia but I know there are dozens of such cases in Pula, and I am obliged to open this issue in front of all of you. We can't say that something's gone, and that's why someone's got a whole life away from his pension because there's no pension, there's no fault of his. We are like a system to either keep those documents, to know how to calculate a pension or otherwise to get to, to the real data. Finally, I would like to say that our views regarding the management of assets in HMID and HMO are identical to the institutions, however, in that other free property that is at the management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office our views are significantly different. I think there is a Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as an institution with public authority and the insurance and pensioners' institutions is significantly damaged, long-term damaged, but it is a matter of a wider discussion and another political match. In the end, I want to say that I am happy to analyse these reports every time because they are my inspiration, but always in a positive way to improve the system. I am taking the opportunity to thank all these people who sit here for excellent cooperation during the term of office, with the fact that the Croatian Party of Pensioners will accept and support this report on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96263	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stephen Kozina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96264	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Let me get involved with this debate a little bit since I'm very interested in it. First of all, I would like to give recognition to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for the past two years and for this year, given the size of the jobs they have received. First of all, they got a pretty big job on compensation, and this new law on, for new pensioners, they're going to get an even bigger job first of all on this fee. Also, since 1.1, new solutions will need to be made under the new law that we have received. I have to say that a very large number of queries are coming to the Peace House. I speak from the point of view of the Varazdin field service and the exposition of those who have those where people can in real time get all the information they care about and I am the Mirovinski Fund for that. Second, as far as pensions are concerned. With this, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has no major influence. He's just showing what really happened. So here we see that in 2006, the average pension amounted to a thousand 903 kunas of 99 June, or that's 3.02% more than in the previous year. If we take what inflation was for that year then we don't see any pension increases. I think it should be better there somehow, that the Swiss formula should be interrupted once and that the calculation of pensions should be according to salary growth above all because pensions are paid. I don't think it's a good idea that this House has made a decision to accept the Swiss formula, not to calculate according to salary growth. Secondly, the share of pensions in the gross social product here was 11.54%. I think that's all pensions covered. And these under special conditions, according to special laws. That's all. If we only take these pensions without them, it's about 9% somewhere. And if we know that the European Union countries have that participation from 13% to 14%, and we are aiming towards the European Union and we would have to see how we get between 13% and 14%. We've had this on state aid before, and we can see it's big. That they're a lot of money. And if we had only half of these state aids directed into pension insurance our pensions would have increased significantly. On the other hand, here are the revenues from the contribution. Now, as far as that goes, I think the government is making a mess. First of all, the incomes are collected by the tax administration and they give these money to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's giro-account where we get our pensions from. If we are now looking that around 50% of the salaries are not paid according to the law, I think now they want to be paid, we have passed a new Accounting Act where it is visible that there should be more rigorous control than it has been so far and where the salary bill should be made according to all the rules that apply in the world, and should apply to us as well. And they used to be worth it. So no one could pay their salary until he made a contribution to retirement, to health insurance which is, which is, which is, which is, which is, that kind of thing. If we see that people today officially have, they're officially getting three thousand salaries, five thousand years under the table. I spoke to a man recently who told me he couldn't raise the loan because he's officially got three thousand salaries, and five thousand years under the table. Now imagine how much there is, tax cuts, tax cuts, pension contributions and health contributions. I think these revenues should be significantly higher and I think the state should find a way to make that happen. One way is also this proposal on minimum salaries that we have put into the parliamentary procedure, however, has not come to the agenda so that these contributions to that minimum wage should be made. Now, if we look at this minimum pension, I think that as a society, as a social society, we should take care that the minimum pension should not be less than the minimum of existence. And if, according to some calculations, that minimum existence is now somewhere around 1,000 kuna means that the lowest pension should amount to those 1,000 kunas so that man has a regular life. So that's where you should see it. It also decreases, according to these indicators, the withdrawal from the pension budget is reduced. I don't think that's right. It's not right because now, for generation solidarity, there are 5% missing from the new workers in the second pillar. Which is the amount, should be calculated. And normally so much funding should be given to the Peace Fund so that these pensions could be paid in the way that it suits it. Since it is also a transitional cost that this Parliament has also voted for in the adoption of a new law. So when it went to the 1st and 2nd pillar, so this 1st pillar of generation solidarity should go through this time, the budget should provide the funds so that these funds are approximately sufficient to pay off pensions according to legal provisions. Here's another thank you to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, for everything it provides to our users, and I must tell you that people are satisfied, at least that's how I investigate, at least in my field, with pension staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96265	Thank you. Finally, the motionary director, Mr. Mile Rukavin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just like to look back at a couple of allegations about the presentations of distinguished MPs, just a few information. It is, of course, nice for the representatives to make specific proposals and suggestions and we will consider it in any case regarding the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. As we have so far, and as Mr. Hrelja put it in front of the Croatian Retirement Party club. Of course, with special care, we will consider the problems that arise whether they are specific cases or whether they are certain phenomena in the system itself. The problem of the concept of payment of contributions is certainly not a matter that the Institute itself can resolve, but it was a question for a broader debate, but purely informatively, the growth of the funds from the contributions paid in 2006 compared to 2005 was 7.7%. Here's at least part of the question we can answer. And I'm sure I'd be happy to use this to answer for more investment in IT. It was about that kind of question and suggestion. I must point out that in the restructuring of the institute, special attention is paid to the development of information, because it is clear to us that without good information, without educated people in information, all these projects that I've been talking about, especially extraordinary, which are huge, can't be done and we are doing that, maybe it's not enough. However, when we translate that for the education of employees, that to invest in a technical basis, that for training outposts, connecting outposts to a line system was spent in the past and this year close to 18 million kunas, I think it still has a certain weight, but I say it's a large system that has more problems with people in information that you can't get because the Institute is uncompetitive in that sense with private companies and others if you want state institutions. It's more of a problem than the problem I made with the money to invest in information. Here I would no longer owe, all the comments and suggestions and suggestions we will look at and what is in the jurisdiction of the office to try to solve in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96267	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96268	Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2006. I give the vote the conclusion: "The proposed report is accepted.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 96 votes in favour and 33 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96269	We move to the following - Report on the work of the National Higher Education Council for 2006 – Proposer: National Council for Higher Education in accordance with Article 13. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of the National Higher Education Council provided that report. You received the materials by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Proposer's representative, Professor. Parach.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96270	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Annual Report of the National Higher Education Council for 2006. I just have a few words to say and I won't bother you too much. Last year's report, which I also defended at this meeting, a 2004 report, drew work in the strategic sense of the work of this National Council. In 2006, the paper, which was plotted last year, continued in the direction of evaluation and pass-offs for doctoral studies, so the emphasis in 2006 was on doctoral studies. In addition to all those activities that are legally part of the work of the National Council for Higher Education. I must also say that the work of the National Council, but also together with the Agency for Science and Higher Education, is increasingly compatible by making a clear contribution to the final result that the National Council is required to carry out under the law. The report therefore covers the ongoing work of the National Council, which only continued, I would say my comprehensive and very complex work that he had already had in 2005. I also have to say that in the parliamentary procedure specifically at the Chamber of Science, Culture and Higher Education, I have also heard some remarks that I would now just say a little bit and say what it is. What is my assessment of this report is of course that in one part I am also critical of this report, especially in that part regarding the obligation of the National Council for Higher Education to bring in a network of higher education which this House should adopt. I must say that the work on the network has been halted for certain reasons. However, it has been reactivated because it is a very delicate subject that will certainly be carefully prepared and presented to this body. So that's what this report isn't complete and what I'd be sure to be, in the next report will be contained. We also received comments that the future report as part of the report must also include the financial aspect of the National Council's war, and this will certainly be present in the next report. Mr. Vice President, that would be about all it takes. I will be available for any questions from the representatives of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96271	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96272	Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the National Council, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will not be particularly long, but we still felt at the Croatian People's Party club that this opportunity should be manifested. In the 1980s, it was clear that the competitiveness of the European economy, I think of the European Union countries, is a little short of breath in relation to the economy of the United States, Japan and some other countries, and alarm bells are involved, although nothing is happening in those years because Europe still believed that through the information of its economy it will gain a new advantage in the 1990s, but unfortunately this has not happened. However, it has been lost for many years and Europe is therefore opting for a whole new strategy, for the Lisbon strategy. The Lisbon strategy, therefore, is based on European advantages, and the basic advantage is the knowledge society. The Bologna process is essentially a framework for educational, scientific and technological use of the Lisbon strategy in achieving its objectives. This was all an introduction, given what I'm going to ask and ask for the opinion of our distinguished guests. In fact, it became clear to all of us 20 years ago that the market and the market economy alone will not be able to solve all the problems, that a strong coordination between the state and the economy is needed. The state needs to know which direction the economy is heading, the state needs to know what profiles it needs, what knowledge these experts must have and what number it must educate the people it profiles in. Therefore, registration policy and programme policy must be based on the real needs of the country's economy. That's why my question to our guests is next. Given that I see it in the report, and I fully agree with this report that the National Council has been somewhat surprised by the large number of proposals which continue to be accepted for the launch of new studies, a surprising number of proposals have also arrived for the establishment of new higher schools, etc., etc. And since we know that our National Council has an obligation to propose here a network of higher institutions, or universities to evaluate study programmes, to issue credentials, etc. I wonder if there has ever been a joint meeting of the National Council with the representatives of the Government, in particular the economy, health care, the judiciary to see in fact how long Croatia will need in 5, 10 and 15 years I don't know the professor, how long it will take a doctor, how long it will take a lawyer and with what knowledge. Furthermore, whether there were joint meetings with the Chamber of Commerce, with the HUP, were attempts to vertically connect the education system, so the high school programmes to be, clearly being a direct follow-up. That would interest us if we could work better tomorrow, better to conclude and help you in your work. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96273	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing up. Do you? Would you like some? Here you go. Prof. Frano Parach.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96274	Dear Mr. Representative, give me a quick answer. You yourself said the framework was established. The Bologne Process is a framework, one I would say a common denominator and process that will last, not only for us, but for all of Europe. As for your specific question, which means whether the National Council is in some way compatible with certain information that contributes to the final result, which means eventually setting priorities and encouraging me to say such content that will lead to economic prosperity, I would tell you that the National Council is constantly doing this, in various ways. The first and main thing is that, within the National Council for Higher Education under the law adopted by this Parliament, the people and representatives of the National Council are members of the Council who come from the economy and who are directly involved and I would say, in the work of the National Council, that is exactly how they participate in the work of the National Council. We are also working together in the work of the National Council with all the ministries that are responsible for their portfolios and I assure you that it is also such a practice and that it will continue to be. Of course, the transformation of everything and the events that the Bologna Process has inaugurated in our reality is so vast and so I would say comprehensive that we can't be satisfied with the degree of all those factors that would have to contribute that maybe faster and better we go to a better one I would say to the higher education system, but this is a process in which we should be patient and in any case your exposure, Mr. Representative, I will pass it on to the members of the National Council and the Agency, and we will certainly take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96275	Thank you. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96276	Report on the work of the National Higher Education Council for 2006. I give the vote the conclusion: "The proposed report is accepted.". Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 128 for and 1 against accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96277	and we move to - - A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2006 – Proposer of the Supervisory Committee of the FINA Report is based on Article 31. The Personal Data Protection Act was submitted by the Personal Data Protection Agency. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Director of the Agency, Mr. Francis Lacko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I appreciate it means that despite your fatigue, here's the strength to stay here for a little while. I'll be seeing that you only have one brief review. So this agency, which is the basis and the European Union directive, meant to provide for all future members, means legislation in this area, so the law was passed in 2003 and, according to the European experts, it is a good law. Normally, he will later likely experience some minor changes and additions. But for now, I'm saying it's a good law that incorporates the principles of the directive and international conventions that apply me here as well. You raised your hand here last year and ratified this convention as well. So what do you think you're looking at? So all of ours, this screening, the experts said that Croatia is on a good path when it comes to the protection of personal data, that means that it is doing well. However, we do not hide certain weaknesses and problems that we will solve in the next period. So the first is that we're going to have to go more significantly to meet the citizens about their rights. At the same time, we will have to warn the law enforcement officers further about the violation but also about the delivery of these records to the central register, which is normally run by the Personal Data Protection Agency. Since I will be here as well and normally I am here to answer every question of yours, I will only say that, over the years, it means that, therefore, the arrival of experts from the European Union has sometimes been attended by individual representatives, the presidents of individual committees involved in this work. I thank them. So it means I'd answer your questions if there were. In conclusion, I would say that our work is also recognized in a way by the European Union, that before signing it means aid in the amount of cca. 2 million euros. These are mainly all the European Union funds that will allow the agency to really stand by Europe's most developed democratic countries within a few years. Here, I'm here, I thank you again. And here I am to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96279	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one answered for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96280	A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2006. I give the vote the conclusion: "The proposed report is accepted.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 96 for, 31 against, 2 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion with that majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96281	We move to - Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2006 – Proposer of the Supervisory Board of the FINE According to Article 21 of the Law, the Financial Agency and the Supervisory Board submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96282	Annual report on the financial agency's 2006 business. I give the vote the conclusion: "The mentioned report on the financial agency's business for 2006 is accepted. A year.". I'm voting that conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 95 for, 33 against and 1 abstention of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96283	The 10th - Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the rapporteur want a committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. We'll start at 11 tomorrow, and then we'll skip the 11th and 12th points. We're going to point 13. - Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Europe for Citizens", emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 792 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary of the Central Administration, Mr. Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96285	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Just a few words to explain this law and, in fact, to point out that in Croatia civil society is in constant rise and great development, that there are more than 30,000 different NGOs in Croatia, that in the past term we have made great efforts to facilitate the work of civil society and, among other things, the signing of this agreement, and even today, the proposal of the Ratification Act opens up a space for Croatian associations to participate in projects financed from the European Community. And it seems to us that it is another wind in the back in the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, so I ask MPs and MPs to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96286	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Has anyone called for a hearing? No one answered for the hearing. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96287	The final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Citizens' Programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 127 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96288	14th Point - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme "Intelligent Energy – the European Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation" (2007-2013).) emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 794 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me just say a few words about the law in question. This is about the "Intelligent Energy for Competitiveness and Innovation" programme and are part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme and is designed to support activities and actions in the field of energy and in particular in the area of energy efficiency from renewable energy sources. The programme is a follow-up of the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme from the 2003-2006 cycle, in which the Republic of Croatia participated in the last 2006 cycle of implementation. The purpose of the programme is to support the European Union's energy policies in the area of energy based on the "green Paper" on energy security and supply, the "white books" on transport and other relevant provisions of the legal property of the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on 28 February 2007 on the priority programmes of the European Community and on 13 September 2007 and the Decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Intelligent Energy – European Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation" programme. Following the decision of 3 October 2007 in Brussels, a memorandum of understanding was signed and the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding was a necessary prerequisite for opening the possibility for applicants of project proposals from the Republic of Croatia to participate in the programme in question through competitions to report projects called by the European Commission. One of the conditions is the payment of financial contributions that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to pay to the general budget of the European Union of 364 thousand euro of membership, which will be secured by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. The aim of the law is to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding which will provide a legal basis for meeting the above conditions and for the participation of users of the programme from the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that the preliminary results of the evaluation of projects under the competition cycle for the "Intelligent Energy in Europe" programme for 2006 show that 47 projects of the proposal have been reported from various users, of which twenty were approved, representing a 43% success rate. These twenty projects will be co-financed as a beneficiary of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of a million and 159 thousand euros, amounting to 290% of the financial contribution or membership fee paid by the Republic of Croatia in the general budget. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, as a rule, this stage of the procedure cannot make amendments and additions to the text of the international contract, it is proposed that the draft law in question be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96290	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96291	Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Programme "Intelligent Energy – the European Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation". I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Same unanimous with 127 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96292	We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. - Final draft law confirming the 1992 International Sugar Agreement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 793 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Mr. Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96293	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You are presented with a proposal for a law confirming the 1992 International Sugar Agreement. Let me just say a few introductory words. The 1992 International Sugar Agreement was adopted at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held on 20.3.1992 and entered into force on 10.12.1996. So far, fifty-eight states have become party to the agreement in question. The International Organisation for Sugar is an international organisation based in London that manages the 1992 International Sugar Agreement. The aim of this organization is to improve international cooperation in the area of production... sugar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, seventy-eight members including the European Union and its twenty-seven Member States were established in 1968. It works through the International Sugar Council. The Council shall meet as a rule twice a year to analyse the state of the world sugar market. The Council shall act on one representative of each Member State involved in observing changes at global level and on the reform of the European Union's sugar market. The accession of the International Organisation for Sugar would allow the Republic of Croatia to participate in the decision-making process on the future of the sugar industry. The production of sugar in the Republic of Croatia has a strategic significance in agricultural exports, and it is 15% and is our most important product in our accession to the European Union, and it seems useful to join this agreement. By joining the International Organisation for Sugar, Croatia undertakes to pay membership fees and to supply monthly and annual statistics, production, consumption and trade in sugar in Croatia. On the other hand, it is possible to obtain information on world production, prices, imports, exports, consumption and sugar supplies as well as on sugar taxes and other sweeteners. Each member of the agreement shall have a number of votes. Croatia will receive seven votes, with an annual contribution of £3000 492 and £41 thousand 916. I propose to the Croatian Parliament that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96294	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96295	Final draft law confirming the '92 International Sugar Agreement A year. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 128 votes for unanimously passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96296	We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. - Final draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the control of the state border, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 797 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, when setting the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96297	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the control of the state border. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Who's in? Thank you. Restraint? Against? Against first? Restraint? Unanimity with 128 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96298	We're going to the 17th agenda. - Final draft law on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 795 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. On behalf of the Government, a representative of the Proposer Professor Dr. Slobodan Downloader is the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96299	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me remind you that the funding for improving the student standard was foreseen by the state budget in the last year amounted to 45 million kuna, which is certainly insufficient given the expressed and constantly increasing real needs in all segments of the student standard, especially if we have in mind the achievement of the Bologna reform we have talked a lot about in the last few days and in this House of Commons. I also remind you that apart from the need for a student standard in a narrow sense of nutrition, accommodation and the like to organise cultural, sports and other programmes, student centres, student associations are in charge of giving them funds within the scope of available opportunities. I also remind you that the needs related to the transport of students and the subsidisation of these needs are done by the Ministry in cooperation with cities, municipalities, universities and other higher universities, as much as possible to improve the student standard in which students are in different positions depending on whether they are studying in the city of Zagreb where, for example, transport costs are fully covered by the decision of the city of Zagreb. In some universities, it has been well solved, and some have not been resolved at all. At the ministry's positions, funds are not provided, for example, for rewarding and scholarshiping students, which would certainly be a preferred mechanism for stimulating successful ones to be even more successful, and they are less successful of course to be more successful. The adoption of this Act will regulate the provision of support and raising the level of student and student standards, in particular through the payment of state grants, awards to talented students and students, and the provision of support to specific programmes that contribute to raising the level of living and cultural standards of students and students. In addition to all of the above, the possibility of additional support to students and students for the purposes of transport, accommodation, nutrition and other segments of standards is left. We ask for a decision to consider the law as an emergency procedure. The reason for that is very simple. It is our desire that what we would do in the coming calendar years begin to live so that as early as 1.1.2008 we could go with the competition. As far as the law itself is concerned by its proposed provisions, I hope that it is easy to show that it is a law which clearly prescribes basic elements of what such law must have. The founder of the foundation is therefore the Republic of Croatia. The Foundation's headquarters is in Zagreb, I'm just saying the basics. The bodies of the Foundation shall be the donor assembly and the board of directors, that is, until the appointment of the Management Board. That the donor assembly is made up of donors who will pay at least 20% of the value of the foundation's assets. That the donor assembly is chaired by the minister in charge of education affairs. Otherwise, when the foundation is established, the Management Board of 7 members will manage. We see that members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I recall here in Article 7: "After one member of the Management Board of the Government, the Government appoints a proposal from the competent minister." There is the Education and Education Agency. A particularly important Agency for Professional Education and, of course, the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The members of the Foundation's Committee shall choose between the President of the Management Board and the two Deputys. I remind you that the term of office of the board of directors is four years with the right to re-election. The foundation's basic property is the amount that has been secured from now on from a million and 5 hundred thousand kuna. Otherwise, the foundation is financed from income from fixed assets, gifts and this Act of Prescribed Other Revenue. The income from the underlying assets shall be interest and other contributions from the financial assets as well as from the rent and the like. Donations are money, goods, services and rights the foundation receives for its purpose. Other revenues include obtaining income from accompanying activities such as charity, making and selling presses, emblems, badges and the like. The financial year to say so also begins on January 1st and ends on December 31st of the year. Here in the end, in the end for, as a first step to make the Foundation work as soon as possible, the Director of the Foundation is appointed until the appointment of the Management Board. The Director shall convene a constitutive session of the donor assembly within one month of the date of payment of the amount referred to in this Proposal of the Law. There's so much to start with. For all possible questions, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96300	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? ... I'm opening a debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one checked in. I'm closing the debate and closing the session. And tomorrow at 10 o'clock, so at 10 o'clock, we'll start at 11 and 12, and then next thing you know, maybe we'll skip 18 because it won't be like it for the afternoon, but it goes 19th, 20th and so on. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-10-0.u96301	Final draft law on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 129 votes for the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm opening a session. The draft Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading, should now be discussed on the agenda. The bill is proposed by the clubs of HSLS and HSS representatives. There's a government meeting at 12 o'clock. The government has not given its opinion on this bill. It was also predicted that the government's session would be held the day before, so yesterday by creating formal procedural assumptions that the government would give its opinion, so it was yesterday. But for various reasons, the government's session was moved to today at 12 o'clock. Please ask the promoters to accept this explanation. Then, after a cabinet meeting where the government would give its opinion in the afternoon, that law would then be discussed. Here you are, Vice-President of the House, the respected representative Đurđa Adlešić.
