ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83297	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives and MPs. You have before you this Regulation amending the State Measurement Act and the Realty Cataster. The subject-matter regulation extended the deadline for persons who, in accordance with the Law on Cataster, were unable to carry out tasks in the transitional period, in the state measure of the property catastra "National paper", 128/99, because they did not meet these conditions. These are medium-sized persons, however, it should be pointed out that on 26 January this year, this House adopted a new Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estates, which resolved the issue of those persons, and the same Law put this regulation out of force. Here,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83298	Thank you. Who's next? State Secretary Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83299	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act amends 2 existing articles of the Road Safety Act and establishes a new article. These changes and additions relate primarily to Centre safe rides. Namely, for the application of the start of training in the Centres of Safe Driving, the deadline was extended on 1 January 2009 because no training centres have yet been developed in Croatia. The application of the powers of local self-government units to regulate standstill on 1 January 2008 is also prolonged because the majority of local self-government units are also not ready to implement these measures prescribed by the Road Safety Act. And the newspaper is Article 241a, which introduces so-called "Zol" tiles, since in Croatia we have several companies dealing with the production of the most frequently exported vehicle. Economic vehicles exported and having problems exporting those vehicles to other countries. As a result, these test plates have been introduced allowing for the smooth export of these commercial vehicles from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these 3 amendments and additions to this Regulation on amendments to the Road Safety Act have been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83300	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Law on Health Protection and the Law on Pharmacy provided for the transfer of the founding rights of health institutions from local self-government to local self-government, and the same Law did not provide for the transfer of founding rights of pharmaceutical activities. Last year, however, there was a transfer of founding rights which has led to a dispute over the 12th month to begin the practice in other parts. Since the bill, as the legislators adopted by this House, did not provide for this, we felt that a further such direction should be stopped, and the government adopted a regulation transposing the founding rights of pharmacies to which the founder of the county is authorised, but other legal and natural persons are not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83302	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83303	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on the powers conferred on it by the Government's Act on the powers to regulate certain issues raised by the Croatian Parliament in the period when the Croatian Parliament has not adopted in its regular session a regulation supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials intended to extend the application of the provisions of the Law which determines the addition to the tasks of the Deputy President of the Court or of another judicial officer and the postponement of the application of a special salary allowance, i.e. the increase of the salary for a judge in courts where neither after the recommence can be completed. Since these jobs are now being filled in neatly and there is a great interest in working in the judiciary, this does not need to be applied now in 2007. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain the State Officials Act supplementing the law. According to the Law on State Servants, the State Service ceases with 65 years of life, but there are circumstances when projects carried out by individual civil servants need to be completed. We therefore propose that the state service may be extended to such civil servants as an exception for up to 2 years, if there are reasonable reasons for this, but the condition is also the consent of a civil servant. So, not through his will. We think that we can also extend the working age to individual employees, which will certainly have a positive impact on both the pension system and the completion of the projects that have been launched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83304	Thank you. The committees? Are there any interested? There's no word from the oral report committee. Then State Secretary Zdravko Livakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83305	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs good morning. Here's the government passed a regulation on the granting of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in the areas of special state care to Croatian defenders and members of their family imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In this regard, to extend the period of validity of this Regulation, to ensure continuity until the law on the donation of dwellings and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of special state care does not fully address this problem. The biggest problem in implementing the regulation is the abandonment of land books, i.e. they do not exist in certain areas, so that the speed to solve property-legislative problems is one that determines the speed of resolution of these requirements which otherwise has 7 000 and 54.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83306	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83307	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first grade in all regulations. With this understanding, the government's understanding of the powers given to it by the legislative body, i.e. The Croatian Parliament, the government definitely assumes the role of the Croatian Parliament and this crawling strategy, a little by little. How does it work? The best evidence is this last regulation, which was referred to by the gentleman for the provision of apartments and houses of ownership of the Republic of Croatia. This is the third time that the deadline of one regulation is extended, and we return to the meaning of the Constitution. Therefore, the Government of the Republic may, on the basis of the powers of this Parliament, adopt the regulations of this Parliament within a very limited period of time. So, just as long as that authority lasts, and the authority can never be given under the Constitution for more than a year. Therefore, all regulations of the Government ex-legislator, i.e. under the Constitution, cease after the maximum period of one year, and generally never operate for a year because they are adopted within that period, and this Regulation was adopted on 21 December, it is obvious that the Government's intention to wait with them when the Assembly does not sit in order to regulate the area within the scope of parliamentary representatives of the citizens' representatives. Of course, I can estimate that all the representatives of the citizens in this House would regulate matters in favour of the defenders that this regulation regulates, but very limited, very inaccurate, without criteria. Therefore, the government is left with an arbitration regulation to address very important issues about how it will give the defenders houses owned. When it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, we have already discussed and passed a new Law on Measurement and Cataster of Realty, and we have not, of course, put this regulation out of force. Everyone who deals with law knows the rule of lex posteriors, but what kind of legal certainty the government promotes by these regulations is only citizens who are trying to correctly apply the law. It's just confusing the citizens. And one more thing. the government extends the time limit for the application of the law beyond its authority. She has the authority for a year, and she says the application of the law will be delayed by the end of 2009. So, past the Constitution, beyond the authority, the rules are passed, with the intention of doing so when the formal constitutional deadline and the Constitution allows it in a period when the Parliament does not sit. It is evidence that the parliament was in session until 15 December, and that the government adopted such important regulations on 21 December that they were important in determining the position of one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For proof of what I claim is a regulation in amendments to the Road Safety Act. Just to remind the public. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal" with the exception of the provisions of Articles 5 and 9 of this Act, and Article 5 and 3 and 9 of this Act shall not resolve any regulation, but shall say that those provisions of the law will apply from 1 January 2008, and the Government's authorisation to resolve matters under the Parliament's section only until the end of the 10th month of this year. Therefore, it is undeniable for the Government to enter into breach of the Constitution, and even if we are looking at the essence of the amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act, I have looked at the Law, let the Government read what export tiles would mean. Where is the definition of the export plate defined? In the Road Traffic Act, that's what I'm curious about. So the regulation confuses users of rights, addressees even more. We have the same case on judges' salaries. The parliament, meanwhile, resolved the issue, and the government adopted the regulation on 21 December 2006, although it already knew that the procedure contained the law. When it comes to the idea of even a proposal for a regulation supplementing the Law on Pharmacy, I am sure they know in the Government that they can pass a regulation on a problem in the field of pharmacy that can be dealt with by a regulation in a special way, but change the law and thus remain with the Government for that authorisation. The more the government asks whether by regulation, the regulation limits property. No matter whose property it is, whether the county, municipality or natural persons of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I will repeat once again that the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia is a regulation that has extended such a state for 3 years. Indeed, colleagues and colleagues, it is not the purpose of a constitutional provision that the Parliament gives authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, in a period when the Parliament does not meet, resolves issues in the area of the Parliament in a very specific way. Of course, the questions that the Constitution has the right to address should be given to the Parliament to confirm that regulation and not to amend the law from year to year on the matters to be decided by the Parliament. Therefore, the SDP club will not vote to accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83308	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83309	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Leko said I quote: "The government takes over the role of the Croatian Parliament." And, in doing so, he explained that the government does so when it is not necessary, on purpose, when the Parliament does not meet. That is not true, of course, because the percentage of the regulations in the overall percentage of the government's decision is negligible and is not higher than the percentage of the regulations last or any of the previous governments. Therefore, the indictment that the government is taking over the role of the Croatian Parliament does not stand and is indeed politicised.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83310	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83311	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Government representatives! Well, the position of the Croatian party club was clear during the former government as well as during this government. According to us, the authority referred to in Article 87 is the authority. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that the Government may mean exceptional, sometimes edit questions from the Croatian Parliament's part-round really exceptional, and we always said that this could only be applied in situations where regular elections or extraordinary elections were called and when so-called elections were called. The technical government has to work things out during this period because life is like that. But it means, not those things that would get in the way of what the Constitution forbids. But it is a nonsensical fact that in Croatia it is the authority to regulate matters from the Croatian Parliament's section slowly become a rule by regulations with the legal power. And the worst is right when the exception becomes a rule and it is already visible that every time between a session or between a break it is regular whether it is summer or winter, always as soon as the Parliament is done with work, it reaches for regulation with legal force. Otherwise, this government is often called upon to apply standards and standards from the European Union, how modern democratic processes should be opened, how this should be done, how it should be done. Otherwise in these European countries, this is really an exception. Many do not even have in their constitutional terms this way of regulation that the government is taking over means a detour of Parliament. And it is true that this way of work speaks about Croatia, regardless of its parliamentary structure, entering the office system and, this is not, these are not good solutions, because of the fact that the government is actually doing it on purpose. The government is doing this on purpose because of the fact that it avoids sending such proposals to a regular procedure, because then it would have to say that it is not doing its job the way it should, because the same government is proposing these same laws and these laws have not come into force honestly and they are changing them. What's he saying? That it does not rule the situation, that it does not know the situation in its area, that it avoids public confrontation in the Croatian Parliament, that the situation is not what it shows. And that's why this is for individual ministries and for the government is a very simple solution, because it's easier to deal with regulations with legal force, so there's going to be a whole series of state secretaries. This will take maybe an hour or two and they have solved that part of the problem and the public will forget that, for example, there is a law on traffic safety on the roads, which President Shakespeare is keeping neatly on the agenda but has no intention of putting amendments to the law. So, as soon as the law came into force, the amendments had already come in. Unfortunately, he can't put it on because then this debate would open. So it is agreed that, in this way, the Croatian Parliament will play the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and then the government will come in with a regulation with legal force. It is particularly interesting, and this situation, we have supported the first regulation with the legal power to donate apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia for defenders, because we have said turn it into a law. Turn into a law. It's not land books, it's not property relations, but no, it's every time my colleague Leko says, this is already the 23rd amendment of that regulation, so why don't you turn it into a law? You won't fix it in this period either. You won't fix it because we know what the land-book situation is like. You'll come again. Therefore, you do what needs to be done and what you should do and what you are paid for and not using these means and things like this. Keep going. I'm asking the Secretary of State about the supplementation of the Pharmacy Act. What you will do in a situation, before the City of Zagreb made this situation that it had put into holding pharmacy. He put it in a holding pharmacy. You have no feedback, and what have you done now? You've created two legal systems. You said according to this, you can't do it in the future. You have no retroactive activity. What is your goal, then, of a regulation like this? I mean, it just proves that you have no purpose. Here, something's done, now we're gonna stop there. And what next? So we have two legal regimes. Well, I mean, don't act so unseriously towards the legal system of Croatia, according to the obligations and rights of Croatian citizens and everything else, because such a vicious approach only leads to even greater legal uncertainty of Croatian citizens. Leads to different, be careful in the same legal or similar situations there are different legal solutions. So, in the City of Zagreb, pharmacies can be in holding, but let's say now in the county, let's say Vukovar-Srijemska won't be able to be. So then the state has to lay down predetermined rules, but if it fails to do so in due time, then you have to go to level legal practice for the same legal rules to see if it might go retroactively into some kind of solution because it is impossible in one legal state to exist for one, the same or similar legal situation two or three legal regimes. This does not already guarantee the functioning of the rule of law. That, in turn, is causing all the other doubts that will arise. We cannot have different legal regimes in the legal system for the same or similar situations and therefore cannot accept on behalf of the HSP Club this irresponsible behaviour of the Government and the play of the Croatian Parliament and the reach for resolving matters by regulations with legal power and thus as far-fetched as the case with pharmacies or other matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83312	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83313	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not exactly what my colleague Pero says we've introduced an office system. He knows that very well. And the State Secretary's explanations were quite logical. However, what I wanted was to commend the HSP government for not applying the regulation so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83314	The HNS Club is a respected representative...... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what's the injured Rules of Procedure in? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83315	No, it's not. Mr. President. In 209, 209 he corrected his opinion. I said we're in the parliamentary system towards the Constitution, but this is the way it gets us into the "de facto" office system, you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83316	I understand. Just understand, and you, that MP Markovanovic was correcting your allegations. And the quote is, the quote is an opinion. The above is a public opinion. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83317	Take care of yourselves like a dragon. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83318	HNS Club. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83319	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian People's Party Club will not support this Opinion of Conclusions from For three essential reasons and one operational reason. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The essential reasons are that such an act is counter-constitutional. Which is undemocratic and what is manipulative. The government, the government does not respect the Croatian Constitution. He doesn't respect it in the letter... Mr. President, will you stop them? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83320	How do you stop? How do you stop them when?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83321	Okay. The government does not respect the letter of the Constitution because the letter of the Constitution says that regulations with legal force are passed on for a period of no more than a year. Okay, the number of regulations proposed here for adoption to this House have a duration of more than a year. The government has no right to propose, let alone make such a decision. The government is changing the laws by regulations. The government can't change the laws. The laws can be changed by Parliament. And the government is passing the Law Change Regulation. If it's not a violation of the Constitution and a violation of parliamentary democracy, I don't know what it is. The proposal for these conclusions is not democratic for the simple reason that the government takes over through all these procedures, so the executive government assumes the function and powers of the legislative authority. That's how good the authorities get together, it comes to the unity of the government. The unity in power we already tried once, we said it was wrong. That power should be divided into three branches. Now we've divided into three branches, but these two are going to be together, so it's going to work better. The proposal for these conclusions on the adoption of the regulations is manipulative. The government deliberately adopts Regulations 21, so 4, 5, 6 days after the end of the session of the Assembly and 15 days after, 20 days before the next session, with a reason to spend what is difficult or can be carried out here, has a majority but would raise too much dust. It'd make too much noise. There'd be strange arguments. The government can't mess with that and then spend it like this. That's one reason. The second reason is that the government is working on making this House ridiculous and unnecessary. And it proves and shows that this House is ridiculous and unnecessary. The government obviously has the power to do that. One part of the House accepts it, I don't know why. Why do people work against their own interests? It's against the interest of their own integrity, but obviously they're working. Regulations, regulations are confusing. A good part of these regulations actually extends the non-compliance of certain parts of the law. So not applying certain parts of the law. The laws have been passed in this House. There was a debate against them. There was a debate for them. There were amendments. There were indications that some of the provisions were inconclusive. The government, of course, insisted naturally and firmly on its views. The law was passed and the provision of the Law was extended from, first of all, to the non-application of the law to 1.1.2006 and now to 1.7.2007. And no one, no one said who was actually to blame for not implementing this law? There, a representative years ago said that there was only God above this congregation. I'm afraid there's someone else across the street over this Parliament. Through this square. So we've passed regulations that don't apply. Which, I admit, I can't have. But they were proposed by the government. All right, this is all about laws, laws that are in force and not applicable, which are proposed by the Government. So we've passed laws that are laws for a bright future, programming laws, laws that talk about how we'll feel when we're okay. How we'll be when we're much better, smarter and richer. And we've tried that once before to do programming laws. Laws that paint us a bright future and light at the end of the tunnel. We should once start passing laws for living people. For the people who live here today to know when the law is passed in this House that it can be applied tomorrow. At the same time, the government has an obligation to bring a bunch, really a bunch, 350 and some sublegal acts based on the laws that were passed last year. These sublegal acts are not adopted. The regulation will again be made not to apply some of the laws because no sublegal acts have been adopted. Let's say the Security Verification Regulation was not passed under the new law. That's why the government didn't have time. And the government didn't deal with it, but the rule of law, the '90 security law, applies. and some years. But for this, the government of course has time. All in all this mode of operation, this way of manipulating Parliament for the Croatian People's Party, I believe and for a good part the public is completely unacceptable. If we have decided on parliamentary democracy, then key decisions on the functioning of the state should be made in Parliament, and should be implemented by the Government, not that key provisions on the functioning of the law are made by the government, and Parliament only acts dolls at the end, raises its hands up, down, and accepts what the Government proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83322	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honored House Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Whenever it's exaggerated, it's an argument that's worse and weaker. And the example of exaggeration is this debate by Mr Vuljanić, who is here, and finally when he left the pay phone, he said that only the MPs here raise and lower their hands. Well, the vote is done by either raising your hands or not. It's nothing new. This was the case in the previous assembly of parliaments when regulations were also passed and the HDZ opposed the adoption of some of the regulations that the government had adopted at the time. Those who remember, and I would especially point out that there, we listened on the Constitutional Committee and on the Assembly theory very interesting whose author was Mr. Stazic, and supported by Mr. Leko. In this theory, Stazic claimed there was no need to oppose the then government has a majority. And Mr. Leco said the same thing on the Constitutional Committee and here at the Parliament, and it's only formal that he's going to bring some regulation to the government because she has a majority in the Parliament, so it's going to be confirmed later, and that's why we're complaining. This has convinced us all the time that there has been a debate on the regulation. Does this mean that the government in the last term that had most of it could work like that, it's legal and fine, but this government couldn't do it, even though it has a majority? It was a theory I call this may be, I call it the Colloquial Theory of Stazic-Leko in the previous assembly of Parliaments. Now obviously something has changed because most of us have changed, so now that is why we are, we are referring to the Constitution, principles, etc. And we've forgotten that for four years in the last meeting of the Parliament. Now this eternal struggle between the executive and the legislative authority. She's not just with us, she's everywhere. Because the executive power wants to be imposed and to be in charge of the legislative authority, and the legislative authority doesn't give it. So we have, now we're looking at the American Congress fighting executive and legislative power because legislative authority, it's a different system, but it's a different system, it's true, but the fight, I think I'm talking about the principle of not detail, right? the fight between the executive and the legislative authority. Now, what elements do we have to oppose this attempt to impose an executive power? I don't know what it is, is it a sign of something or something. Actually, what you're throwing at me suits us. Otherwise I wouldn't throw it away if you didn't throw it to me, you understand. Your colleague throws it at me. So let's calm down. There's a way to oppose the executive government. So let's say that if she passed her legal powers, the government, so she passed a regulation that was valid until 1.10, and she, by the end of the year, meant that 3 months would be more valid than the government's authority to make such regulations. Now it's not just the government that proposes laws to the Parliament. As we'll see, we'll watch tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, there's this initiative and constituency clubs and law-making individuals. So if there is such a danger of jeopardising Parliament's right to make laws and key decisions, then there is also the possibility that the bill limits such a wrong move by the government. So by the 10th month you can propose a law that will limit the importance of an extension and a decision that does not comply with the law. So there are mechanisms. They're in our hands. We can use them, not go away from it all contrary to the Constitution, endangering the Constitution and so on. So let's let the government make a mistake. The government is not infallible. Just like we didn't. So, Mr. Vuljanic, you've gone too far, at least. So you're saying the government has adopted a regulation on 21 December. He concluded his session of the 15th Parliament. Many decisions and many subjects of debate or the need to extend or limit are mostly about 1.1 next year. I'm not saying that he's here in these specific cases, but that's it and that's the time maybe when Parliament doesn't sit down and when Parliament's in that winter, is it, a vacation that lasts for over a month because there's not exactly a Parliament on January 15th when it's supposed to start a session but it's 25th, let's say. As it was this year, it was 24. So there is in this House a way and a mechanism to limit itself, to quotes, the will of the government. If she exists. But to claim that, that the constitutional adoption of those regulations is, then. We are neither judges of the Constitutional Court nor competent to determine what it is or how it is without discussion and without analysis and without professional people who know more about it than we do individuals and so on. So, and the past government made in these not only periods when the Parliament did not meet but many decisions were made between the two sessions of the Parliament. I will do this a little bit, if there is a further debate on this, and I will look into how many of these regulations have been passed, at which time they have been passed, and I could argue with the debates of this, interesting theories of Stazic-Leko, and then let us also see that, once as a special point of the agenda, we can discuss this potential conflict or the non-compliance between the work or action or the conduct of the executive in relation to the legislative authority and vice versa. So, if there is an excess, if there is something that is not in accordance with the law, there are mechanisms for this Parliament and each individual representative to put an end to it by proposing appropriate laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83324	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative, Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83325	Dear Representative, counterpart Bebic, on behalf of HDZ has replaced the thesis and claims on what I have never claimed. In fact, I did not even refer to the government of the Republic of Croatia's principal powers in performing in front of the SDP club to regulate the area of the Croatian Parliament by regulations. I didn't do it in the last term or in this one. Well, in that sense, my colleague Baby's theory is to replace thesis. In no word did Bebić refer to the regulations that are on the agenda, and I repeat that my purpose was that in Article 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, the Government violated the Constitution, and said that "this Regulation enters into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal" of this provision of Articles 5(3) and 9 of this Law, which does not even discuss this Regulation, "which enters into force on 1 January 2008. It has already exceeded the authorisation and "the provisions of Article 221(5). A law that enters into force on 1 January 2009." That's what we're talking about, colleague Babybic. So, the government is past the Constitution, past the power and beyond the law. That's what my colleague, Baby, is about, not the government's principal authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83326	Thank you very much. A second correction, a respected representative, thank you, the other Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83327	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting my colleague Bebić's allegations that MP Vuljanic has exaggerated. So, fellow MP Vuljanic did not go too far in his debate and his claims because he did not state the 2 attitudes of the club we agreed on. First, he did not count all 240 sublegal rules that the government had to adopt in this term, and he did not and did not put forward a proposal for tomorrow to be the final day of the Parliament's election, to allow the government to regulate the legal system of Croatia in these 10 months alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83328	Now, this has already been one serious defense, the defence of MP Vuljanic from MPs, counsellor Lesar. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83329	I thank Mr. President, so I am correcting the quote of my colleague, Bebić, who spoke about the theory of Leko-Stazic. Such theories, counterpart Bebic, have never been but despite the fact that such a theory has never been that it does not mean that the government has not sinned. The government was wrong, and that's why she lost the election. Since this government has not learned lessons but is making even more boastful mistakes, counterpart Bebic, you too will be played by citizens in the next election by leaving the march.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83330	I would only beg, I think colleague Lalic has the same problem with his throat as many other representatives. One candy for my friend Lalic's throat. Is that a nigger's throat or a nigger's candy or what's that? ... How? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Septolete. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go. Give me that candy, don't just make promises, give me candy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83331	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ministry representatives. What does the HSS actually mean to adopt a regulation, or regulation? If someone hadn't done their job in time, or maybe he didn't want to do it and he got paid for it. By the way, if there's any intention of bypassing the parliament, we're given enough dates. The assembly was held on 15th, the regulations were passed 21st, and it really shouldn't be more serious and commentary at all. However, what is important is that in our approach to the European Union, we have done only 30% of the required legislation in the Assembly of Legislative Activities. Will we and the harmonisation of European legislation be implemented in such a way as to pass laws that are unusually necessary to comply with Croatian legislation with European Union legislation? However, here is Mr. President and colleagues and colleagues, why did the Government not adopt a regulation on the 0.0 promo we are protesting here in the Parliament? For 4 years, we have 4 drafts of the law that we want to abolish the provision, an unfair provision of 0.5 prominence, but the government is not responding. The government doesn't react by law, the government doesn't react by regulation. Why does the government not adopt a regulation that pensions should be in Croatia 50% of the average salary as set out in HDZ's pre-election promise. Well, we'd probably all clap one of those, but of course she won't be. We don't even discuss laws that would harmonize in a quality way pensions not to be 39%, to be 50%, let alone for new pensioners who have an even 20% less salary. Here's a regulation we could bring every day a lot better and better than the ones we have here. Let's remind ourselves, we just passed the restriction regulation, though, in '92. It's not us, it's someone else's pension mass restriction, we know the result. Now we're correcting those mistakes. Once the president of the state had the opportunity to pass regulations, this time it only has the government, but obviously it's too much. What is always raised as a logical question would the Parliament bring such regulations in such a context and in this sense that we have some discussion. I believe that in no case would he do so because these regulations are hasty, they are written and made ad hoc, the parliament is sensitive, the parliament is more responsible and I am absolutely sure that it would discuss and make better decisions. So look at this measurement regulation and the real estate cataster. We're talking about geodetics that are individuals, who have been doing this job for ten years and who are actually the most professional people in the garter and in the catastro. We constantly extend their deadlines in which they can do the job, and we give priority to some large societies, some who get special licences, or who enter their associations to get a monopoly. We need a profession to solve bad garters and bad conditions in the catastrus, and in order to have a profession, we have to tell these people who have no conditions to do it until retirement, whether they'll work for the next 10 years or every year or every 6 months we'll be able to tell them if you'll still be able to work. We also changed the Road Safety Act by introducing new fines and what is most tragic to delay the application of safe driving for young drivers. Statistics tell us in the last year compared to 23% of young drivers had more car accidents, but we're extending the provisions of laws that should take effect, and instead of training young drivers, to train them how to safely drive we buy car interceptors and, of course, put them on highways, or where they can collect money easily and easily for drivers. And of course by this regulation we also restrict local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, we take away their responsibility for moving and improperly stopped parked vehicles, traffic management on roads, detection of cyclists and pedestrians, etc. We act in a slow motion, we intervene in this Law through regulation, and far more important provisions are in this Law that we must amend. It's a very simple thing to do. Someone didn't do their job, someone didn't propose laws in Parliament in time. And finally I will say, of course, the HSS club cannot support this and we fear that if we continue to do so, we will pass laws that are important for the accession and harmonisation of legislation with the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83332	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83333	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Well, I'd say all governments are the same. They all have their own doctrine. The past government says Mr. Bebic in the act was the doctrine of Stazic-Leko, and now looks like Palaric-Bebic. But now the question is, when will these doctrines turn into something that will not be a avoidance of the Croatian Parliament? When will the MPs, as well as the people in the government, actually fight for the dignity of this House? It is clear that people in the government will not do so, but we do not know Cain, Leko, Stazic, Baby, etc. Surely they should and these regulations should be a minimum number, although it will never be that the regulation of such a species will not be and that is simply true. But there should be a measure in all of this. These regulations, as they are and are not controversial. Perhaps even the most controversial regulation in the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia is in the areas of special state care for Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I assume these are houses owned by the Republic of Croatia, not citizens of the Republic of Croatia of Serbian nationality. I suppose it's also true that today in 2007, what was possible is not possible is, say, '95. Or '96. Article 1 reads: "The apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia that are located in the area of special state care are donated to the property of Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who used and resided in those apartments and houses on 1 August 2005." It is not disputed that a defender like, and especially not this dead, members of the families of the dead come to the apartments, i.e. The house. However, this is about donations. Against it, let's call it a tenant's right no one should mind, but I repeat again here it's a gift. Someone will say so they donated their lives to Croatia, so the state can give them an apartment or a house. Let's say we can observe it that way, but I want to say, secure an apartment, a house through the shape of that "right" of the apartment it certainly is, but to donate an apartment I think it's one big concession, so it was also a space of special state care that few people actually want to do today. Article 4 of this Regulation literally states: "A contract on the donation of an apartment or a house will be concluded between the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport, Development and the grant of the recipient, with the obligation of the contract to contain a chapter on the ban on alienation or the real legal availability of the donated property within 10 years of the date of the conclusion of the grant agreement." So, the house must not be sold for 10 years, and after that, I dare say, a large number of people will do so if Article 1 does not include a regulation that it is not only a defender but also a family of defenders. Because it could happen that a woman has an apartment in Pula, that they live in Pula, and that way another family member gets a house I don't know, like in Udbina. I said, I know more people who in Pula have what we call a pink building apartment, which lives or doesn't live in it, and somewhere else they have another state apartment and no less than they get another house like this somewhere on the premises of a special state care. It's a detour, I dare say common sense, and that's kind of the creation of a privileged class. Many mention I don't know, NOB fighters. And they were getting apartments. Some like I don't know, they'd move into nationalized villas, but no state gave anyone anything, but they'd pay off in other, say, appropriate ways. To the invalids all, they should be given an apartment. Why? Because life support contracts can either take that apartment or the house anyway, to someone who takes care of them. Of course there should be a measure here and these apartments, the house assigned 100%, 90%, 80% to disabled people, not to those 20% or 30% to disabled people. Finally, why some who are 40% or 60% disabled must, say, buy apartments now and now we see that some simply donate whole houses. I think there should be a serious debate about this. First of all, let's see what happens to disposing of such apartments. So, for example, defenders in Pula living in inappropriate conditions in Valovinas should be placed in the dwellings of those who abuse them in that same city. To believe that today someone from Pula, Split, Poreč, Opatija, I do not know the way of Gline or Udbin is unlikely, but that will go in a way that will try to get to the house not that it is not possible, but unfortunately it is a common practice and it really needs to be talked about. I think this problem should be approached honestly, not to cause new injustices. And so many IDS clubs support all those who advocate that this matter is regulated by one whole law and not by the government year by year, which is third time prolonging regulations or better said avoiding activity, avoids this home. I repeat again. To the disabled all, the dead families too, but the others still have to understand that the response to the mobilization call was primarily a matter of showing loyalty to this country. Equally, no one can say that this country doesn't care about the defenders. It's clear, too. Every real one costs. Someone also needs to work so that all categories living from the state can be calmed down. Croatia has 1 million and 500 thousand workers, minus 200 thousand people on the budget salary. So, a million and 300 thousand workers, say, sustains a million and 080 thousand pensioners, 300 thousand unemployed, a complete social, 200 thousand people on the government's salary, from representatives, members of the government. There are doctors, teachers, police, armies without which no state can function. So that should also be discussed, but in Croatia there is talk of everything but how to make money so that the next day all of that money can live. By the way, I'm glad Mr. Pacek mentioned some retirement moments. I welcome, say, yesterday's decision on family pensions. 43,000 people will be able to comply with other pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. But that's what a billion and 400 million kunas need to be provided for. Clearly, when we talk about people with disabilities, all people with disabilities should be equalized, from the Homeland War, clearly and from II. World War I. I mean, here I even welcome this road safety regulation. But like Mr. Pecek and I, I will ask myself, when we will finally return that provision of 0.5 prominence. I'm not saying that hats on the head appear in this House because they took off both the Supreme and the Marshal in it. But the need to draw attention to absurd measures, and perhaps even provocations, because this measure of 0.5 of banning bans is actually 0.0 harmful, absurd and has no effect because in 2006 there were more fatalities on our roads than in 2005. And therefore, you should abolish that provision at least with a regulation like this at the 7th month when "the leave of this House" takes place in order to bypass the debate, but regardless of just abolish this regulation. The measure of civil servants seems logical to me. More and more people are leaving the state administration, the best people are leaving. We have situations, I'm talking first of all about Istria, that simply in the state administration, no one wants to work anymore. Poreč was left without people issuing building permits. They flee either to local self-government or to other private institutions. Finally, these regulations are not even as problematic as the regulations we have discussed so far. But the point is what all MPs say. For these regulations to be bypassed by this House and some regulations, for example, this House and House Regulation, owned by the Republic of Croatia, can ultimately cause insurance obligations and dozens of millions of kunas. Doctors in my opinion, the regulation is not disputed. For this regulation on pharmacies I am 100% for but as Mr. Leko said, does it not matter now to any of the County Assembly whether it is Istrian, Primorje-Gorski, Dubrovnik or Slavonsko-Baranja can limit real property? But look at the absurd now. One Zagreb can freely communicate with these pharmacies that are in the same status as the other Croatian counties. And these others are obviously here in a more significantly unequal position. When I talk about the need to provide certain money for the implementation of these regulations that is not spoken here, then we hear more and more simply how further privatisation will be done. So we limit small drugstores from being able to find themselves on the market. Okay, I'm 100% into it, but on the other hand we're not only able to sell to the INA, the Croatian Telecom, but now "Croatia Insurance" but we've now started to discuss even the privatisation of one HEP, Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Croatian Motorways, Croatian Forests and so on in a way that the state should maintain 25% of the ownership of these companies plus a clear one share. And as far as the Cataster Regulation is concerned, I mean, the regulation itself as a regulation may not be controversial again, but the law we passed last Friday or before today where 50% of the geodettes are put in a worse position than the one they were in front of, by adopting a team of laws. For the reason that engineers and a whole series of businesses that have acted until then are not authorized to do so after the law has entered into force, they will no longer be able to do so. Once again, this package may be the least controversial of all government regulations so far. Everything before was far more than anything else clearly needs to be measured, and we need to look the truth into our eyes and admit that no government has ever been able to do so without regulations, and God will not be able to give me any future ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83334	At 10.42, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations of exposure. It is a respected representative, Josip Djakic, at the presentation of Agent Kajin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83335	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Namely, I will correct Mr Cain's incorrect claim that the house, house and other facilities in areas of special state care have opened up the possibility of double acquisition of the rights of users or that their spouses have possibly houses in other, in other areas. It is absolutely incorrect because it is arranged, it is arranged that the State Attorney's Office is verifying all those who have submitted the request, and until the State's Attorney's Office has brought an actual state of affairs that they do not own any house or weekend or any other, that the beneficiaries are not refurbished then they can only conclude a contract and be given to them in the assignment of the facility in which they lived. Namely, to clarify the position of what you were saying was abolished are Croatian defenders who are disabled, who must pay off part of the loan. Namely, these people who lived in these houses and apartments have invested considerable material resources that are all the time for their maintenance of these facilities and this decision, this government regulation was made on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the military-raid operation "Storm" as a gift to Croatian defenders who are in areas of special state concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83336	And another correction, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83337	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Cain said that the Road Safety Act, that is, its paragraph of 0.5 promila, had no effect because it had increased the number of people killed since '75. In '76. which is a fact. However, it is either ignorant or malicious interpretation of statistics. Because in 2004, 150 people died less. And this year, so from 2005 to 2006 it's only 17 more. So 120 people still died less than in 2004. And by 2004, we have a constant trend in the rise of the dead and we remember the headlines when there were 15 to 20, 14 to 15 killed on our roads every weekend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83338	And the esteemed representative Ivan Bagrić, correcting the incorrect allegations. Ivan Bagaric. The crown is you, Krono Peronja, you're after You're later. [[Sit down, Peronja.]] First is Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83339	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my colleague Mlinarić corrected the incorrect allegations, I think it is one of the allegations that is repeatedly incorrectly cited and because of the public that it is now and always and again to be corrected. So it is pointless to argue that the legal provision of 0.00 has changed alcohol since it has no effect whatsoever. It is especially pointless if this is repeated in the Croatian Parliament because it can be completely misunderstood by the public. So it could be the public that doesn't respect that provision. And on the other hand, she's completely scientifically unfounded and she's not telling the public the more we're going to have a breakthrough in the blood, we're going to be safer in traffic. So let's stay away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83340	And the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83341	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. An incorrect colleague said that the best personnel are leaving the state administration. It is just the confirmation here that the state secretaries are present and that they are top-notch and that even more and stronger should be advocated for a modern, even better-paid state administration in the modern Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83342	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83343	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a colleague of the Parliament, Mr Shex, our colleague once during the adoption of this amendment to the agenda, demonstrated in fact what parliamentary democracy means, which means parliamentary democracy, and when it really respects those eras of customs in every democratic and normal parliament. But I would go back to one definition of truth by Socrates. When Socrates asked what was true he replied he says about the same always the same. Now, if we were to ask ourselves this question, do we have the courage to say how we behave when we're in position or when we're in the position of the opposition? Then it is very often shown that these principles are quite fluid, climate-y and that what is very disturbing to us, which is very disturbing to us when we are in the position of the opposition to very harsh and uncritically defend apologeticly when we get into a situation to be a position. A very small number of parliamentarians here are actually trying to say exactly the same thing, and whether it is in this or that position shows that some values, some principles should be defended. We will all, especially now that this stormy time of pre-election campaign comes we will address the citizens and then we will tell them that we will defend our dignity, the dignity of Parliament, that we will vote on our own conscience, that above their interests, civil interests have no other interests. But I say when we get into that situation of those party disciplines of coalition obligations, then very often it happens that we give up that story. And then we just have this situation that we have. Out there in '92, '93. In the year that one rather uncertain, neurotic time is, this Assembly has begun to get used to the fact that, due to these exceptional circumstances, legislative regulations are being passed. Already and then there were many MPs or one good number who had already said that it was a very dangerous practice that would eventually actually show us eventually if someone else defined what it was exceptional that we would really find ourselves in a situation that we had to accept this constitutional provision that the government also had the right to regulate certain things by regulations. Unfortunately, that warning did not come across approval. Here was a President of Parliament who really said on a very benign note that he had someone who thought for us, that is what he did, even though he was the President of Parliament dared to say. But I'm saying, let's make some argument, the alibi was just for that wartime and afterlife. But obviously, this practice of these times is actually continuing today and it's something that's not good. And with that kind of practice, it should definitely stop. Because now that we're doing this analysis, I'm not going to be as detailed as my colleague Kai's of these legal regulations, then we should really be asking which one of these legal regulations has exactly that something of its own exceptional that can't be passed in some other way. That's why if we get, and what's actually the most tragic, '99. year one of the changes in the very important political historical changes in Croatia when those who received power in '90. the years have been changed in a peaceful way and when the then coalition was in fact very much in favour of everyone, that, and the change in the Constitution was just going to go in that presidential or semi-presidential system is changing towards parliamentary democracy. And it was also one of the most important political topics that were exploited in '99. A year. Then it happens that we actually accepted it, in principle, declaratively, brought in, even made two amendments to the Constitution. But it was also not foreign to us to regulate certain things by legal regulations. But I wouldn't accept this practice if bad practice were justified by even worse practice. It is, it is always really dangerous and then again in some new composition of Parliament we will have a situation that someone else will say, and that's what you did. So if you were doing it, then we could do it by that analogy, and we could do it freely, and this new parliamentary majority. Analyticals are not usually a good way to make sense when it comes to conclusions. It usually ends wrong. But if these neurotic times and a little bit schizoid, that's what I said last time, so some of them gave me a comment, they're really still in action. Here, it even comes from those parties that are very strongly advocated for parliamentary democracy. Today completely, without any particular arguments or personal theoretical arguments, elaborates, offer in these elections and candidates for prime minister. Although we all know that these are parliamentary elections, you will in all things, it is interesting, it is even the public immediately accepted and in all polls you have polls on how the parties stand and how the candidates for the prime minister stand. Although everyone in Croatia knows that the prime minister is not elected. But that's not the problem right now. But that's the problem with that, on one like this, one like this, one... the way actually undermines parliamentary democracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't mind that it happens in Croatia. It's like introducing an office system or something. But then it requires that if anything else and because of some civil elemental correctness and decency, it is also an attempt to actually conduct a truly serious debate whether it is necessary for Croatia and is it normal? Here, people, the candidates say that really this Parliament is nothing. Then unfortunately, by our own actions, by accepting certain of these to say practices that are not good, which is actually the product of those exceptional times. I'll agree it's '90s, '95. It was an extraordinary time. But after '95. There were no more reasons for these exceptional circumstances. But unfortunately, you know when when, lightly, I'm actually not going to say it lightly, but relatively easy to make decisions, it's very difficult for someone to take away the right they once acquired. No one's just gonna stop by themselves and say, "I'm not gonna act like that anymore." And then Matthew acted like it, so did Rachan, so did Sanader. And it's precisely because it's sometimes thought that there's a speed that's actually a virtue. Speed doesn't have to be a virtue every time. And that certain simplicity and ease of making decisions that in some ways escipated the Parliament is not good. That's exactly where we regardless of the party colors should still about the same always the same, no matter where we are. But unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, I've been here since '92. For years, you're very difficult right now, everyone will tell you privately, in the cafe to say you're right, but then you have party discipline, coalition discipline, etc. I know I've been very uncomfortable inside the coalition, precisely because I haven't been able to convince myself that I've been doing something that's really beyond my civil, political and even theoretical consciences. I also find it very difficult to accept this practice, the practice that candidates and prime ministers who are not even elected, which is in fact a direct violation of that constitutional value. And we here very often retreat to the Constitution and threaten the Constitution and quote it and read it but let's just say that we do it perfectly normally and act as if it were actually, and we do it, that it's actually worth someone else's. So I say, you should always talk, every time in principle. I am in favour of defending this dignity, for parliamentary democracy, that here through this Parliament must indeed face not the argument of force, or most, but the force of arguments. And I'm afraid that then indeed and certainly, that this is happening, that then the solutions that would come from these discussions would be much better than when they're solutions that come from one party or from a particular coalition combination, because it's not every time bad or stupid that I don't know, suggest opposition or that certain things are crystallised during the debate. That's why I'm saying, this is, in this way to connect now into an individual what Hegel's team would say up by the facts, it really doesn't make sense to me that something is or isn't, but really whether we can fight it. There's a critical mass here that's ready to fight, really that parliamentary democracy and this very height of this for us as people who really don't have to go out, and even some times to their friends and voters and sympathisers, you know I wouldn't, you know, that's politics. And then these are some other elements that actually condition our decisions. This is how we're really going to have the idea that bad practice is justified even worse or that we're going to go then who started first and it won't be far from it. So I'm saying, we're taking this into knowledge, and maybe as a matter of fact, as exactly a reason to actually have this debate, one thematic debate about the role of this House in world history. Thank you. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83344	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate, Honorable Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83345	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So far, the debate has shown that no one is contesting the government's ability and the right to regulate certain areas of regulations with legal force. However, the date is interesting. It all happens on December 21st, not a week after the session of the Croatian Parliament officially concluded. And when we look at the essentials of the regulation, then it turns out that we have a great deal of trouble for at least individuals in the government, individual ministers and their teams because it's most often about not being passed certain sublegal regulations. We're only going about the Law on Change and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. If we look at the explanation, someone here really thinks that we don't remember long enough or we don't know what's going on in that vault. The law was passed in mid-2004. Two and a half years later, certain provisions of the law are amended for a significant long period of time and the blame is exclusively on the minister and the government who have not passed the regulations under the law. If we look at Article 3, I'm not going to go into constitutionality right now, but we're going essentially and we're going to look at the explanation that we're endowed with. When it comes to the possibility that units of local and regional self-government in their space mean taking over certain tasks related to the supervision and relocation of improperly stopped and parked vehicles, traffic management on roads, detecting pedestrian offences or cyclists, we simply do this. And why are we doing this? And why we're doing it is not said in the explanation of this inter-resor group that was founded. You can't take over local and regional self-government because the minister didn't do respected ladies and gentlemen, his part of the job he needed. For example, before the end of last year, the town of Varazdin made a request to the MUP to allow it to know under what conditions it could take over certain legal tasks on January 1st of this year. The Croatian Police Director, Mr. Benko, then responds that according to their thinking and opinion, the city of Varazdin is able to take control of the traffic in peace at that time. So parking is illegal and everything. And the rest why can't he? For reasons of banality, for example, the minister with his experts, and then it's really coming to me to laugh that the presence of the secretary of state here is evidence of a good state administration, so that's just ridiculous. I guess that'll tell us better and show us what the citizens think, but the minister didn't pass the car transfer rule. Why? In two and a half years, he was unable to pass a certain rule. The minister also has the right and the possibility to prescribe uniforms for those persons who will work on moving vehicles and who will do jobs. Mr. Secretary of State, why hasn't such a decision been made? Is that work, or maybe it's not like that. I think it's an inadequacy or incompetence of someone else's. Therefore, a ball is now being thrown into the area of local and regional self-government, and if certain cities, counties or municipalities are unable to take on something, then it will be all the same. But why are those cities in Croatia being able to take action in their own hands? Obviously, there is no political will and there is not enough creativity and work in this government to get certain sublaws passed and then done the way they should. No matter how angry we are, don't be angry, statistics are very clear colleagues and colleagues. It is said that compared to 2005 there is an increase in the number of traffic accidents and deaths in traffic on Croatian roads. However, despite warnings and when the Road Safety Act was passed, it refers to safe driving schools, the government did nothing in two and a half years, but nothing to make safe driving schools. They're gone. And now we find it very interesting here in reason, it is now very interesting, says that in the countries of the European Union, a safe driving programme is required only in the Republic of Austria. So why did we go to a higher level if we knew we weren't able to do something within certain deadlines? It's obviously an unhappiness and a riot in the MUP. Because if that wasn't the case then it would have been done or at least we'd have started with the first school of safe driving. By the way, Mr. Minister had time to sign a contract that many claim is illegal, to make new stations for a technical examination, even though the standard says that 10,000 vehicles are subject to one stop for a technical inspection of the vehicle. By the way, be interesting, no contests, no nothing, with one state-owned insurance house. As far as these laws are concerned, that is to say, a regulation supplementing the Law on civil servants. I have to admit when you read the explanation then it's a bit of science fiction. It is said that on the end of the last day of 2006, a significant number of civil servants in the aforementioned jobs by force of the law ceases their working relationship. This now puts me in a position to think about a few things. In addition to this number of unemployed in Croatia, it turns out that no one is taking care of planning, so in mid-year it was not known that a significant number of civil servants should retire? I think so. If it's about significant projects, I'd like you to list to us what significant projects these civil servants are working on. They're probably working on some teams, teams, and if someone has to retire, I guess someone on the team is capable enough, and now you've praised some of the colleagues here that we have a capable state administration that can continue the project so it doesn't get cut off. But I'm asking myself and you. And what about the admissions of trainees to the state service who will gradually replace those who are obviously irreparable at this time and whose departure would have disturbed something. It would be more normal for me to say in this legal section, too, that civil servants are being detained for completing jobs or other legitimate reasons, but no longer than two years. I accept, but what are the projects that last for two years? That is why you could at least explain yourself to us some of the examples. This is how it turns out that we have more equal than the others who are going to be able to stay on relatively well-paid and secure state affairs for a while. Is that exactly what these projects are about, not a word, not a letter? And one thing that I also resent, and other colleagues have already spoken of, is the Act on the Completion of the Law on Pharmacy. It is undeniable that this regulation now places certain units of regional self-government, more specifically the county, in an unequal position. The city of Zagreb has done something, the fact is that it seems to me there on December 15th last year and the Varazdin County adopted its county budget in which it was announced and as one item of the budget is that for 20 million kuna, the founding rights of the pharmacy will obviously be transferred to someone, sold and everything else. And I can accept and accept that that's when you go with the regulation. But where were you when the City of Zagreb? As I recall, the City of Zagreb did it somewhere in the middle of the year. So there was plenty of time to come to this high house with the law, so that others wouldn't even think of it. Now I'm asking if the Ministry of Health will also compensate the county for the cost of changing the budget? And that's worth it, gentlemen. The whole process is costing some devil. But we're going to vote these regulations here, the government has brought it, how much it costs, what the consequences, it doesn't matter. It is obvious that there is neither planning nor monitoring in this government what units of local and regional self-government are doing and the fires are being put out as anyone recalls. And as for the employment of certain laws, I would ask, and here I would ask Secretary of State Palarić, if we might get one of the next sessions when regulations with legal force are under consideration and how we stand in the area of the adoption of sublaws, because unfortunately most of the ministries of sublegal regulation do not adopt in terms prescribed by the laws, and then often because there are no planning, because there is no supervision, they adopt these regulations. Because no one in this Transport Safety Act disputes that, for example, this law, these table-related amendments, that it should be a regulation, but this whole thing just doesn't make sense because it could have reacted in time and significantly earlier with the amendment of the law, especially since we have four proposals to amend the Road Safety Act, some of which have been waiting for more than a year, are constantly on the agenda, but cannot be discussed and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83346	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83347	Thank you very much. So I agree with most of what Mr Korenika said in particular in this part, arguing the shortcomings related to the Road Safety Act, that is, this part of this regulation that makes amendments to the law. However, it seems to me that by listing a series of elements of that law, he did not actually say the core of the problem, and the core of the problem is the following. And that's that last year we had an increase in road deaths, so last year over 600 people died on the roads, actually 613. That we have an increase in young people who died on the roads over 20%. And since this Law has proved to be a series of illogicalities and in fact does not contribute to road safety I expected, Mr. Korenika, after the Prime Minister's statement when he said if this Law and this provision of 0.5 permeates save at least one life that we have done a lot and that this Law will remain in force. Since the Prime Minister's expectations, therefore, did not prove accurate, so that this law does not save lives but rather, that more deaths are clearly due to change this whole law. The fact that 25% of young people died more on Croatian roads, and at the same time we did not do the key thing in this Law, which was regulated by the centres of safe driving, actually speaks enough about the seriousness that the government is accessing this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83348	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83349	Thank you very much. Well obviously that my colleague Lucin and I are in the same way or almost similar...... A fellow potter! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. If you already... It would be the vice president's turn to let us talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83351	The fact is that, in the same or similar way, we think about solving the problem, but if 0.5 is the elimination of those 0.5 alcohols and it's obvious that one part of people is thought or thought that's the only way to solve the problem is simply not true. And you can see the inconclusiveness of the government. I'd still understand if maybe a year later, the establishment of a safe-driving centre was delayed. However, this is being extended in almost two years. Why? If young and new drivers are a problem, let's take a little more education, let's make an extra effort. However, the government neither comes with any changes to the law nor with additional analyses to show us what's wrong. And quite certainly, or at least my opinion, that the government will make this change 0.5 times, when that changes then we know that the election will be very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83352	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83353	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Discuss the report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority in order to count the amount, the number of regulations adopted by this or that Government, and then take even here a theory which has also been given its name "Stazic-Leka's theory", that each government does so and justifies that political set-up when in power I think it's a little bit unserious. Because first of all, the government has the right to adopt regulations, but the question is when it does so, what it does it for, and what the real content of those regulations is. That's the key question. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to point out one more time, taking arguments from the ruling that this is how the government behaves, so I'm going to take it, the former government, the power that lost the election, it's a good flating of the path to the same results that I want from my heart. Also, criticizing another person's behavior as a person and accepting his methods is something that has become ensnared in our politics. So we don't admit the authors, but you like their methods, and because of that, we know how to criticize the users of these methods. But regulations such as the name speak, language interpretation of that concept should be regulated. However, when we look at a little bit of the content of these regulations, we see that they upset existing laws. That they don't give the laws that we've brought to live, with compassion. So here are two levels of problems. The first is why the government did it, whether it was urgent or simply lurking in the situation when there was no Parliament to do it. And who do not solve one current situation until the Assembly meets but one permanent period which, I say, cancels the positive efforts of good law in the good part. However, on this point, the content of certain regulations itself. So what does the content of these regulations indicate, and why has the Government decided to adopt these regulations, and what have they shown? They show that the reform procedures have stopped in Croatia, that there is no "start Croatia" because you see, about the launch of Croatia and not even in this period when this should be done, because our state administration, in the context of certain regulations, says, "it is not prepared, it is necessary to extend the deadline, it is necessary to postpone", etc., etc. Is she the government of the Fast Government? But it's all delayed. So the key things are being delayed, but they're also showing something. They show that there is no money, that there is no means for individual needs of reforms, that is, which at least certain laws have indicated that they can happen. Here's what happens if we look at this regulation on amending the State Measurement Act and the Realty Cataster, and how does it explain itself? So, the government can boast about the successes of continuing that reform of land books that was launched in 2002, but when it brings this, when the reasons why this regulation was adopted are then said to be an unsettled state of the land books. So, it's quite perverse than he normally knows how to say. Here, a representative of the Government argues that there is a major disturbance in land books and that this is why the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate, which speaks out of the words about the qualifications of the necessary experts, especially the surveyor, i.e. the geometry. So now this deadline continues to be extended because of such a situation and enables those who do not have the proper preparation under the law and who should have done so until a certain period of time, and solve problems and comply with the law. So, the whole situation is being extended. When we see what the regulation on the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is about, then, it is clear that such an argument that the Government states is not possible at this time to carry out such a job, therefore, of moving a vehicle into the bodies of the units of local self-government. It's simply not true, but it's an entry business, therefore, and it's being hacked into the authority of the local self-government units that they belong to and which they can do very, very, very much. But the government on the one hand is saying we're developing decentralisation, we're developing our local self-government, not giving it these jobs. What is signifiable is the law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. It was precisely commendable to amend the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers that judges who work hard and have the right to pay 50% both judges and their deputies on the trail of judicial reform. So where there is no full staff, where no personnel appears, where they are referred to another more burdened court or another judicial body as judges and state lawyers. It was here in the Croatian Parliament acclaimed that such judges, and there are such judges who reach 180% of the additional award and that is something that is just. However, the regulation says, therefore, that the law is a fine figure with the law, and then the regulation suspends almost the most important provision that would stimulate individual judges because they are not all equal and that they are also rewarding themselves both by their efforts and by their efforts. This Regulation has suspended that provision for the whole period of 2007 which means. And why is this suspended? Because there's no money. There is therefore no means of reforming the judiciary. Likewise, under the Law supplementing the Law on civil servants, the same situation. You can't get better quality personnel, and that's true, and the government admits it here. Therefore, since the reforms of the state administration, here she has now been gone for the last year because the basics are not satisfied. Therefore, to ensure adequate salaries for such personnel as are needed by the State Administration. And so it's possible that those who, by force of the law, have to retire because there's no adequate staff and they won't come to the state administration, I guess for different situations and reasons, and not only this one, but I think it's this material moment, but it's the same because they don't see the possibility and progress, but they're going somewhere else. It means that she has also failed to acknowledge that nothing has been done in the reform of the state administration. That's what this regulation says, it says, because the fact that you don't have a candidate for state administration, that was a problem before, you shouldn't run away from it. Therefore, it was necessary to see what caused it, and I basically repeat inadequate wages and inability to advance and intransparency of progress, i.e. building a career in the state administration. So these basics aren't satisfied and that's why this regulation. It is only possible to honestly say that this regulation on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia is something that Croatia really needs, but the government could have done without a regulation. There's a reason here that she's in preparation for the Donation Act. Therefore, ownership is obtained either by law or donation because it is necessary to consider the first name of this future law that will regulate the issue of when the countries will donate an apartment or a house in the area of special state care to Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. This is one important question, and it is certain that with great approval and great hopes will be welcomed by this population, and since there are also great disappointments, it would be very important for us to have data along with this regulation, namely that the Government already has information on which apartments it has and, or how many houses and how many members of this population can satisfy it so that there will be no great disappointment from this population who has so many times believed in paper rights, and the way from these paper rights to realisation has often led to deep, deep disappointment. Now, I think this regulation is the only one that has excuses, but all of these point to exactly what I have pointed out at the outset, which is that they are unnecessary, but obviously the government knows how much it has given up on reform procedures, how much there is no means and practical to these regulations has recognised what the opposition is constantly saying that Croatia has not been launched because of these regulations... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83354	Thank you. The word has, correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, this government is not working on the basis of your mistakes and your sidewalk. Mistakes were too much to fix, let alone correct them. This Regulation was adopted by the Government on the basis of Article 87 of the Treaty. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be part of paragraph 1. The Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a time of one year at a time, to regulate certain issues from its part-round. Paragraph 2 and Article 3 has given power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the regulations adopted and under this Article is not... The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you thought so, you changed the Constitution twice in the first six months, you needed a third because it was as if you were doing ordinary beds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83356	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When someone from the heart wants this government to lose elections or other words when someone wants power so badly, then his arguments are on completely flimsy feet. The colleague here talked about regulations, about the launch of Croatia, about unnecessary regulations, about violations of the law, about non-compliance with the Parliament, about Croatia's unstartedness, and therefore its qualifications are completely incorrect and political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83358	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, of course, when we discuss the report on the regulations that the Government of Croatia has adopted on the basis of legal powers, there are always discussions of similar content, which is understandable. Of course, these regulations are usually adopted at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet or, as is the case here specifically at the end of the year, of course, it also does not sit on the basis of the powers conferred on it by this Croatian Parliament. However, it should be said, however, that we should consider whether such practice should continue to be carried out especially for the reasons why we, too, often give those of our original powers to the Government when there is no need for the Government to deal with it by means of a regulation, that is, to see what the real reason it should be for the regulation to enter into legislative changes. Certainly, it is not an amendment to the Law on State Measurement and Catastrophe. It's not even an addition to the Law on Pharmacy, etc., which is here on the agenda today, that it should have waited really on December 21st, no. Or, in the end, is it, in the meantime, one of the real reasons on which the regulation should be passed? Maybe some kind of elemental accident, some kind of ecological disaster, or, for example... why there was no regulation here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's there is. Again, if we look at a bit of an essential, better said content, this report today, then we have to say that it's always the same story. Of course the position defends that regulation or that report, I'll be more specific. The opposition, of course, criticises. He says it's not a good practice and it's repeated. And I think that together we should really agree and stand firm all together in some positions when and in what cases a regulation will solve something. Well, of course, we want to strengthen democratic, parliamentary democracy and that is good during not only this mandate but also for future and future mandates. Of course, the regulation is only made in case of urgency, when it is really important, when emergency response is needed. The main question is whether these regulations that are before us today, these 6 regulations are really of special importance and that it really cannot wait or why two weeks earlier have not responded or not to wait for a week, two so that the Croatian Parliament can meet. Let's just analyse these six regulations, not only formally but also contentally. What is so important and it was just waiting for the end of December 2006 that it could not be referred to a regular procedure, e.g. As has already been said here in addition to the Law on Pharmacy. Because it can also be talked about content, not just the classical regulation. Whether a large number of individual county initiatives have appeared to sell pharmacies to legal and physical persons. If there were no such major initiatives, why are we really not discussing this here in the Croatian Parliament? When I talk about it, then we should definitely use it as an opportunity to talk about how to carry out the decentralisation process in health, or we should talk at the end about education and social care, to see what the role of the county is in all this together, how much they are truly independent, or what are the effects at the end of that decentralisation. Here in this Croatian Assembly sits a large number of mayors, mayors, eventually from past mandates who have such experience and who can talk about it accordingly. In any case, when speaking about these regulations, the question of the adoption of a Regulation supplementing the Law on civil servants is also raised. I wouldn't want to interpret here any other way than to keep a certain level of expertise in the state administration. But the question is, why exactly was December 21st waiting? Yes, there is not a direct enough number of new people with certain skills and qualifications. But why don't you talk about it here in the Croatian Parliament first. What are the essential problems? I don't believe any of the MPs would be against keeping that high level of expertise from the state administration, to improve it if possible. But why should the government take the right to remain silent about the problems of hiring new employees, if they are indeed of state interest. However, the key question is when we talk about this report, which will ultimately be an effect on the debate on this report. The parliamentary majority will accept the report. It is debated because nothing can be changed in these regulations, or regulations that have legal power and ultimately as any other report, the Work Report is accepted or not accepted. But whether or not these regulations really or better said amendments to or supplementing the legislation that is being dealt with by the regulation, they have actually given good advice whether we can possibly improve it as representatives, unfortunately, is not being discussed. And I repeat, to conclude, I think that we should think more about whether these regulations were really necessary to bring them in at the end of the year, why we should not discuss it or why we do not have here any analysis of how many sublegal acts have not been passed, and the law of a particular ministry has therefore committed to bringing them in within a certain deadline. According to some information, over 50% of the sublegal acts were not brought in in time. And why don't we talk about it here? So I'd rather support some kind of initiative to do one analysis when we finally pass the law. Well, we've had a lot of laws recently last week where a lot of things the minister's been doing with his sublaws and so on. However, we do not know at the end of the day that we do not have the opportunity to be honest here in this House to talk about why so many ministers are given these powers. So it's completely unnecessary to talk here about those regulations that could have been passed, which laws could have been passed before, and those essential things aren't talked about. Sublegal acts shall not be adopted. The debate is here, it doesn't change the laws, it's just about the debate, we're talking about the report, not the laws, that's the point. And the moment when we will really talk about the laws, and not the report, then there will be a different situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83360	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83361	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Sabati said as many colleagues say one great inaccuracy, so here's a chance to correct it. He spoke of the collapse of winemaking in Croatia, alluding to 0.5 promila. A colleague of Sabati, and all colleagues, this is my area and I know it very well, there are about a million and 200 people in Croatia who have a driver's license. If everyone drank 0.5 a day, it would be 2 children of wine, then the production would be increased by 5.7%, 5.7% in Croatia. Since out of these millions and 200 thousand people, it doesn't consume wine, it's below 2%. So let's not politicize what's not politicized. We destroy the government, we criticize and so on, but with arguments and facts. And one more thing. When this unfortunate law was passed, I was against 0.5, and look at my discussion of what I was saying. So it's a big lie when it comes to the collapse of winemaking in Croatia. If all of them, I repeat once again that this is known, a million and 200 thousand daily drink of 2 dcl of wine in Croatia would increase consumption by 5.7%. That's true. Ask every geologist and man who understands the vineyard production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83362	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative of Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83363	Replication related to wine or from two other perspectives. You were right to speak critically about the tide in the regulation, but I'm interested in two things. First of all, as far as the glass or the shrub of wine is concerned, especially if it's black wine if it's good, it's useful for health what fellow Hebrang will do. Thus, it is indeed politicized in an empirical unfounded way, as fellow Lucin said, who wanted to suggest, almost that drinking is useful and that it contributes to the reduction of traffic accidents which is not true. I'd like you to answer my question if the government would now pass a regulation that would eliminate zero alcohol spills, would you and the HSS personally support it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83364	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83365	Although it's not common to fit but I certainly use this opportunity to repeat how HSS was to keep these 0.5 proms. Certainly and now we insist that he return, even there are some thoughts about more prominence, but I would not like to politicise whether it affects or does not affect the development of winemaking. Ivo, I agree that it will not matter, but how much this affects both tourism and tourists in the end. As much as it affects small producers and all together, we can discuss it with some other occasion. ... I mean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certainly if I were to speak or if I tried somehow to answer what my esteemed colleague Letica asked me, would you or wouldn't you? I think we should discuss this here in this House, but if a regulation is made, we don't discuss it anyway. Either we accept it or we don't accept it. Certainly to welcome but not like some kind of demagogue move. We'd rather discuss it here in the Parliament. And bring these changes here as Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83366	Replica's esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83367	Thank you very much. The fact is, with the Traffic Safety Act, we focused on irrelevant things. So we focused on 0.5 of the prom and we didn't focus on the safety-driving centers, we didn't focus on young drivers anymore. The fact that countries with 0.7 prominences are allowed to have the least mortality in transport, and those with 0.0 have the most deaths in transport. It's an easy piece of evidence. It's not about, it's not about whether or not we're going to increase winemaking, production or not? It's just a question of how much and did the production and the wine trade fall? I don't know and I can't claim it. However, why the Government has been increasingly focusing on resolving certain issues through the Regulation lately. I know there's a place to edit regulations, but it seems to me like this. Look at these 5, 6 topics. In fact, the government avoids marginalising this Parliament in the Croatian Parliament as well. Open a political debate on these issues. Because if it hadn't been for a year or two then six proposals or four road safety laws would not have stood in the agenda. Today, as part of the adoption of the regulation, we are discussing six important topics. And that's why. He doesn't do legislation. No, I don't know why we get more effective laws than simply to avoid talking in this House about political issues. And the question is, in fact, this Parliament will allow more and more government space to regulate itself so that it appears as a legislator instead of doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83368	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83369	Thank you, and so much for your esteemed colleague, Lucin. Although it was not the intention of having a little discussion about winemaking or about 0.5 of the promiscuity, I would certainly agree with your second discussion, and I would like to perhaps explain that further. There is a theme here, which we, as representatives, should really talk about seriously. I mentioned, among other things, whether we could get some basis for making an analysis of what direction the decentralisation process is going in Croatia? And I'm afraid by regulations, I'm not going to say anything but outside of this House, we're not going to talk about it very much. Is it just enough by decentralisation in health, education, in part in social care, or should we go perhaps wider? But we don't have any data on how it's done in local or regional self-government units. I say, I repeat, those who come from local or regional self-government have more information, but it would be good to talk about it in this High House. So I have alluded to that and certainly that regulations should not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83370	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Ante Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83371	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give some clarifications because during the discussion, the impression is that things are not fully regulated. Namely, when the mayor of Zagreb broke not one but even 4 articles, 4 different laws transposing the founding rights from the City of Zagreb to Holding, we warned except that we launched all the legal meanings of the procedures that we can carry out so that the Administrative Court and everything else, we warned that the articles of the law were clear. There's nothing questionable about us. And we believed that other mayors and other administrations were responsible enough not to violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia. However, in the 15.12th letter and number, it is simply here and it has been said to mean in the media even that it will go to the requested offers for the two counties to show interest in taking ownership of pharmacies. How, as a legislative authority and we executive power, we also have a duty to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since we have therefore had the duty to protect the risk of availability of pharmaceutical activity in the area of the two counties and to continue the administrative dispute, the Government then adopted a Regulation on the prohibition of transfer of property rights after a quick procedure on 21.12. It is therefore not a parallel system under which some counties may not, in some counties. The laws are also absolutely clear and the Law on Health Protection and the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Institutions and ultimately the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. And it's not about two standards. It is the government's intervention that when a county is being run by a dispute and we will see how the dispute will be resolved, the matter is not disputed for us, when a county has broken the laws not to be a model for other counties to be clearly and loudly said we cannot allow the availability of pharmaceutical activities of citizens to be compromised because of the financial interests of the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83372	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83373	Dear Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, let us return to the legal institute of the regulation with the legal force of the position and the Croatian Constitution and how it is also regulated outside in other legislations of modern democratic states. There's two differences to make first. There is a legal institute regulation with a legal force during the war, and then, as such, the President of the State is authorised to adopt regulations with legal force and regulate all issues that war troubles call for, that is, the first case. Another case is the adoption of a regulation with legal force in the case of immediate threat, independence and unity of the state and according to our Constitution there is a situation for the President of the State to do so in certain areas, but with the signing of the Prime Minister. And the third situation is the one we're talking about today and whose report we have today, which should be legally settled in the case of the so-called so-called. Exceptional circumstances. It means allowing the government to really in the case of so-called. Exceptional circumstances may regulate certain issues which are within the scope of the Croatian Parliament, by regulation or regulations with legal force. And normally in the legal theory, it would primarily refer to two situations. The first is the situation when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded, that means when it is carried out, the government performs the function of so-called "the Croatian Parliament". Technical Governments and other legal situations so-called extraordinary circumstances when the Croatian Parliament has so-called regular, whether they're summertime or winter break. But that's what the whole part of the nonsens is about now. It would be allowed to regulate, react that the Government can react with regulations with legal force just in case it is some major floods, some other natural disasters or something like that, where there is actually no time and opportunity, the Parliament does not meet and then the Government has to react as such to some questions that are in the part of the Croatian Parliament to regulate the regulation with legal power. But in this case, this report is not about any such regulation, such as one question where, according to the legal theory, it would be a place for the government to react and make regulations with legal force. So there is no case here for either of these because of the fact that the government means, that is, its resolution ministries have had enough time to react during the year and last year because it is about the regulations that have been adopted means all 21 December 2006. And that is why I can't support it, nor can the Croatian party club, because we interpret that, and it is also written in the Constitution, that this power is an exception and that this authority cannot become a rule and that this authority, means that the government can pass regulations with legal force, cannot be in cases and situations where the government already knew that these issues here are already highlighted, first applies to the amendment of the Law on State Measurement and Cataster, and the Law on Road Safety, so the Law on the Payments of Judges, so the Law on Pharmacy, this Regulation on Donation and the Law on State Employees. You knew all about it in the Government, but it is easier for you to go in this way by regulation to resolve the issue because if you go in the procedure provided for by both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you must explain why you are doing these tasks that you are supposed to do and for which you yourself have suggested that you will do them within the deadlines set by law, and the proposer of all these laws was the Government. Therefore, it is evident from all of this that this practice must finally be stopped once. We rightists can say that because we also warned it in the former meeting while the SDP was acting with the coalition, we said I couldn't make an exception into a rule. This is what we warn this government of the present, but unfortunately the situation is such that and what is the worst is that the exception becomes a rule and we have even had a situation for the former governments and for these governments as well that they have passed regulations with legal force and when it was not allowed under the Constitution or under the Law, you remember the regulation regarding those water compensations. But the biggest problem in all of this is that unfortunately the Secretary of State for Health did not respond to this supplement of the Law on Pharmacy, says that the City of Zagreb, or the city's assembly, is that it has unlawfully acted by adopting, putting the founding rights over pharmacies in so-called. This Zagreb holding company. I warned it at the City of Zagreb Assembly and now you've done something even worse when you came out here. You say the City of Zagreb has acted illegally, and now you are entering yourself in a trap because you are in this regulation in Article 9a. they have decidedly established that the provision of founding rights over pharmacies whose founder of counties and other legal and natural persons is not permitted. A smart lawyer will tell you to see that you yourself admitted that you had a failure and now you're trying to solve it. Now that's the part where you get yourself into a legal seat. So a smart lawyer who knows what is right and who knows how to use mistakes, here's what Palaric would have to know, it's always a awkward situation for him to have to defend what's indefensible here in the Croatian Parliament, right? It would be wiser to say that this is where the Deputy Prime Minister who signed it came to us, she signed most of these regulations. But what's the other problem? Another problem is what you have now done in Croatia, so there is a connection to this section of the Law on Pharmacy, you have made for the same or similar situations of more legal regimes, which is unacceptable. One regime means it applies to Milan Bandic and the City of Zagreb, and the other will apply to these other counties. That's your biggest problem. And if you wanted to prevent this, then at a regular time when you saw the situation because the City of Zagreb did not accept the views, suggestions, or the government or the ministry related to this part, then it was legally allowed to bring legal practice and the lack of development within the framework of the application of the regulations of different models. Then you should have reacted in 2006 when this course and procedure took place in the representative body, meaning in the town hall and seen all these shortcomings legally and suggested retroactiveness. That's how it's done legally, and that's how it should be handled legally, and now you've made a clamper so it can't be a bigger clamper. You have introduced for the same or similar legal situations 2 different regimes, and this Regulation on additions to the Road Safety Act, this Article 3 is special. We know that the regulation can only apply for a year, and you here say that certain provisions will mean Articles 5 and 221, this Article 5 applies from 1 January 2008, when this Regulation is not applicable and cannot apply. Article 221(5), second paragraph, of 1 January 2009. So again, there are pots mixed up and once you've done the Constitution, you're doing your jobs in good time, you're working in the legal procedure, and don't do these things anywhere in the legal theory that can't come to be the subject of a regulation procedure with legal force and you're introducing double regimes. As the situation is, then, this part that I have pointed to for the first time is this regulation on the donation of apartments, houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in the field of special state care to Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I kept talking about the fact that the land books were broken and that they wouldn't be able to do this part and that you needed to turn it into a law. Whether it's in a separate law, whether it's gonna be a donation law, but you're still going to get into a legal situation if you don't do it that you're going to have to do it. And we know what kind of problems are on the ground. Therefore, it would be your turn to learn from all the mistakes and former government and the mistakes that you have in the current government once and for all and to return to our jobs. His rule, and his Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83374	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague said that the government has made a failure when it comes to dealing with drugstores in Zagreb and that there are two different criteria, which is not true. The government doesn't have two different criteria. The secretary of state said that the administrative dispute was launched, but that the then authorities were deaf about it because someone has a simple style of rule to rule outside the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83376	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83377	Mr. Vice President, I will take advantage of the opportunity that you chair as a doctor to say that it is not possible in principle to avoid situations where social relations should be regulated by regulations. As in medicine, there are emergency situations that are resolved either through trauma or through emergency medical care or through emergency hospital reception, there is currently in the hall, I see 7 or 8 doctors, so it is necessary to arrange it in the state administration because such extraordinary conditions always occur. I will discuss these regulations from a specific perspective and this is a relationship with, between different branches of government. I will begin my debate with an anecdote from the small town of Vala, a beautiful town in Istria. I was there with Toncha Tadic before, at the end of 2005, at a restaurant called "The Stone Stories". The "stone stories" have different contents, among other things from time to time being a colony of artists, and there we found the famous conceptual Croatian artist Trokut who based his conceptual art on collecting valuable items from the dump. They had an exhibition where artists from different countries got to paint the same theme, it was a dead nature. And then I asked what was the purpose of this conceptual experiment and he said, the purpose is to kill the ego. And what happens in this High House is very often the killing of the ego of this High House compared to other branches of government. In fact, two nights ago, in the late hours, this House of the High, thanks to Parliament President Vladimir Seks, finally after a year and a few days ago, put into debate my conclusions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who had only one ambition. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia is informing this House not of what regulations it has adopted or what laws or international agreements it has signed but that it provides us with elementary information on whether, on behalf of the Government, anyone has signed any document agreeing to another restitution, on the second return of property or compensation for property taken from Italians by optans, folkloreists, Germans, Hungarians, Bulgarians, Americans, Israelis and others. In an explanation given by the Government, there is one sentence, State Secretary, which I would never like to read again, and it is said like this; the government does not question that I have suggested that we as advocates have the right to receive information from the government, but rather says that at the highest state level, an amendment to the Law on the compensation of people who were deprived of property in times of communism has been agreed. Now I want to know what the highest state level is. What is this, some informal group, some extra-institutional way of negotiating the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the President of the State, the head of intelligence, diplomacy? What is the highest state level when it comes to the conduct of a legislative authority that should by definition be the highest state level? And now I'm going back to this topic of ours. When it comes to the distinction between the regulations to be passed on to the state of emergency that several colleagues spoke about and also fellow Sabati and counterpart Kovacevic, in Croatia in general the seriousness of political decision-making was somewhat eroded, not to say retarded due to objective and subjective circumstances. When it comes to decision-making, decisions are made, they can be purely conceptually divided into 3 groups. First they're strategic decisions. Strategic decisions are being prepared for months, sometimes years. They concern some important issues when it comes to the state or society of the state authorities. When it comes to administrations, corporations, corporate teams of experts. So the first level is strategic decisions. Strategic decisions shall not be subject to regulation, that is, constitutionally, except when it comes to strategic decisions in war situations. Other adaptations or adaptations are made, they are prepared for several months, are usually planned and there is no danger in wise state administrations that these decisions are made in the wrong way. And the third is routine decisions, ad hoc decisions, and I would be interested in perhaps that the state administration not on this occasion, but on some other serious occasions make one retrospective analysis of the regulation, regardless of changes in government and social circumstances. That simply the assessments that the regulations have been adopted adequately with opportunities, with extraordinary conditions, I don't think there are great differences between governments until 2000, from 2000 to 2003 and lately, and that there are then constant rules on how to proceed. And finally, what I often get a little worried about are neurotic opportunities and a neurotic way of making decisions. For a more serious analysis of about 80 pages on this High House, I have done a retrospective analysis of the government's decisions of a more important character in which the Government is quite fast, it could be stated effectively, and then, based on pressure from one of the authorities or the European Union or the Croatian public or non-governmental decisions, it changed them. This type of opportunistic behaviour of the government in deciding on the one hand is good because it shows that the government is not stubborn and that it will not remain with a decision that there is no serious argument, but it is dangerous on the other hand and that is why I will list some of those decisions where the government has made a quick decision. It could have been a regulation, and then it retreated under the pressure of authority. Among other things, the theoretical explanation for such behaviour was derived from the judgment of what is called the mentality or character of the Prime Minister who has authoritarian elements within him. The first decision is 1.7.2004, you all know that, so I will not explain more in detail about the direct agreement with Bechtel the pressure of the international European public and Croatia to withdraw the decision. The second decision in November 2004 is on the property and withdrawal of that decision. Then, in February 2005, in the case of Helena Puljic, where the government made a public statement that there was no abuse of the work of secret services, so she withdrew. So it was a similar decision in the Liburnia case, so it was a similar decision in December 2005 at the HTV VAT. So there was one careless decision for me and a public statement on the occasion of some spelling decisions, and pro post in Fuss night, I would like to say that Minister Primorac made one magnificent thing for the Croatian cultural future because he finally made decisions through the Croatian language norm through the Croatian language Council on what a Croatian language norm would look like in the accession processes of the European Union because there is serious pressure from the European Union to treat the Croatian language as part of the corporate Serbian-Croatian, Serbian-Croatian-Bosnian and I don't know what language. And in this respect, I would also ask this House of Highs and the Prime Minister himself and everything to support this minister of ours because what he did is exactly what happened at the second Vatican Congress compared to the future. And finally, here I see my time is shutting down, it's been a similar, careless, neurotic decision by the government at the TDR and strike, and then it's similar to the behavior and killing of many parliamentary deputies and also the Parliament as an institution in the Glavas case. All I want to say is that I do not dispute that there are and there will be more frequent opportunities for regulation to be adopted, but I would ask that constitutional rules on when, under what circumstances and who may adopt such regulations be strictly respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83378	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Letica has done a very good analysis that I like and I myself have been thinking for a long time, but it seems to me that the results of this analysis have been a little presofistic. The government is not under pressure because it has this and that attitude, for psychological and social reasons. The government is under pressure because it just doesn't turn on the system to see what happens. The government also made dozens of other decisions that should have come across such resistance, did not come across, and those encountered by the government. I feel like the government is going to the system to try it out, so if it goes through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83380	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83381	I was misunderstood if it was understood that the government was humiliating the Parliament. So let's say Radiir Cacic, who publicly said in the interviews that a gang of homeless, unemployed people, incompetent people who run a campaign in public, which is essentially against the Croatian Parliament's institutions because he presents himself as a false candidate for prime minister. And not only that, but on the trail of that, everyone now presents themselves as false candidates for the prime minister. I think this House should start some disputes so that the public is not fooled and that there is no race for the Prime Ministers, but for the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83382	Thank you. I'm closing up. ... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83383	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Honorable colleague Letica just mentioned the case that the Croatian government was cheating on the workers of the tobacco factory Zagreb, twice giving them various guarantees. Unfortunately, the problem of TDZ workers to this day has not been solved. In fact, the police forced them to act, and now that all these events are being watched, it is evident that the Ministry of Culture is even participating in some negotiations with Vlahovic and the TDR, which has been cheating on the state in tobacco smuggling for years. These are the amounts that I gave to the chief state attorney and all the other enormous amounts and then it is no wonder why these workers were deceived when we finally see that the Ministry of Culture will buy individual buildings from the TDR in the area where the tobacco factory Zagreb was once, and it gives the whole story another strange course and about how the government guarantees are, how the rule of law works and who is essentially starting to manage. Whether this was followed by Vlahovic's law or followed by the laws of the Republic of Croatia and where this part leads to these lobbys that have acquired questionable capital, that these lobbies begin to manage in a certain way or through the executive authority or even through their proposals that we are converting into laws. That's a very bad message.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83384	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83385	Well, my answer will be re-linked to your chairmanship of this High House. I would not question the king of nicotines and the role of the tobacco lobby in the life of the Croatian nation but I would like to make another public claim that at least in this House, Mr. President, at last, smoking is prohibited. We are witnessing that the circumstances that Croatia is after the mortality of cancers that are related to smoking elsewhere are among 50 countries in Europe. The smoking conditions are down, in this cafe catastrophic. He smokes in all the work spaces. I'm simply asking you for the people who got cancer in this House and there's not a few of them, to do it urgently and without any delay. I'm tired, Mr. President. I've written four letters to our very president so far. Every time you promise to do something. I would ask that a decision like that be made next week and no more smoke in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83386	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83387	Thank you very much. Here, I'm not going to refer in the final word to how the government changed the law, because there was a lot of discussion and controversy. However, I would just like to correct some of the allegations that I do not think really stand by because it has tried to undermine the effects of the laws since its adoption and the results of the MUP in the past four years. I'm just going to say a few statistics that can really show accordingly that the results have. This does not mean that we are satisfied, it does not mean that we are not seeking better results and better effects and that there is certainly more room for much improvement that would lead to much better road safety. However, I will say only a few data from which it will be apparent that Croatia's traffic is becoming more dynamic but that we have achieved some results over the past 3 years, especially after the adoption of the law in 2000. It is widely known that transit traffic in the Republic of Croatia has been significantly intensified over the past few years. It is also widely known that the last 2.3 years have been the best tourist season with a significantly higher number of tourists compared to some previous years. I'll just tell you the comparison of the number of vehicles that will show how many more vehicles are involved in the traffic. In 2000, a million 401 thousand vehicles were registered and a million 790,000 vehicles were registered in 2005, which means 389 thousand vehicles participated more in traffic than in 2000. In 2000 there were also a million 801 thousand drivers, while in 2005, there were 2 million 052 thousand, which means 250 thousand more drivers who participated in the traffic. It is evident from this that traffic in the Republic of Croatia has really become much more dynamic, that we have a lot more traffic participants, that we have a lot more vehicles, that we cross a lot more kilometers. However, we do not have such a progressive increase in the number of traffic accidents that may be expected. It may best confirm that in 2000, 655 participants died in transport, 2003. 701 participants and in 2005 we had 597 fatalities. In 2005, it was the first time since '65, so after 40 years that we had less than 600 fatalities. And there were some discussions that this law gave no results, no effects, that it was missed, that human lives were not saved in application. However, I am now asking if this information that we had for the first time in 2005 after 40 years had less than 600 deaths does not mean that this law had results and effects? And especially if it is put in line with the number, with data on the number of fatalities in 2004 when we had 608 and 2003 respectively when we had 701 deaths. So, if the death toll from 2005 were compared to 2003, we had fewer fatalities than 104. So it's the first year since it started to apply, or when it gave the Road Traffic Safety Act results. We are aware that there is a need for a series of improvements and the MUP must certainly be more active to start reaching the desired number from 6 to 7 dead traffickers per 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, Croatia has about 13 fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants with these figures, and we must surely all strive together to get close to that figure from 6 to 7 people killed to 100,000. The number of traffic accidents, the number of fatalities and even traffic safety, must be affected by several factors. And these are: driver, vehicle, roads, meteorological opportunities. We are aware of this and therefore we are not focused on just one of these factors or on just one of the measures prescribed by the existing law. In addition to this focus on drivers, we must certainly focus on the traffic situation. That's where we've done a series of efforts to resuscitate dangerous places. There we have done a number of efforts to resuscitate those roads where we have noticed that there is an increased number of traffic accidents. So in the end, I only presented this data as an argument that law enforcement had yielded results. I don't think it's good to say she didn't give any results. However, there is certainly no room for too much satisfaction because too many young drivers are still suffering, because still this statistical data of 13 people killed to 100 thousand people is frightening and we must all make it especially expensive for me from the MUP, all to see that the number of people killed is getting smaller and smaller every year to come to that desired figure from 5 to 6, 7 possibly killed by 100,000 people, because it will be a sign that hundreds of human lives are being saved in traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83388	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83389	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who claimed that the law is absolutely positive results, which means the introduction of 0.0. Mr. Secretary, the reasons for, the causes of the car accident you said well, it's not just the driver, it's the roads, the vehicle, meteorological conditions, etc. You keep skipping that at the time of this Law, hundreds of miles of highways are actually open. Hundreds of miles of highway. That's when the drivers didn't die. And we don't have any statistical data at all how much the driver under the influence of 0.5 promila caused the car crash due to the influence of alcohol in that. We don't have that information. And these are all arbitrary interpretations. So let's not close our eyes. The law did not show its justification because in the meantime, open roads on which they were especially felt and were drivers, tourists from the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83390	Thank you. Are you the one who answered for the corrections?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83391	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83392	Here you go. Honored representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary of State's misquote because he showed us the statistics as a charm. So someone's eating cabbage, and some meat seems to be there, missing in that statistic how many drivers with that 0.5 promila caused car accidents. We are aware that neither in 2003 nor in 2004 nor in 2005 was a large proportion of those drivers up to 0.5 who caused car accidents but were others. The ones that were over 0.5. And we have to say, as the first factor of reduction in mortality, surely to increase the mileage of the highway. We have a better road, and that's one of the reasons why we have fewer deaths, not 0.5 of the alcohol in our blood.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83394	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric. It's final.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83395	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government must strengthen administrative capacity in order to strengthen Croatia in terms of state services in the performance of operations concerning the accession of the European Union and indeed, even though today the work in the state service is one of the most attractive for Croatian citizens of certain categories of civil servants is not enough. I mean architects, builders, because fortunately the economy started, construction started, and people of such a profile can find better paid jobs. Therefore, we have proposed that this Regulation enables the detention of individual employees with their consent for another two years after they are 65 years of age and thus we are actually equating official law with the Labour Act which is open to all other Croatian workers who are outside the state service. However, in the debate on these regulations, the claim was made that nothing was done in reforming the state administration, which is, therefore, an effective speech but I don't know who it was intended for, but certainly not for civil servants because civil servants know who cut their salaries. Especially public officials with high school supplies. They know who didn't respect the collective contract, so he didn't pay overtime and Christmas cards, so we found tens of thousands of lawsuits. Who canceled the pay grade? So the possibility of progress. It's all more or less remedied now. The new Civil Service Act is a European law. The possibility of progress has been opened, the possibility of rewarding according to the results of work has been opened. This will be seen in a month when the new Law of Payments in the State Service comes here, which will leave the booklet and open the model of movement in service up, but also down if the civil servants do not meet. But the professionalization of the state service was also carried out. In this regard, our civil servants also know that the state service is based on a public tender, based on knowledge checks and psychological checks. So very complicated, very demanding tender procedures, and their rights are decided by the Independent Committee on State Service in this procedure, by a further professional body composed of civil servants. I'm not gonna tell you how much we did in education. From 4 thousand people passing through the centre on various forms of courses only last year until we established 2 specialized postgraduate studies with the Zagreb University for civil servants and so on. The reform is being carried out. She has good dynamics and she continues in the election year. Here's just last week we had a law that, in order to regulate the handover of authorities and the procedure of further professionalization after the formation of a new government. And I reject any thought that the reform of the state administration is not working. On the other hand, insinuating that the government does not respect the Parliament, that it violates the Constitution, too, I refuse. The government takes care of the respect of the Constitution and respects this esteemed House. Here, in view of this item of the agenda here, there are five State Secretarys present. So I think that's it too, and it's at a symbolic gesture. It shows how much the government is expressing its relationship with the Croatian Parliament, which is based on the constitutional provision of the government's trinity and responsibility to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83396	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83397	I'll try to correct three false allegations even though there were four. First, the secretary of state says our economy is on the move. And as we were on our way, the best show was yesterday's discussion about the textile industry. In 2000, we had 45,000 employees in that branch. Today we have 35 grand. Or 10 grand less. Our exports in those 5.6-years to foreign markets only fell by nearly 600, 700 million kuna. The second mentions State Secretary of Attractiveness in the State Service. And here I'm reading today a title in "The Voice of Istria": "Porečska izjestanja practically in a blockade". In this year, 1230 unsolved administrative cases were transferred. One location officer, not one building permit. All your State Secretarys are running away from the State Service at least in Istria because it is not an attractive interest below, unlike perhaps Slavonia, Dalmatia, Like or somewhere else. And you're saying that civil servants go into service through competitions. Maybe, but not when they're getting into spies, like the intelligence community, so they're later deployed within the state service past the competition...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83398	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83399	It's a clear subject that we should also talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83400	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83401	Thank you. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who calls on the MPs to unfoundedly call the state administration. In the state administration, everything is fixed, so it's called for Christmas cards, salaries, etc. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs don't call unfounded. The finding by the occupier is that the state administration is unprofessional because it has been named, especially lately, not according to the criteria of expertise but political loyalty and personal loyalty. That's the find of the vacancy attorney. Do I need to remind you who the Attorney General is?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83402	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83403	Mr. Secretary of State says the law on the handover of the government is about the depolitisation of the state administration. However, it speaks only of the cementing of the existing situation, i.e. people who are brought in and that, in the event of a change of government, they would no longer be variable. And that's not what I'm saying, but you're being denied by Mr. Secretary of State exactly the state's chief inspector who speaks here publicly and repeats my function as a political one again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83404	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And before we go to the next one, there's one notice. The Committee on Combating Family Violence Against Women organizes a reception at 13.30 p.m. at the Small Council. The council members are invited to attend. So at 13.30 a.m., Little Councilwoman, the committee's reception on the fight against domestic violence against women. You're all invited. Everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83405	Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 73 for, 2 abstentions and 21 against votes, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83406	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Annual report for 2005 on the state of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia – Proposer of the Nuclear Security Council. In accordance with Article 25. The nuclear safety law of the Nuclear Security Council submitted that report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Nikola Cavlin, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83407	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies of the parliament and the distinguished gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Council for Nuclear Security is the advisory council of the Croatian Parliament. It was founded by the Nuclear Security Act and the Assembly appointed 5 members of that Council. This Council submitted a report for 2005. And a few things I'd like to point out. So nuclear security related care and competent jobs under the Nuclear Security Act are cared for by the State Institute, the State Nuclear Security Authority. So it takes care of nuclear materials, nuclear activities, links with the International Atomic Energy Agency. Also on some international agreements and conventions that Croatia has signed regarding nuclear security. As regards radioactive radiation in the Republic of Croatia, which would result from the operation of nuclear power plants in the vicinity or directly in the Republic of Croatia, no inappropriate action has been observed. Croatia has 15 stations on its territory throughout our country where radio-line is monitored. Third, a whole series of conventions has been signed by Croatia on nuclear security. And these conventions monitor and monitor their implementation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration as well as the State Nuclear Security Office. Here, that would be a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83408	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83409	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here is what the Nuclear Security Council has said as an advisory body of the Croatian Parliament, which provides proposals and opinions on the Nuclear Security Development Strategy, nuclear security organisation, international cooperation and other aspects of nuclear security. However, what is most important for real implementation and for strengthening the nuclear security system in the Republic of Croatia both in the organisational, technical, professional, personal, educational and any other respect responsible and competent and qualified body is the State Nuclear Security Institute. For the purpose of implementing nuclear security and security measures, the National Nuclear Security Office shall carry out the following tasks. The issue of permits to carry out nuclear activities, the implementation of which is particularly important to highlight inspection supervision, provide professional assistance for the implementation of the State Plan, implements the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia to various international conventions and bilateral agreements. It co-operates with international and other organisations and co-ordinates technical cooperation operations with the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Institute of Nuclear Security began its work on 1 June 2005 and during this short period of work and the results achieved by the State Nuclear Security Institute are recognizable. It consists of a series of participations in various professional and scientific meetings on the international agenda, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. An important role is also the State Nuclear Safety Institute in the field of education and training of all those directly or indirectly responsible for nuclear safety in the Republic of Croatia. In cooperation with other bodies, the Institute took part in the organisation of various demonstration exercises that should show the ability of state bodies, ministries, as well as the State Institute to respond to possible threats related to the proliferation of nuclear materials. These are certainly those issues and obligations that the Republic of Croatia has at the level of cooperation with different bodies within the International Community which are given special attention. And in this House it was recently spoken of so-called. The proliferation of security initiative, means an initiative aimed at preventing the proliferation of everything that threatens the security of the modern world in the form of various possible terrorist threats, and it is certain that nuclear materials pose a danger to which attention is given. The preparedness for the event of a nuclear accident is also within the jurisdiction of the National Institute for Nuclear Safety and Activities carried out during that period, indicating and showing that there was no increase in radioactivity in 2005 caused by the disturbance in the work of nuclear plants in the environment of the Republic of Croatia. The measurements also simply show that they correspond to the stationary, i.e. that fluctuates background radiation at the measurement stations distributed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In real time, telemetric measurements are carried out that are then distributed to competent institutions in both the Republic of Croatia and the International Community. So there's this so-called. monitoring in real time which in some ways guarantees and enables preventive action. There are a network of appropriate automated measurement stations with a central reading of measurement data. It is a system distributed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, from Dubrovnik, Učka, etc. Certainly modernising it in a technical sense to make it as reliable as possible is one of the most important tasks of the State Nuclear Security Institute in the coming period in terms of its technical modernisation. A number of international exercises have also been carried out in collaboration with the International Atomic Energy Agency. Different professional gatherings have also been held in the Republic of Croatia. Under international agreements, the movement of all radioactive materials within or between countries is subject to high standards of regulatory, administrative, security and technical control. And in that sense, the State Nuclear Security Office has fulfilled its obligations. Cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency is intensified as with other bodies. The report should certainly mention different technical cooperation projects both in the wider international plan and in the regional plan. Certain research projects financed by the International Atomic Energy Agency are also present. At the end of this report, it should certainly be concluded that during the past period the Institute has functioned in accordance with the available financial resources. There was no excess of the financial resources available in relation to the planned size, and in this respect, the State Nuclear Security Institute in cooperation with the Nuclear Security Council has carried out its law on the intended tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83410	Thank you. The word on behalf of the IDS Club has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83411	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed gentlemen of the Council of Nuclear Security, Madam Secretary, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, to be honest, I don't know what the Council's doing, but come on. There are some 14 points, let's say, from the authorisation to carry out nuclear activities related to nuclear material or special equipment, carry out independent analyses, security, issue of a solution, and now to quote it all. But I'd be interested in when, for example, you know. appear to be planted, e.g. Behind one of the Rokulas to remain a radioactive slag, to keep this Council on the ground and to keep the public, first and foremost of all, to tell the Istrian public whether it remains a radioactive slag or not. If she's not here, let's say those radioactive slags, behind one of those plants in Germany, Italy, Denmark, then I guess she won't be in Istria either. But someone has to say that, who has an aureola of some state institutions, and not that we're guessing it now. I also believe that Croatia will not build a nuclear plant. I read that Slovenians suggest that they move into the construction of another block, clearly there with Krško or with the existing one. It is also known that in Serbia, one such central is being prepared, that this is already done today, and then I am clearly interested in what is the nuclear future of the Republic of Croatia, which, by sound logic, should start to mention such an idea, should probably use all other alternative sources, but someone would also have to tell the Croatian public where Croatia, under quotes, with its part of nuclear fuel or waste from Krško. Since there's nothing in this material about anything, and if there's nothing and nothing, then there's nothing to argue about. But no matter what, I am really asking you to tell me since you said you were the advisory body of the Croatian Parliament, is there a stone wool factory that should be built in Potpica, which is being built, whether it remains or not a radioactive slag? I'm looking forward to that answer. And that by the logic of things in a country where nothing is done but only imports, Croatia should not have problems with any form of pollution. Thus neither nuclear, and if we happen to have any problems then we apply the tried-out Croatian recipe that has been at work for the last 15 years, we shut down those plants because obviously Croatia can live without industry, and without quarry, and without hotels, and without pipelines, and without pipelines, and without LNG terminals, and without shipyards. So, without everything, we can, but now can we survive waiting to get a job in some state administration or community service that remains to be seen. I said earlier, even in the state administration in Istria because of the lack of pay, no one wants to enter, regardless of the most attractive jobs in Slavonia, Dalmatia, what I know, in southern Croatia, Lica and so on. So, so many Council gentlemen, let's talk about these questions. First of all, I'm curious about what's going on with that radioactive slag, as someone mentions, I believe it's gone. But we also need to open the question of what with industry, what with investments, what with these imports or exports, because in 1993 Croatia, meaning in war years, on European markets or on the European market, was represented by 0.34% and in 2001 by 0.19%. So, the war years we had better representation on the European Union market, but let's say 7.8 years later, and today we are even worse placed than we were in 2001. We simply have to ask ourselves, where is this country going? In order to avoid any doubt, I am clearly against nuclear power plants, but there are those who mention such power plants in Croatia with the thesis that this country will not be able to avoid them either, but before that I would like to really get an answer about this radioactive slag, under the quotes of "radioactive slags" because I suppose that if such plants do not leave it in Germany, Denmark, Austria then they will not leave it in the territory of Istria or Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83412	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am correcting a false quote that says, "In a land where nothing is done but imports." Well, I think it's an insult to all our businessmen. I can say that there are about a thousand businessmen in the city, most of whom are involved in either production or services, so I think we should stop insulting everyone who works fairly in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83414	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed nuclear security expert Mr Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83415	There's a lot of experts here, so one of them won't bother anyone anymore. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the Nuclear Security Council, ladies and gentlemen. It must be hard to imagine an event that would affect the lives of millions of people in Croatia and Europe since a possible ecological incident or accident. It's hard to compare both war and earthquake and any other event, and we live near at least two nuclear power plants. Except they're not in our territory, so we have a feeling, a psychological sense of security that it's not in our backyard. However, 40 kilometers away from Zagreb or 70 kilometers away from Baranja is really close. It's better than 40 kilometers away. However, if something happens, the consequences will certainly be present. I'm sure we'll talk a lot more about this over the next period. The public interest is great that we are talking here about some particular problem of the type Krškoga, we would probably discuss from morning to dark and manage to argue with the entire Croatian public about the problem. Because of the Kyoto protocol of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, the nuclear energy we thought we threw through the big door slowly returns to small ones. So we can hear more and more grades from our experts in HEP so that we can start thinking about the nuclear option somewhere since 2010. Of course, such thinking is legitimate, perhaps even understandable, only it would be good to start talking about them in a serious, correct way. For this reason, and from the institutions dealing with this problem of the National Nuclear Security Institute here, we have now met the new body of the Nuclear Security Council, we expect them to carry out their jobs professionally and correctly. However, when we see this report, and I wrote it in dozens, I must say that this could not be considered a report. In addition to being late, we are talking about the 2005 report, and today is February 2007. What have we been doing for a year? I believe that the report for the past year should come sometime in the spring or no later than 6 months next year, and we skipped and slept over for a year. It would be more normal if it were a joint report for 2005 and 2006. Especially now, I don't know if I have a reduced version, if four pages of this report, we have 90% of the text of this Council's legal provisions, or Councils, or the National Nuclear Security Institute, or all possible conventions, international conventions. All this is good, all this should stand, but what we would call a report can be reduced to 10 or 11 lines of text. Since there's not much, here I'm going to read some five, six that are key. I don't doubt their accuracy at all. Of course it would be good for all of us if that were true, but no indication of how it happened. So it is said that in 2005, three exercises of technical support centres and six international exercises and convex were successfully carried out. All right. But not a word more about those exercises. Not who, not when, not where, not how, not why. Which is waiting for us in the next period where we should possibly improve some things because we noticed that some things don't work out on these exercises. Or further, the early warning system for a nuclear accident acted satisfactorily. What did that assessment do to satisfy the meaning? Satisfying. So it can be better. If it can be better, why isn't it better? What's the cause? Why does the system work satisfactorily? Or is that a maximum rating for a system where no movement can be made? And then the 2005 evaluation did not notice an increase due to activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as a result of the work of nuclear plants in the vicinity of the Republic of Croatia. Again, I have no doubt that this assessment is correct, but there are no mechanisms anywhere, there are no indicators from those 15 measurement stations that we've come to. Well, I guess there are some deviations, so we'll compare it to 2004 or earlier if such data exists. Of course, it is possible that the reasons for this one nerdy information were that the State Nuclear Safety Institute began working on 1 June 2005. Possibly, but I believe that in this year and a half, all of this could have been done in a more correct and better way. And then the report closes with another row or two, that as part of the guarantees measures, the International Atomic Energy Agency inspector has carried out an inspection at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute where no derogations have been established. Okay. I can accept that, too. However, all of this I have read is a complete report by the Nuclear Security Council, which should be the advisory body of the Croatian Parliament. It is possible that we in the Croatian Parliament were guilty too, so we did not put ahead of the Council more tasks and goals, so clearly then the Council could not even answer any questions that were not available. Let's just say there's something to write about in this report about the events again in 2005, there were several in 2006, but in 2005 for sure. Interesting about the Pax nuclear power plant in Hungary. We all know the "Krško" well but there is little word for "Pax" 70 kilometers away from the Hungarian-Croatian border from Baranja, meaning in the neighborhood of Osijek. That's a Soviet-type nuclear power plant in '87. Put in motion. In 2007, it should be stopped. However, in 2005, through Austria and their institutions and their associations, it could be heard that it was planning to extend the work of the nuclear power plant. Only after that did our institutions react well. However, in this report, we do not have an assessment of whether they reacted well, whether they could react better, what they asked the Hungarian side for, what did we get? We just know, again, by taking off the Internet and looking for newspaper articles that in 2006, according to the HESPO Convention, this Environmental Impact Study on this possible extension of the work of the nuclear power plant, where, in our old habit, this discussion of pro-forma was conducted only in Osijek but not in northern Croatia, although the danger exists for the entire continental Croatia due to the winds, where certain associations of green, ecological associations pointed to certain problems. Among other things, there is no detailed description of the procedure in the case of serious haemorrhaging, nor is there a risk scenario in view of climate change for the planned period of extension of the operation of the plant, as well as the impact on heat pollution of the Danube which is not present. On the Hungarian side, it is responsible that there will be no environmental impact on the environment. Well, it's also about any big thing that we're talking about whether the upper horizons, whether or not the hydroelectric power plant on Leste, will always say that there's no environmental impact. It's kind of in his job description. But it's a question of what we intend to do to see if it's really like that or to impose certain standards so that it doesn't happen. Well, then we can't read this report, I'm really not an expert, but maybe someone here can answer me. Here, Mr. Tadic after me, what does that mean, four Soviet type VVR 440 reactors? It's probably not Chernobyl type of reactor, it's less dangerous, but if it can be classified under those Western standards that we can estimate as less dangerous by can be dangerous to the environment. It is also said that there is no effect on the temperature of the Danube or on 1.7 degrees. I don't know what's causing it. Whether global warming or maybe a nuclear power plant right in Pax, but in the '80s, the Danube could be frozen completely. The ice Santés are huge vessels all over it but today these ice dreames I have for years, I could never see again. I'm not gonna say it's about Pax, but I'm sure a hundred of those Paxes have contributed to this global warming that we're all talking about right now. And what's interesting is that there are no financial indicators here, and there's no estimates of whether this monitoring we're doing, is he adequately paid, what do we have to pay? I've heard somewhere that it's just for the control of the Danube, that it's paid by buying it and selling it, but I think I've heard it from the relevant source of Croatian waters, about 300 thousand kuna for a certain institution. Now the question is, which institution is it that implements it and is it the State Nuclear Security Institute or some other institution or association? And is the 300 thousand kuna that checks the radioactivity can be water in the Danube, or heat, an increase in the temperature of the Danube, whether it is adequate or not adequately paid? So, all in all because of these and a whole series of other issues and because of everything this report hides more than it reveals and because of future debates that will surely follow, I also believe that this Council of Nuclear Security needs to come out with one full report. This might even pull back. And then bring it together with the 2006 report and, indeed, come here before the Croatian Parliament informatively for the education of the members of the Parliament themselves but also for the education of the entire population of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83416	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I need to correct a few incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague. It is not true that only the Hungarian side reports the situation of the Danube and the impact of the Pax on the Danube. There is a mixed Croatian or Yugoslav and now the Croatian-Hungarian Commission, which was established before the release of "Pax" into operation. Pax wasn't released in '87. It's until '81, '82. A year. And why do I say that? Because it's... The last flight to the Danube was in '86. years at this time, so when Pax was still working fat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83418	Thank you. The word has a respected representative on behalf of the HSP club Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83419	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Nuclear Security Council, Your Honor. First of all, on behalf of our club, I have to realize that this isn't even a report. With a great effort of will with maximum goodwill, anything that did not read legal articles would give consciousness to barely half of a page A4 typed by the font Times New Roman size 14. So it's not a report the Parliament expects, and it's my impression, Mr. Cavlin, that you've written this through will and by the way, and that it doesn't satisfy the interests of the Parliament, and on the other hand, it doesn't give away all the activities of the National Nuclear Security Institute, which is far greater than that. People have really worked, and I am really sorry that the Internet site of the National Nuclear Security Institute has no reports of them that would be far more complete and in which Parliament would have far better insight of what was done. Namely, the National Institute for Nuclear Safety was established in 2005 and it covers not only cooperation with the International Agency for... Energy, the more precise implementation of the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Agreement, but also a convention that Croatia is a member of the nuclear attempt ban, the Convention on Nuclear Safety, the Convention on Working Reporting on Nuclear Accident, the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, the Convention on the Prevention of Nuclear Terrorism and only for the monitoring of these conventions and activities with them in connection with them, has given full authority to this institution which it has indeed fully carried out. We also know very well that there has been a whole series of actions on nuclear material control, that there have been training at border crossings, that various international exercises have been carried out in the organisation of IA, EA, to that end. So the activity was really great and I'm really surprised why you didn't put it in there so the Parliament has a full impression of what was really done. So, with this report, of course, there are doubts about spending money and there are also doubts about hiding the real state of nuclear security, which is really unnecessary. So I expect the 2006 report to be far more quality written with more data and published on the Internet so that the Parliament may not have to get the whole reading on a hundred pages, but it must be familiar with what is really a situation. The Council is also, in fact, a political body that monitors what is happening on nuclear security and proposes to the Croatian Assembly that measures still need to be taken, which the laws still need to be complemented, or proposes to the Government because it is the NGO, which is only the Parliament, which still needs to be taken on the international plan. None of it's here. So this is one report written in pure order to say the report exists. However, you will forgive me, but the parliamentary deputies are written, reading reports, and this report offends us. So this report had to include, and it was not, a hint of a debate on energy policy, because I will recall all the energy development scenarios written in the Energy Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2002 were written before the barrel of oil came to $70. They were written in time until Croatia had yet to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on carbon dioxide release and were written without awareness of the acute climate disaster. Croatia is not the only one with ideas about the activation of the nuclear programme. All countries in the world think the same way. If we want the same amount of electricity, we're left with alternative sources or we're left with a nuclear option as a possibility if we have to shut down all the thermal power plants for global warming disaster and rely on what hydropotentials we have. But there's no indication that that's what's been going on here. There are also no more detailed reports of how the situation of the Krško Pax nuclear power was monitored and followed. Why don't you write it down? I repeat, this is just how doubts are born that something terrible has happened, so it is not written or suspected of spending money. I must also point out here that for the first time in 2006 the Department of Nuclear Safety conducted a test of the radioactivity of the sea around the American nuclear carrier that was on the tour of Split. This has not yet been done in 2005, but there is no indication here that the Council is proposing to the Government to consider this as a constant practice and that in every way possible powers of the council that it is it that allows the entry of nuclear ships not to happen to us when in July 2001, two US nuclear submarines Pennsylvania and Jacksonville were filling themselves with supplies at the Greek port. You'll forgive me. That's not the way it's supposed to go. No serious country would allow itself to do so, and Croatia allowed itself because at that time it did not have the National Nuclear Security Institute as well as it did not have the National Nuclear Security Institute at the time when the unfortunate agreement on Slovenia with Krško was signed. In that sense, and knowing that in October that same year in 2001, when those two submarines were hosting nuclear power in our home, so three months later, there was a malfunction on the British submarine reactor... It is reasonable for Gilbraltar to be encouraged by the council to introduce a rescue port in Croatia for such nuclear ships, i.e. a procedure for what to do if on one of these ships it was a carrier or a submarine to reach the habitat on the reactor while in the Adriatic, in our economic belt or even worse in territorial waters. But there's no mention of it in this material, and yet I repeat it to the council a political body that has to think about it. The parliament also ratified an agreement with the United States on control of weapons of mass destruction on ships. I believe that here you could say a few words about how the Institute sees or how the Council sees in the future better control of container traffic in our ports. So there's nothing here either. So our club will accept this report. With all due respect, this report is an insult to the Croatian Parliament, but it is also an insult to all scientists and employees of the State Department of Nuclear Security who have worked far, far more than that than such a report is routinely written to show something. We'll still vote for a report like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83420	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83421	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Council of Nuclear Security, colleagues and colleagues. There are two and a half, two, three and a half pages of this report. The first subtitle is based in the Nuclear Security Council. This is all one page. The second is the organisation of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. That's your second page. And the third is international cooperation in the field of nuclear security where all conventions, protocols are given in, agreements of the Republic of Croatia with, at international level. There was an exaggeration here in previous discussions as far as it was written in the report itself, but here I would say it in one sentence: "In 2005, there was no increase in radio activity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as a result of the work of nuclear plants around the Republic of Croatia." And that's good. It's the only thing that's good, and on the other hand it says that the Nuclear Security Institute started working on June 1, 2005. So we didn't have anything before, did we? Probably nothing. We didn't have any control. You know, this isn't a Croatian problem. This is a global problem, and if someone happens to blow up a little here in the Croatian environment anywhere in Europe, we will feel it very well, and the newspaper will at least blow it up like that Chernobyl if you remember which doubt exists today not only in Croatia but in many parts of Europe that the consequences feel. And you can hear that from these doctors who don't know why children are sick from certain diseases? Of the increased cancers you have locally. You have a situation in the former factory Juvanil where he was deposited. Rankovic's nuclear waste if I'm not mistaken, he's a slag. Some guy I don't know about even though I was building a factory there, I don't know what it is, what's the situation with that? But I do know that at least according to stories, a lot more people have died working in Southwestern than in Salonita. And today we're talking about the Salonita, is it? And what do we know about it? Nothing. I'm not going to talk any further about what Tadic said he should know. And this council is made up of respected experts. So we need to know a little bit more about how the Krško nuclear power plant works. In order to know more about the Slovenians' announcement that they will build a second block in the nuclear power plant Krško. But there's no sign of that, that's already said. We should also know something about what will happen to energy and will there be nuclear energy in Croatia? Are we going to go back to locations that were once explored like this again 60, 70 kilometers downriver from Zagreb? Or maybe Veer would you like us to solve an illegal construction there? You know, big money was spent on investigations at the Nuclear Power Plant Virus. We don't know anything about that either. And the question is that something would have to happen. Otherwise you can be careful that this is a good approach, it may be that this is the approach that it was at the time of Rankovic. That nothing should be known about this and that this sentence I read is sufficient. We don't need to know about this. The public doesn't need to know anything about it. I don't know, there you are, there's a doctor. He has a respected Mr. Hebrang who's a radiologist. Does anyone know what's going on with the radiological, hospital waste where it's deposited? According to what I've heard, there's, like, one container in ten years. Do you know where that is? I don't know. I heard he's here at Ruger Boskovic's. So very close to you. But we don't know anything about it either. So we have no information, and since I'm inclined to be a secret, then I could raise my hand for this report, but I'm still going to have to deal with my colleagues at the club whether we support it or not? Or to get a report that I've heard about, so this State Institute, through its technical support center, has been doing some job exercises to make me know a little bit more about it. I heard from the conversation, from Dr Tadic's discussion, which is clearly a much more quantifiable person to talk about this than I do. Because he's a doctor of nuclear physics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83422	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83423	Thank you very much. So here's a few quotes from a colleague here at the pay phone mentioned that the report that's in front of us has three and a half pages. I must say that is not true and the bottom of the first page says this: attachment, Annual report for 2005 on the state of nuclear security. And along with that we got here the whole book of reports...... No, not all of them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And watch out here says, "I'm sorry, there's a report down on page one: "The attachment, the Annual Report." I'm not defending them, I'm not their lawyer, but it's not right. "An annual report for 2005 on the state of nuclear security." I've only got this one. And when I saw the attachment, I went to the administration, and I got this book, and it really says extensively everything that my colleagues needed to present to the Parliament. So I don't think they're justifiably attacked on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83424	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Matija Sprah, head of the State Nuclear Security Department. ... After him, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83425	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives. Here, just a few words about the discussion and the debate that was being held here. Namely, the State Nuclear Security Office was established as a body of the state authority or a body of the state administration responsible for nuclear security, while the Council, of course, as you know, is the advisory body of the Parliament. What can be said in some way is the supervision of the professional supervision of the work of the State Institute and presents, of course, to this High House the state of nuclear security. As for the State Institute, I thank the distinguished MPs who have recognized indeed a very intense work of the Institute that began with 1.6.2005. Here I must, of course, also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which gives maximum support to the work of this Institute. But what's important is I'd just like to point out one important thing that opened up here in the discussion, and it's about the State Nuclear Security Service, or the nuclear security issue, covering three elements that are important as nuclear materials. It's uranium, plutonium and thorium. Because of their extremely proliferative capacities. Other radioactive materials are controlled by the second body of the state administration, which is the State Department for radiation protection. Therefore, supervision of nuclear facilities, facilities where nuclear material is used for different purposes, production of electricity, proculsis such as any nuclear ship talk, various research of ore, enriching or not giving God the reprocessing of spent fuel and extracting plutonium is in the competent national nuclear safety office, or the Council itself, which then reports the Assembly of possible irregularities resulting from non-compliance with international agreements and conventions. As regards the control of the work of nuclear plants in the environment of the Republic of Croatia, of course there are two that are close to us mentioned, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. What we all need to know, of course, is that we have 94 nuclear reactors in the vicinity of a thousand kilometers from the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the State Nuclear Safety Institute is monitoring the territory of the Republic of Croatia through its early reporting system, if any indication of an increase in radiation as a result of the operation of these plants has come to the territory. After such an activity following the accidental trig and the value of the State Nuclear Safety Authority through the Technical Support Centre which is the support, professional support to the authorities of the state crisis authorities, in our case the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, provides support, all possible professional support as regards the procedures for the public and citizenship related to the removal and other activities to be carried out in case of nuclear accident. Here we have today a presentation of a calendar painted by children from primary schools, and it is intended for all those living within 25 kilometers around Krska Nuclear Power Plant, of course on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that each family gets one such calendar, and on each page is written something about nuclear facilities and procedures in case of nuclear accident. So that citizens are warned in this particular section, or they can find out what is going on in the event of a nuclear accident. Here, that would be brief. Of course, as far as this report is concerned. The State Nuclear Security Institute's report was prepared and submitted to the government in the 3rd month of last year, and the government took note of that. The report is on the website of the National Nuclear Security Institute. In fact, we'd be happy to have you look at that report. And the State Institute is, of course, open to all possible explanations, i.e. interpretation of that report or additional information if you ask the State Office of Honorable Mrs of Representatives and Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83426	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Cavlin, President of the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83427	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honorary MPs, honorary MPs. First, on behalf of the Council, I apologize if, in any way, I have hurt your knowledge of it or if you consider it insufficient, we can, of course, correct it, especially regarding 2006. However, I would like to present some facts. The fact is, we are some advisory, political body of this House. We, there's no fee, someone's been talking about money, there's no money, I've been wasting my time. I was yesterday afternoon and today all day. I put myself on to the Croatian people and the Croatian Parliament all my knowledge, I am a professor of nuclear energy and ask me, I will answer you whatever you want. Some things get a little messed up around here. One is energy policy, that would be promotion. One thing is to control the safety of work. It's two separate, they have to be separate functions. One works by the Ministry of Economy, promotes perhaps nuclear energy, and the other is the Institute, or, already, how, one state body, the government's body controls under what conditions it takes place. And that, however, is good if one such debate is held. I am prepared to come to this and talk about the debate because it was also about energy policy. I'd love to talk about it, though. And I would like to say what Finland has done, a country that has the chance of a population like Croatia, 4 and a half million, so it has 4 nuclear power plants. And then she stood before the decision whether to go in the fifth or not. That decision is, you see, it's a political decision. I mean, she's technical, economic, energy, but ultimately political. It was brought by the Finnish Parliament. If we are going to go to the first nuclear power plant on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, such a decision should be made by the Croatian Parliament. Because this construction and this whole process lasts more than one term of government. And it can't be that one government starts it, and the other government moves it now. I am therefore very pleased that in some ways the Parliament has shown an interest in the nuclear theme. I'm very sorry that we got the wrong format and actually made a catastrophic report. But we were guided by the body report, so this government body, it's been on the Internet since the middle of last year. And then it was a repeat. It was just like I'd say copy paste, kind of, I'd say below the level. Now, as far as that goes, he might say some other things, 'cause he's a little bit of the same moustache, so this is about global warming. Global warming and nuclear power plants, so it's not a nuclear power plant that contributes to global warming, it's just a nuclear power plant... the only solution to global warming. [[You don't understand.]] Why? Because it doesn't emit carbon dioxide. It's from a nuclear reaction, it's not an oxidation reaction. It doesn't have carbon dioxide. And... springs, wind, and sun etc. they contribute, therefore, to meet energy needs and also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. But if you build one wind power plant or one solar power plant you continue when there's no wind and when there's no sun that tourist still wants to have power, he wants to use an air conditioner, so you have to do something again that if it's not a nuke you'll still have to emit CO2. So in a way, one is the nuke that keeps us from broadcasting CO2, and I'm saying that as a global problem. If we, and the fact is, watch out for all the countries in the next decade, the energy problem is there and it's not that someone's pushing only nuclear now, but that energy problem is there. See, put on application in 2010, 2020 and you will see in all countries including Croatia growing demand and inability, and scissors are dissolved between production and electricity consumption and also installed capacities. Therefore, other countries are seriously considering going into the nuclear programme, but I think it is also, in our case, in some ways, one political decision that should be at the Croatian Parliament. In that sense whenever I need to stop, I'm not the same, look out we're one new body, I'm not a politician like you, I'm actually a format how to write what, do, I'm not really clear you know. And so, the Nuclear Security Act has passed a regulation to set up a council, it's us and then, we've been elected to the council, I'm outside, the vice president of the council and four other members, and then we've chosen the vice president and we've brought some rules. Then the body of the state administration is formed with its position, with its apparatus,... That's where the money is spent, the question is whether it's being spent properly, but it turns out that even now this council, here I am asking the secretary what form and where it all comes from, etc. [[You don't understand.]] So here's why maybe it wasn't fully done, but I'm saying I'm correcting some incorrect allegations because only this report has already since last year been those 80 pages, it's on the Internet, it can be every citizen of Croatia look at it and I think it's as good as this little report of ours can see PDF exists on this, here I think I said what I thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83428	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83429	Annual report for 2005 on the state of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the following conclusion: the Annual report on the state of nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia is adopted in 2005. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83430	We move to the next - Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media in the period from 1 October 2005 to 30 October 2006. — Proposer of the Council for Electronic Media in accordance with Article 58. The Law on Electronic Media, the Council for Electronic Media, submitted that report. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. President of the Council, Dr. Dennis Pericic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Here I am, indeed, in six minutes, possibly introducing the content and basic indications of this second annual report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media, the second since it was established as an independent and independent regulatory body in mid-2004. This report concerns the period from 1 October 2005 to 30 October 2006. The report refers to a full 13 months for reasons to give an insight into the whole working cycle of the Council, which is surrounded by a key project of the Council in 2006, the household and the organisation of the 24th meeting, i.e. the EPP Congress, the European... regulatory authorities held in Dubrovnik in early October. [[You don't understand.]] The report begins with the general provisions of Council activities and the implementation of the same, data on the 51st session, during which the report relates and continues with detailed summary of the specific activities of which the most important public tender for the award of concessions for the performance of radio and/or television activities was a total of 7 public tenders for a total of 46 concession areas, making up a total number of even 103 concessions awarded by the Council from the date of its establishment until today. We approved four concession transfers, 14 changes in ownership structures, 20 changes, that is... the transactions and annulled, made a decision to repeal a decision on the award of concessions. [[You don't understand.]] We present in the report and the results of the infringements of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, we have brought a total, we have initiated a total of five infringements, we have issued 4 warnings and 9 warnings to publishers because of non-compliance with programme principles and obligations. The specific chapter refers to the allocation of funds to promote pluralism and a variety of electronic media, with the funds being granted to 148 publishers at local level. Furthermore, this report discusses monitoring, i.e. monitoring of compliance with the provisions and programme principles on the obligations of publishers, who also received commendation from the annual monitoring plan at high European levels. The co-regulatory process is discussed, administrative procedures are listed which, as the possibility of a legal remedy, are against Council decisions of a total of 2 proceedings. The sub-legislative acts, the five that the Council has adopted and the final chapters speak primarily about the organisation of the EPRE meeting in Dubrovnik, which, with its 152 envoys from 37 European regulatory bodies, was the most numerous, and according to the president of the EPRE and also the most successful regulatory meeting in Europe. We also cite participation in expert conferences and working groups, projects from the European Commission to other expert bodies. In accordance with the conclusion of the parent committee, we have also submitted an update to the report of which is an integral part and the financial report of the fund and the financial report of the Council itself. And to conclude, this report shows, and that is its urgency, that the Council fulfils its obligations in all areas of its legal jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83432	Thank you. They want the representatives, the committee's reporters to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Cube of the HDZ, Honorable Representative Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83433	Dear Mr. Vice President, members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The electronic media in Croatia, therefore, have certainly seen major changes over the past years, and independent public broadcasting means that journalists are actually protected from commercial and political pressures. In this respect, it is certainly necessary to continue the reforms of the Telecommunications Agency, the Competition Protection Agency and all other regulatory bodies. The establishment of this main state body in 2003 actually strengthened this regulatory system and it is a confirmation to both the Croatian Parliament and the Government that they should actually continue in this sense of their action. In this report, the Council detailed the meaning of its activities in the last year. This is their second report. Therefore, public tenders, concessions awarded, transfer concessions, cancellation of concession decisions, identification of infringements of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, then the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity to the media and various other activities. The purpose of the existence of local media is primarily to produce a programme of local, informative and cultural educational character, but also certainly because of the financial inability of these same small local media is very often the quality or content of a suspicious origin or some Latin-American soap opera or some other content that certainly do not satisfy the local population in the right sense. On the Council, it is certainly an obligation, I would say, or perhaps a strategic decree to propose perhaps the creation of a future empowerment of the private publishing of these media, but surely it is imposed as one possible solution to rounding the stakes in these media. In particular, this report describes the roles and distributions of the 3 % pluralism Facility. These are the funds collected, therefore, from HRT's subscription. Since it is known that the total budget is around 100m euros, I would say, subscriptions. So, 3% of us get a number of several hundred million kunas that are certainly interesting for all these publishers, and according to this report, it's a hundred, either private local television or radios covering urban or county concessions. The criteria for the distribution of these funds have been developed by the Ministry of Culture and in any case last year there has been quite a heated debate about the way this Council has distributed these decisions and I believe that by trying to correct these injustices since 2005, the Council certainly tried to mitigate, I would say, the attacks that have been given to this house, but it seems to me that the basis of these divisions here can detect certain perhaps unnecessary differences. Although, as part of this report, we haven't seen... requests within this "tender" I'd say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it seems illogical to say that the least funds, let's say, were received from this Fund by Radio Gospić, only 15 thousand kuna, although for the sake of it, it covers the support of a good part under special state care. Then he worked here at 057 from Zadar, Lower Miholac, Radio Korčula, or perhaps Radio Ogulin. It seems somewhat illogical to me that almost 3 times as much money has been given radio stations from Radio Borovo or Radio Danube which are known to broadcast in some way by peoples, not Croatian music, so it leaves one small space from where these small cells are 3 times more funds from this Fund in fact. Similarly, I noticed in televisions where TV Moslavina may have been misjudged last year and received a smaller amount, this year it returns the maximum possible amount. TV Moslavina, although on websites I notice that they in their, therefore,... Or in their programs, they make movies, and I'd say movies like "Diplomics", "Balkan Express", "Owned" or the daily erotic program, and the question is, why are these schemes based on this, so the programming schemes get the highest possible amount, I think about 800,000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, certain urban concessions such as TV Nova from Pula or Slavonski-ship TV receive the same amount as OTV covering a million inhabitants and has 25 meaning employees. So it seems to me that, or perhaps, it would be necessary in some way to develop these criteria in view of the amount of population covered by these local media, or perhaps this in some way fairer, perhaps if it were possible to share the funds. On the other hand, it seems to me that the application of the Electronic Media Act has not yet been ensured. Article 19 paragraph 8 of that same Act requires state administration authorities and state budget users to spend 15% of their resources on advertising or promotion in local and regional electronic media. It seems to me that this Council is still not able to sort of monitor it, control it probably because it doesn't even have adequate equipment. The fact is that in Croatia there is one company that is certainly able to monitor such a programme because there, I would say, a team of experts, has technological equipment because it also works for other national televisions. So they are also asked whether this Council has hired or nominated the right companies that are in Croatia, which in Croatia could monitor or which would serve them to see that the infringements of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media are somehow properly nominated. On the other hand, the Council also proposed to the European Union, which gave a positive opinion that it would be able to monitor the 365-day programme per year, 24 hours a day. I'm sure if such a "tender"... People who founded a regional company 2 days before the competition opened, it is certain, would dare say that it will be more necessary in the future in a way that takes care of whether the media is being monitored in the right technological way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because bringing in a tape or a recording of the show a month after that show was held, looking at those tapes, that means it's retroactive. It leaves in some way doubt whether the monitoring was actually done in the way that it should have been done. When we talk about digitisation which is the future of the Croatian Council here very clearly says that it participated in... forums whether it is with the Ministry of the Sea or with the Croatian Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why I think it would be logical that in this sense it is mentioned that there is no more point in giving concessions for analogue televisions, that in the future it should focus on the digital programme, and Croatia has set itself the goal of ending analogue broadcasting, so Earth TV signal by 2010. In fact, much more developed countries like neighbouring Italy have faced many problems, so I believe that we are actually facing one problem. How we will finalise it, how we will implement it in this report it is not mentioned and I think it would be really in a way that the Council is more actively involved in the preparation for Croatia to experience a digital one I would say the transformation of the television signal in one real way, not retroactively, therefore somewhat active, focusing on experiences from neighbouring countries, focusing on future technologies and legislation. It seems to me that this Council will need a little more active participation or perhaps more educational because otherwise, in that part of the marketing cake can primarily wait for one light... Or maybe destruction and some state concessions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few key problems all countries face. First of all, it's a way of funding where these devices that are needed by every household in order to even receive this kind of signal on Earth's platform. Is this a problem of legal regulation and the number of multiplex platforms that will be awarded through concessions. In most cases, the state determines some form of co-financing and, in this sense, Italy can be a model to us because it has 50% co-financed such households, but Italy has made sure that, in any case, Italian producers produce these devices, stimulate their production. We're not doing anything right now, and in 2010 it's actually right in front of us. As I have said before, if the television market in Croatia is difficult 200m euros, of which 100m euros is on the waste subscription, and 5% growth is expected, it is known that a marketing cake of just over 110m euros in the future will actually be distributed in this complex situation to a lot more channels than it is now and because a multiple channel with four national concessions in the digital sense, four channels, means one multiple for the commercial platform and a certain number of multiples for local content. In other words, in the future, we are facing a very likely award and four times more concessions or coverage than we are now. The question arises whether our marketing cake will be able to withstand this amount without very clear legal regulations, without very clear co-financing, and right now we are boasting around the world that we have 7 installed, so 7 digital transmitters, although it is known that in Croatia it has installed over a thousand repeaters, analoguely not, so we have a very large, large job waiting for us, and in this sense I appeal that this Council is more active than there have been several forums... the point because otherwise this Council will be attacked by precisely possible concessionaires, and not only here in the Assembly, and in this sense the HDZ Club will take note of this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83434	Thank you. We interrupt this morning's session. We'll continue at 3:00. It's Bellimir Sabati, the HSS club. We'll continue with the afternoon session. The word is on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, as I was about a year ago, was also honored to talk about this subject. Then I certainly commended it, so I'm going to do some things today, and today I'm going to commend some things even though I have certain remarks. As I was saying then and now, I am saying that this is an example of a well-structured report that contains all the relevant information that MPs need to understand this matter. I repeat certain questions, and I'll take them in order. So, first of all, when it comes to content, then it might be good to dial pages so that the whole material is monitored more easily later. Of course, in its 51st session held during this period, the Council meant that it had almost one session a week. However, I would still stick to some of the provisions relating to determining violations of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media. Here it is divided into three categories. One is the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure. The second is a warning statement and the third is a warning. As for this first part of the infringement proceedings, it's usually only about television publishers, so I won't even comment on it too much, although that might be the case. However, the other part relating to the pronunciation. As a rule, in 90% of cases, it is almost identical to the remark, which is why the warning is made except for under three, where the radio operator Radio 101 is mentioned. In addition, on 5 May 2006, he broadcast promotional messages from the political party, contrary to Article 18(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on electronic media. I specifically stressed the violation of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media precisely for this group which I suppose is more present but has not been monitored in all radio stations. Of course, this can also be associated with the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Why? Because it's good that there's this fund, it's good to encourage pluralism and the diversity of electronic media. If we analyze a little bit, we see a lot of publishers, so radio and television get that financial support, and that's fine. However, the question is generally asked whether these publishers who received certain warnings, either in the form of warnings or in the form of warnings, are they equally able to participate in the distribution of these funds? So a certain irregularity is determined and they are again also listed here in this list and receive funds from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying first of all for the reason this is still what we want or we won't admit the pre-election year. I already know, I have information that individual parties or leaders of individual parties are going to visit radio stations and are willing to pay for the promotion or for them as persons or parties or individual programs. Of course, a part of all this together may be considered classic shows that are useful but that it is very useful to see, since February or January, all the local radio stations have already started or most of the local radio stations are participating in the pre-election campaign. Of course, it's about a pre-election campaign. Why? Because by analysing the surveillance that is mentioned here, I'm not talking about the broadcaster but about the radio, the radio publishers, it's clear that over the 13-month period, surveillance has covered 30 radio publishers from 150 of them. I'm talking about the ones that matter to us. This means that in these seven, eight months, and theoretically, it cannot control most of the radio publishers and is truly concerned that those who have of course have far more resources will have more presence in the media, even more than the law allows. But I do know that the Council is working as hard as it can, that I don't suppose there are any other particular interests here, except that everything is done by law, and that's said hello. But I repeat, is it really possible, especially here at the time of the election campaign, maybe a little of that surveillance to boost? The third thing that in this report a little motivated me to say a little bit more about it is supplementing or changing the programming base. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media refers precisely to the programme principles and obligations and, therefore, in that paragraph 4, it is said that, in order to amend or supplement the programme base relating to more than 10%, the rapporteur must obtain the prior consent of the Council for Electronic Media. There are also four television publishers and 16 radio publishers who have obtained consent according to the law, referring to the addition of the software base to more than 10%. It's perfectly normal and I don't mean to comment too much, but it might be more information for all of us to see if any of these publishers and the previous years have asked for a supplement of that 10%. I can't see it from this. Unfortunately, I don't have a year with me right now, but it's not that important, but it would be interesting if we had some kind of analysis. Why? Because every year you can ask for 10% and in 5 years it changes 50%, well, it's probably harder to do, but let's say if you didn't get that comparison then it could be a little harder to control. And with certain comments, I would like to always have this comparative analysis done with each new report. So on the one hand is this change in programming base. On the other hand, let's see if those publishers, first of all, who were warned or otherwise, were mentioned here in this report whether they had to receive funds from the Fund. This should, of course, be valorised by particularly those publishers who work without any objections, who adhere to the programming principles which gave them the concession and, with a desire to expand, would be better. Certainly, we may say for the end that there is also a very good and significant Council activity in various other activities. Let's say, if I were to mention a series of sublegal acts that are listed here. It is useful and good to mention it so that we can monitor it more easily to see certain contacts that have been organised during these 13 months and on an international basis. So international cooperation. All this is good, and that is why the Council should continue with this analysis that the HSS Club is asking for, of course, we will support this report, but I repeat, because of this pre-election year, it is very important that this surveillance may be happening a little more and a little more often and that we may have if not before next year to see how someone acted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83437	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this report has been written extremely correctly with a mass of useful data and, above all, presents a description of the Council's activities in this period of speaking. Of course, the Croatian People's Party Club to say immediately will support this report. It is the second report in a series and we think it is a good way to communicate with the legislative body. The basic task of the Council is, in fact, twofold. It is one thing to protect the legality of e-media business in the light of all the rules, but above all, there is another role that is not explicitly stated which is at least equally important, which is to support in every way and also the financial development of electronic media in particular local media. I'm not saying this to local media by heart. I'm saying it with a fact in mind that's what we wanted or not to accept it. The educational structures of our population, the other day we talked about it, almost 45% of the population has only completed primary school and nothing more. To assume that these people are very hard to follow the written media. And experience tells us that their most common source of information is electronic media, especially local radio stations. The financing of local sites by local radio stations by foreign and television of course by this Council shall be subject to the provision that part of the subscription is also taken by certain, certain criteria established by the Ministry of Culture. It distributes certain criteria by local, local media. How good are these standards? At the time of their adoption, they were likely to have been considered and likely had a certain concept of the functioning of this instrument that would guarantee equal representation of the media and fairness in that distribution, however, I am not quite sure that the situation has not changed since then and that we may not have seen any new elements. As far as this table shows, the local media is equally funding from these funds, regardless of whether it is public or commercial media. They're not in the same position. By definition things are not in the same position. One local site which, a local radio station that is a public medium, is therefore owned by local self-government and has similar functions and duties that cannot be avoided. Which are definitely not commercial and which put it in a subordinate position in relation to a commercial, say, Banovina-type radio station or that spins folk and teats and commercials actually raises huge money. What local radio stations can't do. Okay. One solution is that local self-government partially subsidizes and finances the local radio stations. Some local self-governments do, and some people don't have the money for it. Perhaps that element should also be taken when predefining, redefining the criteria for the allocation of these funds. Control of large local media, I mean, first of all, television and radio covering the entire country is equally important. It can also be seen from the procedures and measures that the Council has initiated to make great mistakes, and most often where they are worth it, of course. They're wrong to put the commercial into the program so you can't see it's a commercial. Public media is wrong to have more space for advertising than the regulations allow, and the Council reacts there. It is good that he reacts, perhaps we should react more often, perhaps have the opportunity to react more sharply in such a breach of regulations. I would like to draw attention to two elements that seem not to me here highlighted in the report, and it is about events within the media that have repercussions and programmes and their position on the market and so on. One is a test award of concessions. I know of some radio stations that had a test grant. During this trial period, it seems to me that it lasted for six months they didn't stick to any rules or signal strength or field coverage or program, nothing. They simply jumped into the market, trampled those on the market and then won after the concession permanently. I don't think this institute is particularly good at testing concessions without any firm conditions. It also controls the coverage of the terrain. There are radio stations of a local type that have obtained concessions for a particular area, not particularly attractive, not particularly populated, and their transmitters have been directed in another direction, where there are also business entities that will pay for advertising, where there are a number of residents who will listen together. It seems to me that control is not the way it should be and that it is on the Council that in some future period as soon as possible, it naturally covers it with its monitoring and control system. All in all, the report is correct. He needs support. The functions and actions of the Electronic Media Council should also be supported, they will become more and more important every day each day, they will gain weight, especially in a situation where complete or majority digitalisation of the television system occurs. We may not quite know what this is about, but it's a whole new world of information. We are entering a world where information will be possible including, of course, entertainment programs and all other programs, all of which I mean by the source of information, but be on the table of every citizen in a wide range of options hundreds of times wider than it is today. This should be prepared not only technically, not only legislatively but ethically. This requires the adoption of new codes, new ways of looking at electronic media, and I think that this Council should play a special role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83439	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Mirjana Didovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83440	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council. And the SDP club will support this report. Although we have some remarks and suggestions that I will make on behalf of the club. This report is a good example and an indication that in Croatia we can even have some good laws that clearly prescribe jurisdiction and some bodies, and that body still sets out the content and priorities of its work according to some of its rules. And it ultimately covers and cloudes that prescribed and actual activity of that body, in this case the Council for Electronic Media. The Law on Electronic Media when we passed it some 3 and a half years ago sought to achieve, among other things, greater openness towards the public in the work of the Council. And mostly given what was happening around the 1990s around the award of radio and television concessions. The Council did not achieve this fundamental intensities of the legislator when e.g. declare a commercially secret tendering document for the award of concessions. The justification for this is that the decision is based on some other laws, the Law on Access to Information and the Law on Banks. We believe in the SDP club that this should not be a business secret, that competitors should have the right to appeal to the Council's decision, not only the right to an administrative dispute which is generally very long-term, and of course the situation in our judiciary that is as it is. As the Law on Electronic Media sets out exactly what should be contained in the decision on the award of the concession taken by the Council following the public tender procedure and the procedure for determining the existence of conditions for the award of concession, we believe that this Assembly should have received full information from that field of work. And that the content of the concession decision must be an integral part of this report, as should the annual monitoring plan. The purpose of the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media is not only to show the number of concessions awarded and the names of publishers but it is important to substantiate and explain why, for example, it is important to provide explanations. The concession was awarded by a designated publisher and not some other who competed, in which way the Council ensures supervision of the implementation of programme principles, who and how monitoring is done, whether it is merely a professional service and what kind of professional service it is and what is the overall annual monitoring plan. Instead of the annual plan and the evaluation of its implementation, the report lists only some TV and only some radio stations as monitored. Why is it that very quiet, and not some others, you can't see it from this report? We believe that it is also wrong for the concept that, in order to monitor the programme, according to the report, individual programmes are only technically recorded, and are analysed only if there is a complaint against citizens on a programme. Obviously, the Council considers that it is sufficient to argue that it is in the introduction of this Report that the report speaks about monitoring and that it provides insight into the annual monitoring plan and its implementation. The Law on Electronic Media, which was, for the first time, one quality solution, an orderly area of electronic media, has been resolved, the issue of monitoring the programme itself, the provision of funds for the work of the councils has been arranged, and, of course, its financial independence and the council can form a professional monitoring service as an integral part of the council as an example of how this is done in other Western democratic countries. A fund to promote pluralism of the diversity of electronic media has also been established and it has been specified that funds will encourage the employment of highly educated experts in electronic media at local and regional level. It is interesting then that one data, an evaluation of a professional association, a Croatian radio and newspaper association that estimated that such a fund encourages the number of employees from 500 to 800 newly trained high-level workers in electronic media. We don't know what the number of employees is today, and we believe that this information should also be contained in this report. Thus, the Law on Electronic Media has been quality regulated all that has been warned of earlier years as a lack of legal regulation. The Council can therefore carry out its work neatly, and nevertheless, after three years of work, it considers this opportunity to be a priority to inform the Council not of the primary tasks of the Council as visible from this report but rather of its follow-up activities such as participation in international conferences, meetings and similar activities, which in the Council, the Council has given him a whole chapter in its complete material only to these international activities and conferences. Far away I think it's gotten more space than what's primary. And the content of the report itself in its largest part is somehow reduced literally to the copy of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media. These two significant shortcomings in this report, the first insufficient public work of the council and an incomplete description of the Council's activities, seem to us to be signifying that some understand the role and tasks of the Council for Electronic Media. It is, of course, clear to us that the normative arrangement does not in itself mean that the problems are solved, but it is also clear that the Croatian Parliament cannot be satisfied with the incomplete and lacking implementation of the law. We believe that the Council for Electronic Media will take this into account and that the next report will certainly be more complete and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83441	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83442	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A report that is ahead of us cannot meet the basic criteria of a council report which decides not only on large material assets but which gives a very sensitive dimension of concessions which is sensitive not only financially but perhaps even more politically. But since the council is only a year old and a few days old, I am taking it into newborn pains and we will forgive them and I will give my vote for it, but with the following objections. In the report on the award of concessions, we see that the concession is public, it is public good, but in the way in which concessions for radio and television are awarded are not transparent and are not public. In this report we see who got the concessions, but we don't see who didn't get the concessions. The second thing we don't see is what criteria the concessions are granted. Whether these criteria are defined, if they are, where they are and who they are. Whether they are transparent and whether these criteria are objective or subjective to the position of each council member as well as possible but should then be explained when writing the report. So what should be added is the conditions for concessions, their transparency and above all the objective criteria for acceptance or refusal. A team more because when the council awards concessions for radio or television channels, which we know is of particular concern, I said financial and political interest, there is no appeal anymore. So the decision was made, there's only one lawsuit left for the Constitutional Court, so a constitutional suit. In other words, what the Council determines, it is amen because the case is practically and not filed by the court, we know that the court will only bring it in five years until then this concession will expire long ago and that is why there are only two lawsuits in the observed period. I would therefore be interested in whether there is any will to enter into some kind of amendment of the law and yet to make a secondary council or a secondary body where an appeal for such a political and financial and difficult decision could be made. Those complaints should also be seen what happened to those complaints that came before the Council. I know of two complaints that have been in the administrative court for over five years, and these are concessions that have already been awarded to other concessionaries twice in the meantime. What happens when tomorrow is the Constitutional Court if it comes to the person who filed the complaint, and the concession has long been issued to another. So does this system even make sense? The second thing that should be fixed in this report is the allocation of the Fund's financial resources to promote pluralism. It's that fund that encourages pluralism of the media, so it's given to small concessionaries a certain amount. The fund is charged 3% of the revenue from the HRT fee, filled from the state budget and charged from the surplus income of the council itself. And there's a misunderstanding here that's clear to me, but I still need to get out, because it's about big money. In fact, in the HRT report, we saw that 30 million kunas were allocated to this fund in the year under observation, and only 19 million kuna was allocated to the council during the reporting period. I know it's not the difference that's gone, it's probably about the dynamics of the flow of funds into the resolution ministry, which is the Ministry of Culture that makes those payments, these payments, but that account would have to be completely clear and transparent because it's about 30 million kuna from our citizens who pay taxes to HRT and through this and for the Pluralism Facility. So let me remind you, it's about a billion kuna a year, how many citizens pay for HRT fees. The second question about the allocation of money from the Pluralism Fund is what are the criteria. We see here is a detailed list of all the radios and TV winners of money, but as much as why. As far as we can see, we still don't see why. Let's say the radio operators got between 25 and 190 thousand kuna. By what criteria and why once 25, once 190 and maybe someone zero. We don't see who's zero. TV received from 184 and even up to 738 thousand kuna. I think we should put the criteria here again, the objective criteria, because as representatives, we get a lot of complaints about these amounts and we can't respond because it's not transparent. It's about repeating, about really big money. The following should be pointed out in the next year's report in detail, which is why some, in particular, holders of national concessions, HRT, RTL and TV NEW, violated the Law on Electronic Media and in which they committed violations in the broadcasting of the programme. And here again, it is not legally settled because, as far as I hear all the reports of the Council or most of the Council's applications, I apologize to Zdenko, it was not intentional, which is why criminal courts generally return and do not condemn such offenders. Of course, there should be the most severe criterion for our HRT because it's the national house that we're paying for and they'd have to be exemplary in behavior, which they're not used to. The most important question for me here is how to monitor the share of advertising in the overall program. Monitoring means watching a 24-hour program through a large number of days. What do I care? Who's running that surveillance? In other words, who does this demanding job, is it someone objective? If it's a private house, did she get that job in a public competition? If it is, why isn't it shown here? And who was rejected in that public competition and what were the conditions? And in the end, I have also noticed on the Council's financial report on electronic media, which is an addition to this material because we've been looking at the parent board. The financial report of every public institution financed from the state budget must be extremely clear because we account for our voters, the citizens who have paid that money. The Council receives from the budget a total of 10 million kuna per year. When you look at this table, then you see that the report on this money didn't seem serious. In the title of the table, it says that the figures will be expressed in millions of kunas, and in excess of income you see the number of thousands of 939. When I was in high school many decades ago, I learned that a thousand and nine hundred and thirty-nine hundred and thirty-nine hundred and thirty-one billion times a billion. Is the Council's revenue a billion and 939? Of course not. It's about the sloppyness of writing this tablet and it's supposed to be written worse in thousands of kunas, not in millions of kunas. So it's about the error of order a thousand times. When we look at the spending item, then I can't help but think that it's very similar to showing up at HRT's expense. So this similarity is random, but when you look at spending items, then you see that the report is not serious, or it was thought that no one would read it seriously. But here, there's a fellow Loncar very serious, he said he read it too. So it's not just me, so I'm not really reading the report, so I'm going to say what's wrong with it. Well, it's not a good ratio of planned expenditure to the expenses incurred. It has to be planned on a plus, minus 2 to 3% budget expenditure. They're here, for example. material expenditure planned 25% less than achieved. That can't happen. It means it's not well planned. And secondly, when you add up and subtract numbers, then you have to do it with the calculator. Namely, column 8 showing the difference between column 6 and column 4 to 3 places has been misrepresented. For example, To adjust the score. [[/Intruder: Why?]] 777 minus 600 is not 277 but 177. This says 277. Item 2/4, so it spends through 4, thousand 95 less than a thousand is minus 5, not plus 172. So whoever did this report should obviously think a little bit about someone reading it, so it has to be serious because we're responsible people, we're responsible for our citizens' money. Finally, I'll vote for the report because it seems to me to be the first full report in a year. It's only been six months, so I'm going to add it up with this kind of newborn pain, but I'm asking that child to be cured until it's almost ready to grow up in Croatia's radio-television.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83443	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the kids from Rijeka, they look like adults to me. Hello. Here I am, in this debate of mine, going to refer to a specific example of young people. [[Applause.]] I'm glad they're listening, and I'm glad they're connected to the 6th point of this report. Determination of infringements by the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media and indirectly to the pronunciation of warnings. In particular, point 1 refers mainly to the broadcasting of promotional videos which are not clearly separated from other software content. In addition, it is also said that most of the above are prescribed minutes for promotional content or EPPs. However, there is no mention of the content of any economic-propaganda messages or promotional programmes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media warns about the harmfulness of announcements of software content, most often films with explicit scenes that could harm physical, mental or moral development of children and youth, etc., etc. With the Council telling publishers that software content is broadcast in the late hours due to these inappropriate scenes. I will now move on to my example because I think there has been consistent monitoring of the program during this period, then it is almost incomprehensible that no one noticed during last year's World Cup, the games were shown directly somewhere between 8 and 10 o'clock in the evening. So 20 and 22. I watched one break, I didn't unfortunately write down the date, but it can be very easy to determine, but I wrote down the time. Very indignant by what I've seen and heard. At 21:30, so it's still a time when our young man is watching, especially watching the game. Croatian Radio Television, its sports programme has broadcast a German-language video called "Ruf mich an". For those of you who don't know German, we'll translate it as "He'd call me, call me." Those who watch foreign television know what's going on. It's literally one call to sex with the corresponding cards, with the corresponding sighs of men and women. Wait a minute. I must say immediately that I am not a cleaning woman, just yesterday Croatian Radio Television declared me an animation to the lady of the Croatian Parliament, therefore I cannot hide behind the cover of some heavy cleaning room, but I find it unacceptable for Croatian television to play such promotional messages as public television. Furthermore, when I mentioned this example on the parent board, when it came to Croatian broadcasting, Mrs. Tanja Simic’s director said very confusedly: “Yes, it may have been in the sports programme, but you know they are driving along some of their timetables.” Well, then I don't know, I'm wondering what kind of timetable it is and why the Council if it's doing some kind of surveillance, monitoring, as it's already been called, why it hasn't noticed this very, very atypical example and it hasn't put it into the statement of measures. Because if these scenes that are scenes of violence or I don't know what to ask to be transferred to a late-night program, then I don't see any reason not to show sexy calls on national television at half-night, either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83445	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the Council for Electronic Media. I think this is quite interesting material, mainly because the media and in Croatian society as well as in the modern world play a big role in the modern life of today's man, so here in all parliamentary democracies we are talking about the trio of government, legislative, executive and judicial. However, political and sociological literature often says, we meet with the view that media is the fourth message of government precisely because of their huge impact on society as a whole. The electronic media certainly because of its availability to the widest layers of consumers, the widest layers of Croatian society are absolutely as interesting as anywhere in the world in the Croatian Parliament, mainly because their decisions should be as defined by law by autonomous, independent, and, on the other hand, the basic principle when it comes to media is freedom and autonomy, and I would add responsibility to that. As regards the award of concessions, given that through them, promoting democracy, but promoting interest in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to national level, we have Croatian broadcasting, so we have a TV house and a Croatian radio that should, in an appropriate way, either be or promote Croatian national interests, certainly not questioning the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the place and role of commercial television, commercial radio stations and even commercial media when it comes to electronic media. However, in addition to what is of general interest, I would say that there is a general interest at least at local level for local self-government units, meaning for municipalities and cities that are particularly specific and therefore most local self-government units have their own radio stations that are trying to articulate and target economic and cultural life, cultural life in a particular area on the one hand and on the other hand, which must again be open to achievements that occur in a wider environment. In Article 61, as regards the award of concessions, it is said that most of the members of the Council are to be adopted and that is absolutely correct and correct. However, I know that these decisions are made by a secret vote, and then I asked myself why? Because the one who votes in the front row is his, must be the protection of someone else, and in particular, when it comes to the assignment that they should be the award of concessions based on exact indicators, arguments, and in no case can there be any other reasons. I didn't say it was, but it's logical that if we have more bidders for a certain concession we have to make it I'm going to say in one common language of the table that would be, or there have to be criteria that should condition the making of a final decision and I don't understand why such decisions are not made by raising my hand, but by a secret vote. Because I'm coming from Sinj, and here's a administrative dispute when it comes to Radio Sinj, I'll say my opinion. I don't want to get into any political complications at all, I think that today's concessionist like Radio Sinj are available to all policy options, if we're talking about politics or trying to involve politics in the local media, but what most citizens of my city think, I have to say it here publicly, loudly, that there was no single reason why Radio Sinj didn't get a concession. I repeat, four years ago, and with the deepest and greatest responsibility, I claim there was absolutely no single reason. However, I would like to say that when it comes to concessions at all, I think that certainly the Council should take into account certain areas that have its own private interests, which are interests and certain areas, so when it talks about that wider area of the Dalmatian mountain, I certainly saw it traveling, talking to people that there is exactly one medium missing for that area that would promote the specificities and privacy of that part of Dalmatia and certainly that such a single medium, I think of the radio station would also have a role in economic and cultural promotion of interest, a major role in preserving the environment. I believe that commercial television or commercial media, commercial radio stations are not the best means to make these general interests come true when we talk about local self-government units of municipalities and cities. And finally, I would like to say that I will also support this proposal and I hope that the President and members of the Council for Electronic Media will understand this criticism or remark in terms of promoting the interest of the Dalmatian Burn through electronic media in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83447	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83448	Your Honor, your Honor, Mr. Representatives! Unlike that nuclear report we had the opportunity to consider before this, I think this is more or less correct and we're going to support it so much. However, what is not correct is practice. Practice is controversial. So, the Council is working properly, but practice is at least questionable. Mr Hebrang used to say that in some ways this report was politically motivated. I'm also saying that in some ways it's politically motivated but I'm probably looking at it with a very different position than Mr. Hebrang. I think it's far closer to HDZ's interest than some other political options. But for me, something else is controversial. Croatian broadcasting pulls 900 million kuna through subscription, tax, whatever we call it. Their total budget is a billion and 500 million kuna. Of these 900 million kunas settle somewhere, it should take 30 million kunas in nature somewhere around 19 million kunas. It means that they retain 880 million kunas for themselves and all the remaining Croatian media is available through this famous Pluralism Fund 18,19 million kunas. In one word, it's a shame. On the other hand, without those 900 million kunas, Croatia would not be able to last a month. If on the other hand Croatian Radio, Croatian Radio were represented in the media space with 98% I would not mind keeping all the money. But there's only one thing we can say. They're privileged, everyone else is discriminated against, their monopoly in the distribution of money. To say Mr. Rozic right now, I don't think it should be doubtful at all, there is no need to doubt, and the answer, let's say, Croatian Radio and Prosecution threats is the best proof that it monopolizes public good. I come from Buzet, and right away these people noticed that we should commend this opinion on page 9. This is where the concentration of the contractors of DTR, TV, radio difusion, I don't know the Radio Zone Buzet, Maestro, etc. was mentioned. I also think it's absolutely correct. Then interesting are these violations on page 12 and 13 of Croatian Radio Television due to the covert advertising of RTL, also because of the covert advertising of New TV, also because of the covert advertising and not to list all this other. But as long as RTL or New TV can be understood because they do not have 900 million kuna from the budget or I do not know that tax and subscription, Croatian broadcasting does not have the right to covert advertising. How much money comes into certain radios and television stations should open this page 20, 21 and 22 and 23, and then we'll get the best data right here if any radios and television stations are privileged and maybe some others are neglected? Read it like this, the Independent Istrian Television 184 thousand kuna, I think it's small. In order to equalise those incomes with, I don't know, Slavonski-ship TV, TV Adriatic, I don't know Moslavina, TV Nova, etc., TV station Sljeme and don't count the rest. However, regardless of what is more or less this report is correct. Why? For reasons that the Council in question has relatively modest means and then more or less tries to assign to everyone through that cake as much as they think they don't need at some point but let's not need it enough than just a little bit to cloud someone's eyes. All in all, if more funds remained to the Council then the distribution of money would certainly be fairer but it depends primarily on Croatia's broadcasting or their owners, which is this House. And as much as I think it would be correct, it would be fair to send a clear, unambiguous message that in this redistribution of the television subscription in the future, Croatia's broadcasting must count on greater separations for a whole series of radio and television stations distributed across the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, we're going to have one monopolies television and we're going to have television or second-class radio stations, and that's, at the very least, for the sake of the credibility of the media space, and that should change the political space.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83449	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83450	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain didn't say exactly when he quoted my words to Hebrang as saying that the report was politically motivated. Of course it's not politically motivated, nor did I say it. I just said that it was awkwardly engaged in a part of the decision on concessions that are politically and financially very interesting. And my colleague Cain would like it to be politically motivated, and he's imagining it, and then he says it, but it's not this time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83451	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83452	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, good fellow Cain noticed about the Financial Report of Croatian Television. But it is evident in everything that the Croatian government has given a positive opinion on such a financial report. The HDZ Club proposed that the report be taken into account, instead of acting in the way I proposed on behalf of the HSP Club and Mr Lončar, that the Government, based on new circumstances and new facts, reconsider the financial report and take into account all those contracts that have now appeared in public, which Mr. Rožic handed over to the main state attorney. And now what happens is that they're speculating, and it's now the ones who said there are doubts and that these doubts should be investigated, but the best part of it is that I have a statement from this Hanžeković-Radakovic Attorney's Office that makes, what I've been saying for years, 3 and a half million kunas on no job, on a non-payable basis, for not paying that subscription and then they say, no, no, he says. They give us an advance on television so we can do it when we charge it in the executive procedure, then we give it back to them. So Croatian television can't give that part to a lawyer's house if it has concluded a contract, one for a part if they fail to charge for it, but it's the job of such a nature that lawyers can do on Croatian television can do. It would be cheaper for Croatian television, for Croatian citizens to do so. Therefore, it is another evidence that one crime is being defended by other crime like this company, Hanžekovic-Radakovic. God and Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83453	Replica response, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83454	Here's a greeting to the Rivers. We need to ask that gentleman over there why the river didn't win the handball championship, but we'll fight for someone new. Yes, there are more moments, Mr. Kovacevic. He says it's not 74 million but they've got only 34 million kuna. But you're surprised when HDZ, for example, changes attitudes when it comes to them. Says Mr. Hebrang I'm seeing something. And what do they see when they're so simple as to get Copernicus through these conclusions and their own views?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83455	Great. Does the President of the Council want a final review? Dennis Pericic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83456	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Here's a little bit. I'd like to thank you for all the nice things you've said about our report and more. In all your criticisms that I really hold in our further work. We'll study them, examine the cases we've heard about if we don't already have answers for them, and in any case try to upgrade everything we can in the future of our actions. I would, however, simply have to say two basic things because I just don't want the Council to get through the wrong prism, the optics evaluated. The council does not receive, perhaps the lapus was, not a single kuna from the state budget. The Council has an independent source of funding, 0.5% of the total gross income generated by radio and television activities by publishers over the past year. Which is legally well-recognized in Europe because it allows financial independence and then again the prerequisite for any other independence of regulators. And secondly, there were aspects of digitization that await us. The aspects of digitisation that were mentioned here in one longer presentation, especially those technically, are not directly within the authority of the Council. However, the Council is already actively engaged in social affairs, which was mentioned here also by the ethical context of digitisation, or media convergence, and is also ready for all competences on programming, therefore, regulatory aspects in terms of software content and digitalisation platforms. I am pleased and grateful that you have noticed one trend, which is the trend of developing the growth of activity, and thus the possibility of doing something in all areas of the Council's work, from monitoring to transparency in work. I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83457	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 October 2005 to 30 October 2006 I am voting on the following conclusion: the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media for the period from 1 October 2005 to 30 October 2006 is hereby adopted. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 92 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83460	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, with the Final Proposal for the Law. And this Law was supported by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. However, before the Law is explained, I will have to refer to the thesis which has been laid down several times on the working bodies, and as regards the application of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, referring to this Constitutional Law, it is said that the constitutional deadline for the adoption of laws governing the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has passed. However, the Club of HNS Representatives withdrew its proposal for a bill on election of MPs with an explanation that the constitutional deadline for the adoption of the Law had expired. Amendments to the Constitution have been adopted in the Croatian Parliament and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of this particular Constitution has also been adopted after the amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, at that time, the Constitutional Law lays down deadlines for individual legislation to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and there are very serious lawyers who believe that the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Representatives on 2 April 2003 is consummated by that provision of the Constitutional Law. However, regardless, the government considers that the Law, that if the constitutional law were to be respected, the deadline for adopting and amending electoral legislation would expire on 20 February this year. In the previous term when the Government proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted on 2 April 2003 and on the same day published in the "National Journal" was adopted 2 months in the like election year. After 3 years and 2 months of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament. So we believe that the term of office lasts for 4 years, it is a constitutional category, and that elections must be held 60 days after the end of the term of office or the disbandment of the Croatian Parliament. Despite the adoption of the Election Law on 2 April 2003, the elections were held in November of the same year. However, the government believes it is one of the most important values of the electoral process, which is that they are implemented according to the same electoral rules. Therefore, this law does not change the electoral rules but does not bring them into line with the laws previously passed in order to be nomotechnically correct and to specify the provision on the rights of parliamentary parties to compensation for election promotion. This law replaces the term "secretary of State" with the words "Secretary of State". It is prescribed that parliamentary parties who had representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the day of its constitution and who participate in the elections have the right to compensate for the cost of election promotion in a one-year amount determined for the year in which the elections are held. So, we also want to restore citizens' trust in the electoral processes, to political parties and to detimise the defects that were candidates on the lists of certain parties or coalitions and not to go to independent representatives or other lines. Article 3 is deleted from the provisions of the laws which have ceased to apply to the adoption of the Law on the State Election Commission. In fact, in content these are norms that edited the special composition of the State Election Commission to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament. As the Law on the State Election Commission was passed in the meantime, these standards no longer make sense. Since it is a small and necessary improvement in the electoral legislation, it is not at all about changes in the electoral system I propose that the Croatian Parliament support the adoption of this law and by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83461	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83462	Dear Mr President, in accordance with the provisions of Article 223(3) of the Croatian Party, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I propose that both the government's proposal and the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly, which is proposed by the HSP Club of Representatives, which is the 28th point, which means we have always practiced this in such or similar situations, and which is justified under Article 223(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83463	Dear Mr President, in accordance with the provisions of Article 223(3) of the Croatian Party, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I propose that both the government's proposal and the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly, which is proposed by the HSP Club of Representatives, which is the 28th point, which means we have always practiced this in such or similar situations, and which is justified under Article 223(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83464	On behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club because of this irresponsible relationship and government, and because of all this I am looking for a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83465	Thank you very much. Ten minutes. We'll continue the session after the break. The club of HSP representatives, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic in a gentle review of the full affirmative towards...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83467	To Palaric. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On 17 May 2006, the Croatian Party Law Club referred to the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The item has been on the agenda since June 2006, and thus the government has had plenty of time to write its opinion and to show itself. And otherwise, as President of the Croatian Parliament, you have the right and obligation if the Government does not do its part, it does not satisfy the demands of you as President of the Parliament to give an opinion on the draft law that is in the procedure, to draw attention to the Government. I don't know if you did. Obviously you didn't do it because what happened today is what happened. Therefore, I continue to insist on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that, in accordance with Article 223(3) of the joint debate, because it is legally presupposed if the Government has given its proposal for a law, then it is automatically in this way, and it only meant 1 February. On February 1st, that is, February 1st, yes. February 1st is also a memo sent by the Government to you and on February 1st is a memo that you send to us representatives. So there's already a visible variant that the government doesn't accept our bill as soon as it's directed its own. So we've had cases of some kind or similar nature before where the government didn't think about it, and you're putting it on the agenda because the same situation was a united debate, and the same was the explanation of the government's proposal, so we'll discuss it. He doesn't have an opinion, but he can argue because he's already being treated for this. So the thing is very clear and very simple. So we insist on having a united debate. Because what do we want? We said it in time. At a time when this law was to be discussed. A letter vote should be given to Croatian citizens who do not have residence in Croatia. If Furio Radin can vote in a letter to the Italian Parliament, why can't Jozo of Sydney vote in favour of the Croatian Parliament? This is the constitutional right and obligation of Croatia to allow all Croatian citizens to be elected and elected. Therefore, conditions were met. We also have two more major changes. There's no pre-election coalition to see who's representing. And the third thing here is about what's so-called. independent lists to make the political scene serious. That there are at least 5,000 votes so that someone can run with an independent list and be accepted as such. We therefore insist, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 223, in accordance with the practice so far in the Croatian Parliament and all that Pejo thinks is a united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83468	Thank you very much. I can't unite the debate because there are no formal assumptions. If there is an opinion from the government during the next week... Then I'll put it on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to a debate. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83469	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 74th session held on 6 February 2007 discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 1 February 2007. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final draft law. In addition, the Committee maintains the need to clarify Article 2. The final draft of the law in a way to determine that it refers to the Croatian Parliament's mandate before the elections are held. In this connection, the Committee has laid down an amendment to the Final Proposal for a Law. A member of the Dragutin Lesar Committee holds that the law referred to cannot be passed because it is outside the deadline prescribed by the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and has therefore requested that its opinion be specifically set out in accordance with Article 51. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. After the debate, the Committee voted by a majority; 7 votes for and 1 vote against proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the next amendment to Article 2 of the current Law. In Article 2, paragraph 1 behind the word "constituting him" adds the words "in office before holding the elections". Explanation: the amendment proposes an clarification of the provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83470	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83471	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues first not about the content of the amendments offered or amendments in the law but about the procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution contains a provision that electoral laws will be passed no later than one year before the elections are held. Why was such a formulation then used? What does plural mean when it's written "saconi"? What it means is the electoral laws remain unclear and I do not want to be the interpreter of the Constitution or the Constitutional Law, but I have the right to my opinion. Since this topic is now open and three weeks ago public controversy on possible dates as deadlines for amending electoral laws based on the statements of Mr. Seks's President and our positions, it has often been subject to controversy, criticism, different approaches and interpretations, we have addressed and asked for the opinions of several expert experts among others and judges of the Constitutional Court. Those who were judges of the Constitutional Court are no longer, but we also asked the candidate for a future member or judge of the Constitutional Court for their opinion, and we received quite interesting answers. The first group includes those who gave their opinion but not officially but off the record that Article 4 or the intention of Article 4 or the spirit of the law in Article 4 is consummated by the single adoption of the Election Law in 2002 if I am not wrong. So that provision of this constitutional law actually refers to the establishment of the legislation of the electoral system after constitutional changes and that the provision is consummated. Others claimed that the deadlines for amending the electoral laws were in accordance with the Constitution 60 days no later than 60 days after the end of the term of office of this Assembly, that is, the date of the Assembly's constitution is 22 December 2003 and that the last day of the elections under the Constitution is 20 February 2008 and that this is the last day when the Parliament is allowed to amend the Election Law. That's the view of the President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare. However, a new dilemma has now been opened. If we also accept such an interpretation of this provision of the law, the constitutional law on the conduct of the elections then the question arises whether the deadline applies only to the day the elections are held or, within that time period until 20 February 2008, elections must be held and possibly re-elections in some of the polling stations if the State Election Commission requests a re-election of the elections for violations of procedures or regulations at one, two, three or ten polling stations. So whether the elections must be held, that first round is held until the 20th, or whether this is the last day, and that these possibly additional or repeated elections may be after 20 February 2008. To that question, we got three answers again. One view that both elections must be held by 20 February 2008 at the latest, the other held that only the regular first election cycle must be held by 20 February 2008 and that the additional or repeated elections may be cancelled afterwards. And the third group of interpretations is that the word "one year before the elections" is not too deaf but an instruction and that the Assembly itself has not denied the right to change electoral legislation by limiting itself to a time when it could penetrate electoral legislation, so that the Assembly can practically change electoral laws until the election day. So that's the third group of opinions that we've got this opinion in writing. So these were all oral, this is what we got in writing. So, practically, the Parliament could change the electoral law until the moment it's only disbanding, disbanding or calling elections. The president asked who he was, so I gave him that paper. ... I won't say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But none of those we consulted and advised Mr. Secretary of State, it's not for you, don't be angry. You could also advise those people, so... But none of them we consulted on February 20th established as the final date of the possibility of amending the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I tried to challenge the debate and get an opinion in my opinion on the most important parent body when it comes to this. There was no will to discuss it, so I asked the chairman of the board, a colleague of Bosniaks. Is it ready that before voting on the law tomorrow, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system unequivocally interprets what is the final deadline within which the Parliament can amend electoral laws. Not just now because of these changes, but in the principle of behavior and in the future. And by doing so, we and everyone we believe would remove all possible dilemmas of different interpretations of deadlines, and in particular what is included in election laws and why the constitutional law used a multitude when we know that we have only one law in the election for the Parliament, no more. We are precisely managing this approach, precisely by this approach, but also by validating or wanting to create one relationship that as a legal good and in order to stabilise the electoral system, one year before the election, the electoral system must not be changed from the procedure to withdraw its draft law which was submitted in the procedure as early as 18 January 2006, so there was a time in the constitutional deadline to discuss it and the government's opinion was given in March last year, the debate was not opened, and the fact that the first and second readings and eventual adoption could not be carried out, and even until 20 February this year, not wanting to burden the Parliament with a debate which cannot be concluded by voting, its proposal of the law withdrew from the procedure. It's about the procedure. I want to believe that with one such interpretation and a firm attitude and the removal of all the dilemmas about the deadlines and the President of the Parliament and us club presidents and MPs, we will no longer have to conduct controversy through the media and the public, rather than be the position of the Committee on the Constitution and the political system and remove all dilemmas. And as for the content offered to change the law, I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State. There has been no Deputy Minister in the Republic of Croatia for three years. In the Electoral Law, the change could have been made the moment the deputy minister's post was turned into the secretary of state. Furthermore, the financing of political parties and the non-fleeing of both parties and the party tow their money, the money of the parties, could have been made three years ago and the erasure of the provisions of Articles 53, 54 and 55 could have been done exactly one year ago when the Parliament passed the Law on the State Election Commission and it was then known that those three articles should be deleted. Therefore, which were the reasons why something that was known for a year, no later than a year, was known to be amended in the electoral law, was not given in the procedure, but was waiting for the last session of Parliament before the deadline for which both the President of the Parliament considered the final date of the amendment of the law to come with the proposal. Is that a clamper, a failure, a forgetfulness, an inconclusive understanding of this legislation? It doesn't matter. And when, I remind you, two years ago, it was said that the Parliament will, in time, adopt all the laws in full modification, modernization of the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia, the electoral system, we are now in a situation that a few days before the deadline expires and thus we bring about changes to the electoral law, we are changing the Law on the State Election Commission and we are passing the Law on the list of voters. All in the last week or two before the deadline. Why have it waited so long? Which were the reasons why these technical changes in the law didn't go parallel... Changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're in favour of stabilising the electoral system, if it's the changes and the newspapers that were so loudly announced, then everything could have been done in time. I do not ask these questions and these dilemmas to be cleared because of these three articles and only for now and these changes, but because we would like to answer these dilemmas to the citizens and voters of the Republic of Croatia once and for all. No matter who was in power, who and when he called the election, who and when and how he interpreted the law. It doesn't matter who's in power today or who's gonna be in power tomorrow. It is precisely this value of the electoral system that in time all participants of the election are also voters know the rules of the game and to protect those rules from sudden changes and changes at the last minute. On how we vote tomorrow if there is a vote tomorrow, it depends on whether the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system wants to hold a session and unequivocally determine the last date of the amendments to the electoral laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83472	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83473	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must immediately say that the only relevant place to determine this question that you have discussed here is the Constitutional Court. We on the Committee can indeed take a position and we can take and give an opinion, but we can do anything, but the only relevant place that would give an answer whether something is within the deadline or not, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not, is the Constitutional Court, and here we will see whether we have a session or not. I will, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, say very briefly because this is a law that really affects itself significantly and only in this Article 32(1). The law, and I'll read the article now. In the current text of the Law, Article 32 reads and says: "Parliamentary political parties who had representatives in the Assembly on 31 December 2002 who participate in the elections have the right to compensation for the cost of election promotion in the one-year amount fixed for 2003 under the Law on Political Parties and Regulations adopted on that basis." So it is a valid provision of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Based on such a provision, the parties would be granted an election promotion fee in relation to the political reality and composition of the Council in 2003. This is no longer a political reality, it is no longer a reality, and therefore this Law amends that parliamentary political parties that had representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the day of its constitution, which participate in the elections, have the right to compensate for the cost of election promotion in the one-year amount fixed for the year in which elections are held in accordance with the law governing the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates. Therefore, parliamentary parties have two types of revenue from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. These are the first ones for regular funding, which are allocated by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system according to the number of representatives in the Assembly, and these are to say those specific funds, which are the means of compensation for the election promotion that are based again on the values established by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which means for regular financing. This kind of provision, which is now in force, I think it is no-technically very questionable because it comes out that, before each election, we would have to change the date if we kept this no-technical term to be related to a specific date, so that we are much more acceptable and from a nomotechnical point of view, it makes such a provision that regulates this issue in a permanent way so that in the future it would be, and of course, this provision is much more acceptable and related to a political reality that we have at the moment. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for this Law amending the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83474	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83475	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club expected that the government's promise would be fulfilled when it passed the Law on the financing of political parties and the main objection to the Law that it does not contain norms or any indirect norms that could be concluded that political parties and non-party candidates could behave at the time of the election campaign. When it was said, do not worry, it does not contain this Law on the financing of political parties, but we will also deal with this in a special Law on the financing of political campaigns. Here, now only the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament which otherwise contained provisions and contained provisions on the cost of election promotion and the right to compensation. With regard to a solution like this that is now listed here, the SDP club has no objection. However, the main observation remains. The main point is that in the Croatian normative, our laws have not resolved the basic issue, which is the issue of financing a political campaign. Who can be a donor? To what amount? Should public undertakings, i.e. undertakings in the predominantly or entirely state-owned, do so? Because ultimately, the entire Law on the financing of political parties and non-party candidates simply loses its meaning if this area is not regulated. This is the most important area of financing for the political party. And that is what is very important in the law-making programme in an active fight against corruption. That's how it was announced. After all, the political parties' entire life is the most exhaustive right before the elections. Since this has not been resolved, we can then expect that even during these elections, state-owned companies will continue to reward a particular political party extensively. Here, recently the Supreme Court, a few days ago, was announced the Supreme Court's word that HDZ has to pay large compensation to "Podravki" because the company's funds were illegally used to edit their premises. However, I say and return to the financing of a political campaign. What is it, I'm looking for, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, an explanation why the government has given up the announced campaign regulation and campaign financing? This law, which it does not have and which is very necessary to determine the amount that can be spent, is the amount that can be spent in the campaign. And in addition to what I have mentioned about the inability to donate and finance by public companies and state-owned enterprises, so here, Mr. Secretary of State, you should not only point out this to the public but also how certain political parties will behave on this issue. In addition, the public is also interested and we see the mood of citizens. For the first time, political parties are advocating the mistrust expressed by citizens. So, after the election campaign, after the election, to present to the public exactly the cost of the funds given in the campaign. It's all gone. Somehow, according to some rules of decency and courtesy, one should expect even without explicit legal norms from almost all political competitors. But that's not happening. After all, we could draw on a parallel from the very recently adopted Law on the financing of political parties, as it is said to be forbidden to do, that this also applies to campaigning during the campaign itself, election campaigns. However, the question arises, is that so? Thus, one polite behaviour and protection of state resources or funds located in, or the means at which public undertakings or companies in the bulk of the state itself are held. In view of what was happening, it is illusory to expect that it will not be so unless we have explicit bans. Therefore, that law and good intensities of the Law on the financing of political parties without or leaving such a space in the course of the campaign seems to be missed, in any case insufficient. So all those announcements that this law has in some way initiated and the public will fall into the water just in the election year and redefined behaviour and behaviour in the opposite way than the Law on political parties declares, because this area has not been defined and the Government has promised to do so with a special law. Here, these are the main comments of the SDP club. And the SDP club is also seeking the government's testimony to see what's going on in that area, that is, with this time ahead of us and the pre-election promotion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83476	Thank you. I'm sorry, what's the position of the SDP club? ... For a second there, I imagined it, so I probably overheard it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83477	You didn't hear anything. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83478	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83479	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! So from the discussion of the HDZ Club and the SDP club so far, it is evident that they are only interested in money and how and how it is collected and how much it will receive under this law. And you see us in the club HSP, above all, interested in the life of the constitutional provisions of the Croatian Constitution and in the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, because according to constitutional provisions, Croatia must allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to vote. So they can choose, have the right to be elected and elected in parliamentary elections. Unfortunately, thanks to the government that prevented the debate on our proposal, and that's where President Shakespeare helped in that part because he failed to carry out his commitment as president of the Parliament and asked the government for such an indication, this debate now only comes down to the question of money. And then it is no wonder why people are finding it harder and harder to live in Croatia because it is important to solve the problem of how to finance political parties and campaigns and not deal with the task that Croatian citizens have chosen us for. And I remind you on behalf of the club that each of us represents about 30,000 Croatian citizens. There are 152 MPs, and a special democracy means that we are not a machine or ambassadors of the government, but that we must act in accordance with the demands and views of those we represent here and on whose behalf we first need to vote. Now that we are also the most interested in the SDP and HDZ Club, that is money, this provision of Article 32 which, i.e. Article 2. The bill's proposal, the final bill of law, is essentially indeterminate and indeterminate. If it reads carefully. What does this notion of a parliamentary political party that had representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the level of constitution mean? Is this meant by the number in which they had when the Croatian Parliament was established, say, on December 22, 2003, or was this provision designed to, say, kick out Mr Branimir Glavas' party because they were not, in that time, acting as a political party? What does this mean, for example, by current conditional independent representatives who have not entered the Croatian Parliament as such? Did they enter either the political parties' lists or the minority list, but political parties, or did they enter some other lists? What does that mean? So I don't even know what you're here to determine just that there's going to be money. Now, but you haven't figured out how, in what way? It's those doubts now. So we're wasting time. Let's say last year we discussed the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors. So we discussed what's only gonna happen in 2009? While this is at stake, but what was current last year to cut short when we made our proposal, we didn't discuss this part at all. It means parliamentary elections. A little bit of a weird situation, and then it's all about going through an emergency procedure, and all these things could have been discussed on our proposal. That there was a debate about the proposal, let's say, the HNS that he gave bravely, and then he bravely pulled it back. Well, then, there could really be a solution for all those things that are contained in the current electoral law to be fixed. It is a good situation, it is good for Croatia to establish legal, legal, legal solutions regarding the choice of MPs. So the law has been since 1999. So it's good for democracy that solutions like that have proved relatively and good to stay, not to change the question every day how and how? Will it be a majority system? It's either going to be proportional or it's going to be a combination, this, that? Yet it is one constant of all modern democracies. But unfortunately, it wasn't done, and that's where we get the government's proposal from February 1st, and then it's being debated here deep in the late hours, and it's basically not even visible what you've solved? You have solved "the Deputy Minister" and is replaced by the words "Secretary of State". For that, it could have been done a long time ago. It's nothing. But I say this article in 32, paragraph 1, he's just about to raise doubts. What does that mean at a given moment? What does that mean, she was, say, Libra entered with the SDP's joint lists they had for the last parliamentary election. After that, Libra joined the HNS. What does that mean? Is the HNS going to get that money now? What amount? I mean, you haven't decided. Here's a colleague at the HSS, she's become self-sufficient. Right? Is that money going to get HSS? Or will she get it? But for the independent, it was always that part of the political party that did not mean parliamentary and independent lists. They are, in accordance with the applicable rules in terms of crossing or crossing the electoral threshold. But there's nothing specific about that. So in this article, he as such in 32 C.E. can cause various interpretations. All kinds of doubts. But neither is this amendment to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, yet it has yet to introduce a new disturbance in the application and implementation of this article. So we're dealing with this part of funding and we're not dealing with things that we need to work out. Are we still going to have 500 signatures as foreseen by the current law on independent lists, and we know for ourselves that all these independent lists that took part have not received 500 votes. They got about 200, 300 votes, and they were supposed to have 500 signatures. Is that the intention of making a lot of these independent lists? That then the whole part of the election campaign comes down to one circus. That you have 108 parties right now. So if they all come up plus independent lists, we might have a ballot that's going to have 10 pages. If some things are not done on the political scene, as all other modern democratic states have done. So, Mr. Secretary of State, let us know if you know what you thought or what the Government meant in Article 2 which is changing Article 32(1) because it's totally unclear what you were thinking? And how do you plan to apply that? How do you plan to apply it? That's the part that needs to be discussed, and then what's the intention of your or your government's core intensities to know which is now the fundamental intention, the intensity of the government? That's what we need to know, so now let's see if it's so written that we have the character of this almost authentic interpretation, or is it on the plenary session? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83480	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83481	Well, his colleague Kovacevic incorrectly claimed when he said that SDP and HDZ only meant money. I, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, was talking about transparency, the need for spending but also the supply of funds. That he should have dealt with this law. I don't know, it's hard for me to speak on behalf of HDZ, but I believe that's also the case with HDZ. Because otherwise, you HSP wouldn't mostly support all their projects if that's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83482	And another correction by the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83483	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am correcting the incorrect quote in which counterpart Kovacevic spoke about HDZ and SDP favouring this law only to secure their own money. Well, you see, it's not like that. That's not true at all. The SDP advocates' club was not talking about it at all, but was talking about the need to install additional provisions in the law that should ensure the public financing of political election campaigns and talked about issues that had to be resolved by law and not resolved. And in this respect, it is particularly important to point out that the SDP has not yet declared whether or not it will vote for this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83484	Well, that's me, yes, I asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83485	Yeah, yeah. Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83486	Yeah. I thought I heard it, but I guess I didn't. Yeah. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The club loses its word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. There isn't. He's losing his word. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83487	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am at all in doubt how to approach the debate on these laws that are subject to this point and the points that will follow the debate. Namely, what's this about? It's impossible to discuss these bill proposals without having to, I would ask my colleagues if you could just keep me out of the way, otherwise you can talk without having to consider some important facts that should be considered from the legal point of view first. For example, I would like to remind myself that we have passed the Law on the Election Commission, which, among other things, if I recall correctly, we have abolished the provisions of the 45th and 56th. Law on election of MPs. By speaking of these provisions in the 45th and 46th laws, they speak of quite some other questions than we are now talking about in this reasoning. 45th or 46th talk about the total number of MPs elected by voters, etc. 47th and so on. Therefore, this should be agreed first. The second thing to take care of is the fact that we have been given here in line with the proposal for a consolidated text of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and that the provisions we propose to amend and supplement do not comply with the provisions in the consolidated text, and that only after that it is only subsequently obtained the applicable text of the law with amendments and amendments to the law that has been agreed. The third thing that's important is to point out. It should be reminded of the political views of this House. It should be reminded of the political views of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, and also of the resolution body, and about the adoption of electoral legislation. And it was announced several times a year and a half, two days ago that we will pass a completely new electoral legislation that will open issues concerning the elections in the Croatian Parliament regarding the next elections to try and resolve. In this context, it is very interesting that we have not actually touched at all, and if we are now changing Article 32, we have not touched Article 28 at all, which should resolve the issue of electoral silence. We still have electoral silence 24 hours before the election is held and on election day, truth at will with last change until maintenance, until the election place is completed. But it's quite clear, completely obvious that 24 hours before the election is reflected, it actually means nothing and that they're eventually being broken, and there's nothing important you can do about it. And that's why the question should be resolved before that. The second issue that is very important is the question set out in Article 30. A law that speaks of the equality of all political parties in promotion. We then point out that these issues will now be resolved by the rules, and at the same time through political positions that have been discussed together with the OSCE, along with many others, with associations, GONG, etc. held views that this issue should be reduced primarily to give greater representation to parliamentary parties and that a small part of the representation in the electronic media should be given to those parties that are not parliamentary parties. Now, if this is to be achieved, and this can also be a political position to better inform citizens about the most significant problems and programmes offered by the largest parties or parliamentary parties, then this must be resolved by amending Article 30 of the amendment and supplementing Article 30 of the Law, it cannot remain equal, equality between all political parties and the sea but we cannot amend the rules. Therefore, it is also a matter that needs to be resolved before it enters that part. Fourthly, it is entirely inadmissible, it is inadmissible not to change the chapter on the cost of election promotion and the right to compensation, in particular Article 33, which, among other things, says it will publish indicative data on the funds invested in the election campaign. Namely, what I mean. It is also necessary to prepare this amendment and the addition of electoral legislation to the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament that will regulate the issue of campaign financing because we have not resolved this issue either by the Law on the financing of political parties or by the Law on DIP, even though we have prescribed by the DIP Law that relevant information concerning information for citizens on political parties, and it is certainly the financing of the election campaign by the State Election Commission. So a whole series of questions hangs here. In this regard, it is certain that these questions ahead should be considered. Of course, amending Article 32(1) on the financing of political parties, parliamentary political parties is nothing more than simply changing the year which is the basis for the financing account. And there's no big newspaper here, that we understand each other in terms of what it is so far, and in this respect, it's not a colleague who's previously spoken correctly when he says that we stand up for one, it's the same solution, it's just another accounting year, that's the current accounting year about all of it. Here is actually a far more important issue of these 4, 5 questions that I mentioned earlier and that should be resolved quite safely before they open or pass this law. And now there's one question we could say is that it's constitutional-legal. It's a question of how long the electoral system can actually change. You know, it should first be recalled that the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution was passed on 28 March 2001. Secondly, it should be recalled that the constitutional law has the title Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Third, it should be recalled that this amendment and the addition of the Constitution to which the Constitutional Law applies for its implementation is an amended provision relating to the establishment of an active and passive voting law. And fourthly, it should be recalled that in Article 4. The constitutional law states, I will be free to quote that there would be no doubt: "Laws that allow application, pardon, laws governing the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament will be passed, therefore an imperative norm no later than one year before reflecting the regular elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament.". The question arises whether this imperative norm applies to any election that will come or refer to election laws that should ensure the implementation of the amended and updated Constitution that is there... Of course, if you look at what is sigé or what is the content of this constitutional law, then the answer in itself is quite clear, and what is happening in the Croatian public is the fact that many actually lead themselves astray by interpreting this so that we should not choose, change electoral legislation before the law is desirable, before the elections are held. It would be good for the electoral legislation to definitely prescribe an indicative time when the elections are normally held and a time at which electoral rules must not be changed before the elections themselves are held, so that the political party's electoral body can actually prepare quality for the upcoming elections to take place. But when it comes to this provision, it has a kind of different meaning, in this respect we, who were then working on the Committee on the Constitution for the preparation of this law, should also be discussed differently, we have prepared a law to ensure the implementation of the amended Constitution, which we have done with these provisions. Of course, an interesting question arises in which the question is now being asked whether the Constitutional Court or anyone else should give the right to do so. No, I don't. This right should be given to our home working body, possibly proposing to the Croatian Parliament to take its stand through which interpretation is due to the constitutional legal standard regarding the constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court will not take a stand on this. Therefore, if there are doubts, and there seems to be doubts, then it might be good to conclude, if there is such a need, that the House commits the Committee on the Constitution, to consider this issue and, if necessary, propose a possible authentic interpretation that would be adopted by the Croatian Parliament in an appropriate constitutional manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83488	The authentic interpretation of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83489	No, no. Provisions of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83490	Constitutional law, authentic interpretation of the interpretation provision...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83491	Constitutional law is a law of constitutional character only. It's not the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83492	President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Try calling a board meeting tomorrow morning so... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It would be useful to have this legal objection that we have... About the hand, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83493	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This government has done a lot in reforming the modernisation of electoral legislation and everything about the elections. A lot. Not all of us, perhaps not all of what we thought, but we have proposed and discussed the change in the model of elections at local level, we have completed the elections for local members of the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, we have passed the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates who contain a number of provisions concerning election campaigns, and I have never said that a special law will be passed that will limit campaign funds. It is, this thesis was emerging, it was wanted by individual organisations that did not participate in the elections, do not participate in election processes, but take the right to make others behave. But the government never said that. The government proposed a law in first reading, in second reading. There are very restrictive provisions for the Government in particular regarding obtaining funds not only for, but for political parties from public companies, from companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, a restriction... and not to read all of the things we have discussed publicly and here twice and received support from the international community. They even congratulated me on good solutions. Of course, it's not enough for someone. Someone would like political parties to be aware of their cap but I think that the democratic multilateral system is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order and that the party will participate in the campaign with as much funds as they have and as much as they think it is reasonable to spend it that way. Otherwise, political parties experience sympathy and voter confidence during four years of work so that the campaign is not so much of a crucial importance. As far as the constitutional deadlines for the adoption of this law are concerned, I think we have discussed it in principle, although the vice president of the House did not quite say what he had suggested, but it is on the trail and my statements, consummated by the laws of many theorists, so we should not be determined. The question is what we've been doing, why now. Well, we've been working, so we're here all the time in the assembly. If anyone is present in the assembly, then it's me and my associates, just these autumn numerous legislative initiatives last week, three laws and a code of ethics. We were here this morning. So we've been working all the time, pushing, implementing reforms, and we didn't think this would open so many issues because it's a logical solution, because it's the solution to building up electoral legislation without touching the electoral system itself, because we think everything can be discussed, but for electoral legislation, it's best when it's stable and unchangeable and that elections are conducted multiple times in the same models and rules. Thank you to all those who will support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83494	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the SDSS Representatives' Club and the National Minority Representatives' Club. State Secretary, Amendment to the Club of Representatives, or the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83496	We won't accept it. It is not accepted because we will accept another amendment that regulates this issue differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83497	So the amendment is withdrawn. Second amendment of the National Minority Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83498	We accept the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities with a nomotechnical supplement. I will now read: "Parliamentary political parties, promoters of independent lists, independent representatives and representatives of national minorities who had representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the day of the end of his term of office or disbanding in the pre-election term." That would be Article 2. In the part of the amendments to which paragraph 2 is added, the word "Law" in a capital letter would be replaced by the wording of the article, so that it would read "Subject 1 of this article" rather than "this Law" and would accept the amendment in that form.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83499	National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83500	Thank you very much. We accept with the changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83501	Amendment accepted in modified form. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83502	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83503	It becomes an integral part of the law. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83504	We cannot accept it because we have just changed that item, the article that was accepted by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83505	Here you are, dear representative of Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83506	Mr. President, we felt that our amendment should complete the government's proposal so that both the independent and the MPs and MPs who were not present in the government's proposal were included in the new amendment, which was now included in the Assembly on the day of its constitution. Among them is a significant number of representatives of the National Minorities. At the same time, we support the content of the proposal, which lays down the day of the Assembly's constitution as a decisive criterion, preventing the possibility of rewarding political refugees and the abuse of the Institute of Independent Representatives. So we want to do two things with our amendment. These are to treat independent deputies as other MPs, but at the same time to prevent possible political corruption that is the institution of the subsequent award opening.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83507	Did you withdraw the amendment or are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83508	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83509	Thank you. Please vote. Let's get on with it. Who's in favour of this amendment? We can vote. The result? 12 for, 14 abstentions, 69 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. I'd like to point out that it's 77. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83510	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian party club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break because now you don't know what this part is going to be. We had a proposal from the government, we had amendments, and now Mr. Palaric has changed everything since there was a trade in the meantime, we need to see now who got there, who lost in that store and we are looking on behalf of the club that we have a cleanup now as to how this article will read. So the break on behalf of the 10-minute HSP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83511	Thank you. Ten minutes. Okay. We're going to continue the session. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83513	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I must say the following. We asked for a break because of the fact that this is really legally unacceptable. First we get a final proposal in the election year, which has 2 articles and then on Article 2, we get a number of amendments from which the following arises. That it was a major trade in the meantime, but trade was in the sense of securing the parliamentary majority for this 5th convocation of the Croatian Parliament. And I note that the issue of this adoption of the amendment is contrary to the Law on the financing of political parties that we brought in last year, where it is said to be more so-called. The defection will not be honored, but that this part belongs to political parties. But we allow this to be a possible solution in order to satisfy the parliamentary majority. But there's another problem. A new problem has arisen because it stands in diction, says the promoter of independent lists. So it's said that now one of the independent advocates who has gained independence in this way or in that way, and the moss is about independents who have become independent in the meantime, which is their right. So, for the next parliamentary elections, he has to submit a candidate list, and then he's going to get out of the state budget that amount of 365, what, thousands of kunas he's asking for. And they are meant to be honored by the situation that other independent lists can get money to participate in the elections if they cross the electoral threshold. Therefore, we only point out that it is a major trade which is both constitutionally questionable and questionable regarding the decisions of the Law on the financing of political parties. So much for consistency, so much for principle and let the Croatian people hear about the trade in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83514	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83515	He would correct counterpart Kovacevic's incorrect allegations of political trade. I think that's where the parliamentary majority made one big concession to the development of democracy and the free competition of independent party lists. She was also generous to Mr. Glavas' party. Therefore, I see that only this contribution to the development of this democracy and this form of funding will prevent money laundering during the campaign. I don't see anything wrong with it, and I don't think it was right to say it like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83516	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. My colleagues and colleagues, I reiterate that this law requires 77 votes to obtain the necessary majority. I'm voting on this bill. We can vote. Thank you. The result? With 86 votes for, 1 abstention and 13 against the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z. No. 625 Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and legislation conducted the debate. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83518	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that these two laws are being discussed at the same time in the same context because they didn't want us to talk about very similar topics. Just before we talked about the rules under which elections will be held to elect representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and this Law discusses the key body responsible for monitoring the legality of the implementation of elections and bodies that will play the most prominent role with regard to the technical implementation of all future elections. We opted for the creation of a professional state election commission. The Croatian Parliament passed the law on the issue. The Electoral and Appointing Committee has proposed candidates to one vice-president and 2 members on the proposal of the parliamentary majority and one vice-president and 2 members on a proposal for parliamentary opposition. And these candidates are acceptable to the government and we expect them to be elected to the State Election Commission. However, as we hold that the State Election Commission must be a combination of knowledge, professionalism and experience, and that it must be drawn up in a way that is a body of general trust, we propose that this reform should go gradually. That the dominant majority of the members of the State Election Commission are professionals, and for now, for the next parliamentary elections, the president of the State Election Commission should be President of the Supreme Court in office. If the number of vice-presidents of the State Election Commission increased from 2 to 4 in such a way as to be 2 professionals who would be permanently employed and to receive salaries under the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials, the remaining 2 vice-presidents would be from the Supreme Court judges elected by the General Session of the Supreme Court on the proposal of the President of the Court, and hence the President of the State Election Commission. It's a crucial change in this law. This change has been consistently implemented through all legal provisions because it defines the status and resolution of those members of the Committee chosen by the Croatian Parliament, and otherwise those who are in position or elected by the General Session of the Supreme Court. We think it is a gradual professionalisation of the election bodies, but at this point it is a body that will have full confidence in all those participating in the election process, but also Croatian voters because they know that the authority of the President of the Supreme Court, the authority and experience of the two Supreme Court judges who have so far participated in the elections will guarantee the legality and honesty of the elections in the Republic of Croatia. And that it will repeat once again that Croatia is a democratic country, that the power elected in the elections has the legality and legitimacy and that we fall under this process into European democratic countries. I ask the MPs to support the adoption of this law so that the State Election Commission is formed as soon as possible and to join the preparations for the implementation of parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83519	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The State Secretary, explaining these amendments to the Law on the State Election Commission, used, among other things, the argument that the principle of the DIP should be people to whom the citizens of this country, voters, will trust. Does this mean that when we passed the Law with the solutions that were entered in it we knew in advance that the elected president of the DIP could be a person to whom citizens, voters of the Republic of Croatia would not trust? Or did we think we had a finished man for that function so he didn't want to run? So now because he or they didn't want to run, we're changing the law. When we passed the Law both in the context of the Government and in the arguments that we all used, we said, finally one step towards forming the State Election Commission as a permanent body with an 8-year term that will be able from a professional point of view, public influence and reputation that will give one security to voters in the regularity and legality of the electoral process. However, whether these amendments to the Law are to blame by the Government or perhaps the Central Office of State Administration. The formal culprit for this failure that the Law is not respected is the Committee for Selection, the appointment of the Croatian Parliament. Because after a public call to which the candidates for the president of the DIP were gathered and when the candidate who had passed all the conditions and met all the conditions, he conditioned his candidacy with some other changes, the Election and Appointing Committee had to publish a new public invitation to elect the president of the DIP. Instead of a new public call, the parliamentary committee was waiting for the government's moves. So the first move was announced to change the Law on Courts by which one of the judges who came to the DIP office in court would wait eight years. When this failed, the second reason or excuse was that the Law on Salaries did not establish salaries for the president and members of the DIP. When we settle that, instead of another public call, it comes with a bill amending the law explaining that it is necessary to put 3 Supreme Court judges in the composition of the State Election Commission in order for voters to trust the DIP. The reason for the amendment of the Law is the sloppyness, indetermination and indetermination of the Committee on Selection and Apology and the chairmanship of that Committee and no one else. But we are in the election year and we must have the State Election Commission. That is why we will support this proposed change, but only for these elections, and the first change that we will make in the new assembly of Parliament as part of the government will change, remove these temporary solutions and the State Election Commission will establish a system of public call, a professional and permanent body for monitoring and implementing the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83521	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83522	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I must say that I have very often pointed out as a very significant advance in the development of all the institutions of our society what we have passed the Law on the State Election Commission as a permanent and professional body and wherever I was and wherever I was at, I have highlighted as one great achievement and as a major shift in the introduction of order on this democratic political scene. But here we have a bill that kind of modifies what we've brought, we're giving up one concept, but not entirely, but in one smaller part, because we all know what happened. We had a public call for the President of the State Election Commission, there seemed to me four or five candidates, of which only one met the conditions for the President of the State Election Commission, the others did not meet the conditions and we did not actually find a man who would be the head of the State Election Commission. It's just that it's a fact, it's a reality, the elections have come close to us, and the elections are really a serious thing and I don't think we have the right to experiment and we don't have the right to question the way these elections are going to be held. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal of this Law for the President of the Supreme Court to be the President of the State Election Commission and to extend the State Election Commission with two other vice-presidents who will delegate the General Session of the Supreme Court. This will significantly strengthen the composition of the State Election Commission, and as far as this is concerned, I think we can be indifferent that these elections, such as the elections that have been in the best order so far, and there have never been significant remarks by the international community or the domestic political scene. So here's what we consider a solution that we can say is a transitional character when we get the conditions to actually go with that State Election Commission that we imagined it in that first and valid version of the law. However, here is the situation, this is also our political reality and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83523	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83524	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State. In my opinion, this legal initiative as I am experiencing it only proves that the Permanent State Election Commission is an institution that is invented, something that Croatia does not need, or that can be done in the present way. However, here is what we just heard from Mr. Bošnjakovic to literally paraphrasise, I cannot quote failed to find a man who would meet those criteria. Well, it's something terrible, it's something amazing, it's something unimaginable. It may not have been possible to find a man who could be manipulated in the elections, but that independent people who would accept one of the most privileged jobs in the Republic of Croatia cannot be found in Croatia, so it is simply unimaginable to me. I am convinced that the next day thousands and thousands of people would immediately accept a job like this. I was talking when we had first and second reading, I have here phonograms about the State Election Commission that people who are going to enter that body like they're going to get a week on Lott. So this thesis that you can't reach a man who I don't know could act as president of the State Election Commission at the very least is something amazing. Secondly, the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia was passed with a big pomp, the Law was passed in April 2006. There has not been 8 or 9 months and the law changes by column, more specifically giving up its key provisions. This is in some way a witness cannot say in the dilentism of the promoter, but it simply testifies that the proposings of these legal solutions underestimate the logic of this House's judgment. It would also be good to see what the MPs said a year ago, not a year ago, eight or nine months ago. It is far more interesting, say, to say Mr Palaric's statement that he represented both today and then the government's position. All the arguments of us who said that such a single body was needlessly falling into the water. Nothing could have gone through at that point. The law passed, it didn't live, and it's been eight or nine months and it's already changed. I personally believe that this is why someone should answer. I have a phonogram in front of me when he defended the Bill on the State Election Commission. This is how Mr. Palaric Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen MPs say the government is preparing and implementing the reform of the electoral system and one of the reform measures and establishing the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia as a professional professional body, a body of general trust. We are now learning that it is not possible to find a man in Croatia who would treat that job for 15 or 16 thousand kuna. One president, two members would be elected on a parliamentary majority proposal, and the other vice-president and two other members on the parliamentary opposition proposal, of course at the time when the commission is elected, etc. I'm not saying everything else. Mr. Bošnjakovic here says here a moment ago we can't find people, he literally says: "The proposal of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, as we know from the multi-party who has been in the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s, has already been held by many elections, all these elections have been closely monitored, we have had monitoring and NGOs, international institutions." And not to quote everything here that's been said. The Venice Commission, which regulates a legal situation that was not covered by the legal proposal, is mentioned here. After that, Mr. Pavlic, Damir Cain, tells us that here is the final proposal for a law on the State Election Commission. They've got all the states. We see that Croatia will have it. However, to be so free and to notice that whoever stabs a pardon gets a job in the State Election Commission, the one free to say, after that, that he has won a week at the lottery. I'm not going to say that they're imaginary jobs, but the fact is that de facto is done every criminal year, etc. Here, so I spoke seven, eight months ago in a second reading. And now the question arises, gentlemen, who, by the conduct of the central authorities, suffers damage. He suffers from the damage of citizens, he suffers from the damage of the state. Who's losing? He loses who in this House is telling the truth. Who's profiting? Profits impertinence politically clear, political nonsense. Unfortunately, reason doesn't seem to pass for this speaker, that he's powerless. He's in the minority at least in this House. And as a result, the public has become less and less trusted in Croatian politics without which neither Croatian society nor any other community in the world can, whether we are neighbouring Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Germany and the like. Now, maybe one of us could be likein' over, I don't know, most of us's behavior, 'cause this is a big gaff of the majority. But the kid won't benefit from it again, someone else will profit. It means the end of what to say. Someone should be called up for this kind of legal negligence and, as far as the law itself is concerned, accepted by law, but I repeat again, someone should suffer the consequences of it. It is better to come to reason after 8.9 months than never since one unnecessary damage was avoided, unnecessary expenditure for the state of Croatia. But once again what to say when precisely through this Law on the State Election Commission is manifesting the best way for politics to simply come before an argument. One word for this law should be voted on but those who have proposed all this so far should be strongly condemned.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83525	Okay. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83526	Although my colleague quoted me and read the phonogram so he took away a good part of my correction but at one point he said that thousands of people would appear to me if I quote correctly, because it's an attractive and good job. But the problem is that this is not so, which is not true because we had a public call and indeed thousands of people didn't answer because it's really one very complex, one very specific place where there's a great responsibility, where there's a great authority, a great knowledge. And unfortunately, there are not many thousands of people on public call.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83527	On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will not support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that this is the diametal contrary concept of the one we were on when we were making an unfulfilled 8, 9 months ago, the basic law which is in force on the State Election Commission. And as has already been said here, it seems to me that my colleague Cain talked about it, that Mr. Secretary of State with a big pomp and even spoke rightly, about this proposal and about this urgent need in which Croatia is located because of the frequent elections, that Croatia must finally have one permanent body that will deal with the elections and which will not only have this task to carry out the elections but also a whole series of very serious tasks that are taxed in the current law. Therefore, the State Election Commission as a permanent body, it does not only deal with the implementation of the elections but as stated in the law, it will ensure better and more appropriate implementation of the elections at all levels, particularly in the light of the bill's proposal and the opening speech when the State Secretary specifically stressed that frequent elections are particularly at the level of local self-government units, especially in the light of the proposal that future mayors, municipal chiefs and mayors are elected in direct elections, which undoubtedly leads to opportunities and frequent extraordinary elections in certain local areas. And between all this on this force of business and on the seriousness of the work that is really and thus, which will have the State Election Commission in the opening words of the State Secretary was particularly stressed that by creating a professional body, this, another goal is also very important, which is that we will release judges mostly of the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court of Justice obligations to conduct the elections, and I believe that we will strengthen the effectiveness of the Supreme Court and of all those who have participated in the work of the State Election Commission, and for that period they could not carry out the duties, the tasks for which they have been elected. That was something the Supreme Court judges were looking for. Then the law came, after the law had changed, and the Law on the salaries of government officials and it was seen that it was indeed a win with the seven that fellow Cain had painted it. And then the Supreme Court judges changed their minds. And then they asked to change the Law of Courts so that this place would be reserved when they returned with five functions of eight years to wait for them to place again in the Supreme Court, and during eight years to have the files waiting, I suppose, or that their colleagues diligently who do not have such appointments do these things nicely. That's not correct. This is not correct from anyone, let alone the representatives of the judicial authority. But the representatives of the judicial authority obviously agreed with the Government which then, with such a proposal, was a non-serious proposal, and many said here that the Croatian Parliament is being underestimated as if we didn't know what we had brought here, which we were not talking to, but convinced by the government from which motives are being approached by the formation of this State Election Commission so that all of this would fall into the water now. Or now it's explained that there are judges and they won't be so engaged there, they'll just occasionally be there... is that seriousness? Is this the seriousness of being president of the State Election Commission? That he'll be here for a while, a little bit won't. Therefore, higher expectations and higher burdens of jobs covered by the law and given to the power of the State Election Commission are expected from an ordinary member than from the president. Well, please don't. It's the judge's place to judge. But in our country, judges wouldn't judge. Politicians would often judge. So we'd all be dealing with someone else's activity. Because they always think a better salary is a better reward somewhere else. I don't think the government should have gone into this kind of deal. That this isn't right. That this isn't good. After all, no one differs in their expertise. No one is two in the experience they have gained at the end of the years by doing this job and let us be completely honest and in confidence despite the fact that the public has been lately, in recent years, a dozen and more very critical in the face of the judiciary and the behavioural and branch authorities, but that I still believe the most especially in election processes precisely judges. But we left that concept. It was explained. We thanked the judges, satisfied their request to move them away from this heavy duty, and now someone's changed their mind. It is not something I say that serves no branch of government, and we should not support such behavior. Then it is very correct for us to go back to that state and that here it was abolished by the existing Law on the State Election Commission and that we went back to that model that preceded the adoption of that law. Well, then, when we're ready for something like this, then we should either stay on that trail again, establish the State Election Commission as completely professional. This is how we got one combination of some semi-professional, professional members. These members are forbidden. So those who are a mere member, he can't do anything. Those who have greater functions in this State Election Commission are less required of them. That doesn't make sense. Whatever doesn't make sense isn't right. And it will lead us to great difficulty. What's the basic motive? The fee they're about to determine, they have no right to pay such a large salary but a fee that will be determined by the government. And the government will surely be betrayed. I'm sure that's more of a fee than the ones they used to receive regularly when they did this job. And I'm asking an open question here what happened with the executive? What happened to the judicial authority? Fate's power has asked for it to be removed from them. We all supported it and even reluctantly because we trusted them that they knew best. But we knew that development had to go forward. And we supported the government's argument. Then someone remembered from them that it was good to deal with it. But that's when eight years go by again, is it uncertain if we're going to be in that position? Let's go back to that constant judging place where nobody's asking us anything about this whole period. With such ones, with such an argument, with such motives, at the end of the day, which should be dissipated cannot be done well either. It cannot be well done work primarily according to colleagues at the Supreme Court who will not have the honour to come here to the election commission and receive additional compensation, and will have to do the work of their colleagues during which they are due. And then the question arises is it more the State Election Commission over and over again? After all, as much as this is and in accordance with this law, this law is in accordance with the basic Law on Courts where the trial is a fundamental function of the judge. Every now and then, jobs like this can be tolerated. And they're welcome somewhere. But since the State Election Commission is a permanent body, it must be there all the time. We therefore have an oral explanation that this will not mean derogating the existing law. Or that we will tolerate the unlawful conduct of an individual vice president or president. I think it's with a bill like this, no matter who came out to whom it violates the reputation of President of the Supreme Court. It violates the reputation of the Supreme Court and then has nothing to do with that fundamental concept of the Law on the State Election Commission. So on the very institution of the State Election Commission as one permanent body. For these principled reasons, the SDP Club will not be to pass such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83529	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83530	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A valid Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia means we adopted a session on 31 March 2006 and under the applicable law only a tender has been opened or an invitation has been made to run for president and vice president or members of the Election Commission. So nothing, the State Election Commission, nothing else under this law has been made, and now we're getting changes and additions to that law. We know for ourselves what the consequence of all this is. Mr. Ranko Marijan, the Supreme Court judge has conditioned the amendment of the Law on Regular Courts so that after the term of office of the President, we have even had amendments and additions to the Law on Regular Courts. It was far smarter that a new tender was launched, for example for the president himself when he could not agree to such conditions, we remember in other similar cases. And now what do we get by this law? We get to increase primarily the number of members of the National Election Commission. We're getting two new vice presidents. So according to the current law, the State Election Commission is: the president, two vice presidents and four members. And now it changes in that part that the President of the State Election Commission will be the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. But we also get that, the new two vice-presidents who, elected by the General Court of the Republic of Croatia, will come from the order of the judges of that court and on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. I don't know what it's about now, this is kind of obvious, some kind of condition again, some condition. We know that the scope of this matter under the Law of the State Election Commission has not changed in anything, there has been no increase in some scope of business, but these are only changes regarding these human beings, above all for the president. And now we get two more new vice presidents out of the order they choose, who are elected at the Supreme Court session of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know why they are, why we need those two new vice presidents now. I think it would be quite enough that there were a total of 7 as per the current law and that it should not have been increased by two new vice presidents, but rather taken this variant as temporary to be the President of the Supreme Court of the State Election Commission, and then tried to follow the legal decisions afterwards. Because we ourselves know that in these elections and the President of the Supreme Court and the former and the current one spoke, we have been burdened with this work, we have jobs, as are judges who have been at the level of election committees by election units. And now we're going back to that, and that was one of the reasons why we went to this professionalization. So here again, it's not clear to me again that there's some condition for those two new vice presidents. Who conditioned it, and why did he condition it? Give us that. What's the increase for two new vice presidents now? There's no increased range of jobs. And this solution was to be put into transitional and final terms in the sense that the election to these duties would be handled by the President of the Supreme Court and would be elegantly released. Not that you have not even started to apply the law but have written amendments and additions that have 8 articles, and while you have been playing for Article 8, we have agreed on a colleague who will submit an amendment because in Article 7 you forgot to make an amendment. It would turn out that the vice presidents and members of the commission are elected by the Croatian Parliament. And in Article 8, you said, except for those elected by the General Court. So that's where you've already been wronging yourself, and you've simply been able to complete the duties of the President of the State Election Commission until the President is elected under the provisions of this law. Well, give me a minute. The things legal theory and practice know, which were easy to solve that way you could simply solve it and there would be no debate at all. We would all agree here ok, there is a problem until a new competition is opened for the President of the State Election Commission until then until it is done, and we do not have to set a deadline until it is completed, let the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia behave and solve everything simply. This is how you're totally complicated. And a good idea that was an initial one, which everyone praised, is back to half the solution and with that variant to throw in two more new vice presidents, and the scope of business is not increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83531	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, for a while, I don't want much. First of all, this proposal for an amendment to the Law on the State Election Commission is a combination of socialism and democracy. Here's why. It is known that in socialism, electoral commissions have appointed congregations, and that is the rule of the President of the Court. That was the rule. And this is exactly what we're going back to. So the Parliament appoints the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time appoints him to the National Election Commission as a folk independent body of politics. And I'm sure the appointment will come back to this House. Who decides? Well, most of them. That's one problem with this law. That's one problem with this law. And another problem, could it occur in the protection of some of the electoral rights or crimes in the election process, in an election procedure to end some of the proceedings at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. If that's also theoretically excluded, yes. But there is protection, judicial protection of electoral rights in various ways both in the Constitutional Court and in regular courts. If he doesn't come to the Supreme Court, they're known to be extraordinary drugs in the Supreme Court. If we've absorbed this problem, and I don't think we can absorb it, we can close our eyes, but we can't solve it there's another problem. The election commission, or members of the Electoral Commission, have different legitimacy. The president and two members gain legitimacy in the election in the Croatian Parliament from the representative legislature, the highest body in the Republic of Croatia, and that's fine. But colleagues and colleagues, the other two vice presidents do not elect the Croatian Parliament. It is chosen by the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We have two types of members in the Electoral State Commission. Two types of members in the Electoral State Commission. Their responsibility is different, then, which chooses and decides whether to keep them. This combination of the last socialist self-government and this democratic system simply doesn't drink water. The excuse that there are no frames so that this solution just doesn't stand. The conditions for becoming a member or president of the electoral state election commission are not such that people would not report, and neither is the position so unattractive that they would not want to be worse. This is a compromise with the staff. Third, the Electoral State Commission really has a role to play in solving things in real political time. Most importantly, they object to the State Election Commission. When it comes to electoral violations, voting rights. But other countries know that an independent Electoral State Commission solves, and by our law far more jobs and tasks than election committees, controls, etc. And why didn't we give him the part-round to control the election campaign in terms of funding all parties' political campaigns? We don't have anyone put on our souls anyway, on our soul, so to speak neither in the circle nor in the jurisdiction. Taking into account all of this, and calling for countries that allegedly have solutions like this, and GONG claims that there is no such thing that can be checked, it is really irresponsible not to the Croatian Parliament but to the citizens. Because citizens can just check it out today with one click of the mouse. So I'd like to pray that we really respect the principle of the Constitution that the Parliament appoints everything, chooses everything, even if it's a composition like this. Or it's simply the logic of the electoral right to start with a decision, etc. Parliament, and the Election State Commission as a whole corresponds to the Parliament rather than two vice-presidents to the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is indeed a combination that does not suffer our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83533	Thank you. You say democracy and socialism rule out, if this is a mix of socialism and democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83534	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83535	This would be a little democratic socialism, but it wouldn't rule out democracy and socialism would seem questionable to exclude democracy and socialism, if it were two... antidotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83536	I think, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, that's settled in your book. I read that they're really shutting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83537	Only theoretically. Dear Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83538	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I must say, I must vote against this law. So it's not even about position and opposition, it's about principle issues. First, in time, Parliament President, Prime Minister, Prime Minister and all others unanimously supported the need to adopt the State Election Commission as a professional and permanent body. Among other things, the president of the parliament felt that the DIP should be a permanent, independent and professional body, a key aspect of the bill must be. It should then be recalled that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Hrvatin, spoke about the advantages of the State Election Commission compared to the current ad hoc body, stressing among others that regardless of the importance of managing the election of the current situation in which judges make the membership of the State Election Commission ad hoc based on all levels unsustainable. The burden of non-judicial responsibilities within the DIP endangers the work of efficiency, the deadlines of judges who are already struggling with the inflow of new cases. He does not see the need for DIP members to be judges but instead could be lawyers or people from other professions, a provision according to which members of the DIP are judges also contrary to the official policies of the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that says judges should be free of those duties relating to non-judgmental activities, according to the Supreme Court president. Then, among other things, we advocated the whole, part, a large part of the DIP's competence, among other things, to take account of the list of voters, to establish in registers, donors of political parties, and all that follows. I again President of the Supreme Court Mr. Hrvatin reminded of how in the Law on the list of voters in the past restricting the work of the DIP because it did not provide the DIP tool to solve a particular situation, the functioning of the DIP should not... better efforts are already clearly defined standards. [[You don't understand.]] The discussions said a lot at this important meeting, and in conclusion, of course, it stressed that a professional State Election Commission was to be given all those responsibilities which were to be carried out and that was 13/12/2005, which was organised by the meeting, or a round table organised at the request of the OSCE, together with the Government, the Prime Minister, or the President of the Parliament. So what do we get now? We get a mix of compositions, we get a body that is half-assembled by elected representatives of the State Election Commission, half of which are members of the judicial office, pardon the judicial authorities, and that is affecting even the division of functions, i.e. the division of power. Third thing that happens which is quite clear, we get something that is completely unacceptable. That members of the same body shall appoint two different representatives or entities who make two different authorities. The Assembly as a legislative body and general session of the Supreme Court as part of a judicial authority that carries out part of the judicial authority within the Supreme Court. Third, there's something going on that's amazing... Yes, that she, among other things, interprets and assumes a general session of the Supreme Court, according to the law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Among other things, it should be recalled that it gives and takes a position in the implementation of the law on judicial practice. Now what is amazing, the President and Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Court will have a salary consisting of the judge's salary, with the compensation of the Supreme Court president and the compensation that the Government will determine for them, and vice-presidents appointed by the Assembly, if they will have a debt coefficient. I'm asking why two vice presidents of the same body would have different salaries and the same receipts. So they're not equal under the law. Let's add something else very interesting. Whether a situation that might also be questionable may also arise from the aspect of the protection of the constitutionality of legality. A number of issues related to the protection of the electoral right will be raised before or through the State Election Commission or through it and by the competent judicial authorities, including at the end of the elections and by the Constitutional Court. What is it, when a general session of the Supreme Court takes some views on such issues among other things and how will then be carried out by the Presidents, i.e. the Administrative Court, in some cases, if those positions commit them. So the whole set of circumstances can appear in this respect and quite clearly that this, forgive me for saying, I don't like to use such words, but I mean tampering, they don't make sense. It just doesn't make sense. We need to determine whether we want to have a professional State Election Commission because they have matured now for these circumstances and conditions. If we want it to be passed, a special law has to be passed, it must be elected by the Parliament and in such a situation if it chooses the Parliament then we simply have to get those professionals who will do it and who will do a whole series of jobs. Today, on the Committee on the Constitution, we have raised a very nice constitutional issue, among other things on the Electoral Commission, which will be appointed by the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, i.e. local self-government of municipalities of our municipalities and cities, which should confirm the validity of the electoral lists by the state body. And now, instead of the state body performing legality, control and control of legality, actually an autonomous representative body, it later appears in such a function rather than in civil oversight. And this should be carried out by the State Election Commission. If we want to have a professional State Election Commission, then it should be the one that confirms the voter lists, which the state administration is carrying out, and that would ensure... administrative procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, all others who are dissatisfied could further lead and have the possibility of protecting against administrative courts related to judicial protection and there would be no such problems as we now have. That's why I'm personally pushing to define ourselves as a clean model. If not, then let's keep this solution that we're not satisfied with. But the mixed model will be even worse than this solution we have now. Because at least now we have ex-legations under the law that the President of the Supreme Court is the President of the Election Commission and not that the General Session will elect him. How come now? The President of the Supreme Court imagine not to pass the election at a general session. Or vice presidents, they function, but vice presidents. How do we do that now? What are we going to do? We're going to take one criminal, the other from the civil justice department or something, and it's actually about administrative procedures that are... for that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think things are good, that we should simply leave this solution, stay with the professional State Election Commission, the State Election Commission of the Authority that we have given to carry out, open such an opportunity, and this bill should be withdrawn from the procedure by me. It's not good and it's not good for the individual, so if you want to, and small group interests change the law. I remind myself, this clearly reads the situation to suit people who were actually supposed to come to the State Election Commission from the judicial authority so that they could stay in the State Election Commission without changing their duties, or their jobs. Of course, we all remember that one of the Supreme Court judges should have been president of the State Election Commission and when he was told that he couldn't be professional and both, that he couldn't rest so long, and then we're going to change the law. What are we doing now? Instead of staying at a clean model we suddenly make a mixed concept that makes no sense and has no reason... Which should justify everything we do and what, after all, we promised ourselves bound to acquire... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Creating conditions for elections to be not only an act of holding elections but also an election process from enrolling voter lists to calling elections, campaigning, holding elections themselves, publishing the results of elections and reporting to the Croatian Parliament, so that if you want to control the electoral, exercise of electoral right or violation of the electoral right that it should be professionalised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then that makes sense. If we don't, then it doesn't make any sense to leave the concept by which this election commission, as a volunteer committee, should be changed because all the objections we have had so far remain. The judges are still burdened with cases, and it is still not good to burden the judges with non-judgmental duties, it is still not good to open up the possibility that judges may eventually come into some conflict of interest. It is still not good that judges can come into conflict with political interests, political parties, election participants, etc., etc. And then how are we going to ban political parties from commenting on the work of judges if judges can comment on their behavior and even ducks, deciding on a whole series of things but not as judges but as representatives of the State Election Commission in their position? I think you should take that back. He doesn't have to back down, but I won't be able to vote for this bill, because he's the opposite of everything we wanted to do with the State Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83539	The dialectic practice also conditionaled on the dialectic opinion so that it was the case which was discussed that case conditioned that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83540	It's a dialectic of unity opposite, but she too, Mr. President, must be logical in order to be enforceable. Otherwise, it's not dialectic in itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83541	It's logical, why is it illogical? It's just one mixed system introduced...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83542	But not this way. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83543	Neither one of you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83544	Comrade Leko, it's not Marxism. It's Hegel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83545	And you're wrong, colleague Arlovic, it's Heraklit. Heraklit. Final Review State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83546	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We're staying with the bill of this law. We believe that in the direction of professionalisation, by introducing six professionals, we have delivered to a considerable extent the judges and that we have achieved two goals. It's one thing to have people, we're going to have people, they're proposed, politically balanced by the authorities, from an opposition that will actively participate in the work and actually the commission decides most. They're most of them. Professionals are most of them. And in that part, to that end, we will relieve the judges, the obligations, there will be only three, and that, let's face it, in the moments when the elections are discussed, they will certainly not be permanently engaged in the State Election Commission. Auxiliary technical affairs, what already represents standards, will be done by professionals, and of course when it is held at sessions will be attended by all. But it was also the case for the draft law that it might not be good for all members to be elected by the Parliament on a proposal from the Parliament. There were ideas that other bodies would be involved. We even discussed it on that round table. Here we now have a body composed, balancedly composed of part of the Supreme Court's Supreme Authority in a small part and politically balanced professionals who will be elected by this Croatian Parliament. Our goal is clear. We want a body of general trust. We want an impartial body, that no one can impute and our candidates work like this or those we have proposed have one view of the world and of the electoral dispute, and the candidates proposed by the other option have a different choice to make. We will now get a body that will have two vice presidents, one president from the highest court of the Republic of Croatia and it will work together with professionals to conduct the next parliamentary elections, will have experience, will strengthen the professional service and prepare for full professionalisation with wider powers than we are now giving them. I will be happy one moment when the State Election Commission is so strengthened and this professional service is able to take care of voters' lists, when it is able to conduct citizens' education on the importance of elections and on the very technology of choice and participation in elections and when it is able to carry out everything that most countries can do. Until then, we do not want to take any chances, we want the general trust that I have highlighted very much today, and I think that this is the idea of a guideline that elections in the Republic of Croatia will be conducted in a legitimate way, that the authorities will be legitimate and legal after the next elections. Everyone around this law will commit to their conscience, possibly to the political views of the party to which it belongs, but we think that this is a good solution, a fair solution, and we are convinced that this proposal will receive the necessary majority and that the State Election Commission will be formed immediately after the entry into force of this Act and will approach parliamentary elections in time to the unchanged electoral model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83547	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we would still have to discuss the Law on Lists of Voters and then vote at 15 o'clock on all discussed laws. Then resume the session tomorrow at 9:30 only with a debate on the Law on the List of Voters and Votes. First, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Drazen Bosnjakovic. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, so at least 77 MPs. Secretary of State, please be clear about the amendments of MP Dražena Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83549	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83550	It becomes an integral part of the law. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83551	We accept with gratitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-08-0.u83552	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 88 votes for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Secondly, I am giving, voting, opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the deadline within which electoral legislation is to be adopted. The board was in session at 12:00 today. I am therefore voting on the proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament, and in connection with the resolution of the doubts within which electoral legislation is to be adopted. You have that opinion in front of you. Please, let's get on with it. So we can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against, the committee's opinion was accepted.
