ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e59	Representatives of Ingebjørg Amanda Godskesen, Åse Michaelsen, Kåre Simensen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Knut Storberget, Anette Trettebergstien, Per Rune Henriksen, Ruth Grung, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Margunn Ebbesen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Mazyar Keshvari, Marit Nybakk, Siri A. Meling, Bjørn Lødemel, Kristian Norheim, Regina Alexandrova, Jorodd Asphjell, Sivert Bjørnstad, Sonja Mandt and Irene Johansen, who have been on leave, have once again taken up seats. The former temporary deputy representative of the state of Troms, Sigmund Steinnes, has again taken up his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e138	The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e141	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Geir S. Toskedal, Ola Elvestuen, Jorod Asphjell and myself on the amendment of public law [[except urban council notes and discussion documents for urban council conferences and preparatory urban councils in municipalities/communities with parliamentary governance]]
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e146	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 13 February 2015: ‘Temporary Board of the Ministry of Knowledge In the State Council of 13 February 2015, it was decided that the Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker should manage the Ministry of Knowledge in addition to the responsibilities it currently has in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, in the time when the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaken will liquidate parental leave.’; The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The complaint has since been notified that the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will terminate parental leave for the periods from 6 April to 23 April and from 22 June to 10 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e169	On the basis of the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, the Labour and Social Committee has requested a debate on the impact of the default reform. This is the first time that the Storting has made use of this provision that was adopted in the spring of 2013. The objective of this provision is that the Scientific Committees may take up a debate in the Stortinget on topical or urgent matters, even outside the cases dealt with by the Committees. The President further notes that point (d) of the third paragraph of Paragraph 51 of the Storting Rules of Procedure contains a provision on speaking time for such debates, by giving one representative of each party access to an unlimited number of posts. These speakers have been notified to the President in advance. Members of the government participating in the debate will also have access to an unlimited number of posts. The President would otherwise add up to a free debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e178	First, a few words on the background to today's debate, which thus relates to the effects of the new misreform, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. Let me stress, just as well as last time, that this is not meant to be a rematch on the reform itself, which is essentially a right reform, but a desire to have the effects of the reform fully elucidated, to the extent that it is possible as soon as possible after it was implemented. We are pleased that a unanimous Labour and Social Committee, on the initiative of the Workers' Party, decided to ask that the matter be put on the agenda of the Stortinge. The reason we took this initiative was that during the autumn of 2014 and in the early months of 2015, the Workers' Party received a lot of enquiries from concerned disability pensioners, now disqualified. I'm sure the other party groups have also received that, the department as well, I think. Before 1 January, many of the requests involved an experience of a lack of or incomprehensible information about what the reform would mean for the individual – in crowns and ears, understandable enough. We all need an overview of our personal economy more than a few months or weeks in advance, especially when the fixed costs are high and the income is relatively low, when we support children, when we have debt to serve. We responded to the enquiries to the best of our ability and always concluded that the gross benefit should be increased, so that we were left with about the same thing as before, but we did not have the prerequisites to answer questions about the individual's specific income and tax conditions, naturally enough. In October last year we sent a written question to the Council of State about what kind of information the individual had received. The Council of State's response shows that this is complicated and that it becomes further complicated when information at individual level has to be provided by two bodies, Nav and the tax haven, which are not fully familiar with each other's legislation, and in some cases also lacked up-to-date information on income and civil status for some. Eventually, the enquiries became more concrete, especially after people had started receiving personal calculations, and from the first payment of new disability benefits, we have got many figures that show that some people experience some of them being significantly less paid out than before, even though gross benefits have increased. Let me take some random examples from people who have approved that their income data can be used: female, early 50s, social security as a young person, married to an active person, debt slightly above NOK 600 000, DKK 18 000 less paid in 2015 compared to 2014. Included in the amount is that the tax rate has added to expected income by 2.7 pst. to take account of possible changes in income during the year. male, disability pensioner since 2001 with a population and occupational pension, before marriage. Disadvantages are taxed on tabular basis, occupational retirement provision by percentage of income. He has asked for a new tax card and got it, but he still gets paid over NOK 10 000 less than in 2014. A concerned mother tells of her 22-year-old son, with Asperger's syndrome. He has a certificate of competence as a cook and works full day from 6 p.m. 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 13.30 in the catering of an ASVO company five days a week. He wants most of all a regular job, but needs a lot of guidance and organization. He got increased disability benefit from 1 January 2015, but still got 400 kroner less paid in social security. The job in ASVO is NOK 22 per hour and gives before tax NOK 3 300. The tax is increased to 35 pst. And he gets 800 kroner less paid than before. The auxiliary payment he had of NOK 1150 ceased when he left home in November 2014. He's got a $1 million loan. NOK plus overheads. The total reduction in net payments is, overall, NOK 2 200 per month, and he does not want to be entitled to housing support under the applicable rules. In preparation for this debate, the Council of State has transmitted factual material in a letter to the Committee, which is estimated to be about 60 pst., 187 520 persons, will receive an increase in net income after the conversion. Of course we haven't heard anything from them. But that the majority wins does not help the 40 pst, or 127 000 former disability pensioners, who get a decrease in net income after the conversion. The three-year transitional arrangement adopted in the 2015 budget will help some, some of them. 30000, which is temporarily reduced in net income than they would otherwise have. But what happens next? Are we talking here about people who are able to adapt and their economy in three years, or are we talking about people who just have to see that the economy is gradually deteriorating? In addition, the Council of State letter states that 83 000 losses are less than NOK 6000 and will therefore not be covered by the transitional arrangement, while 14 000 people lose more than NOK 6000 without being subject to the transitional arrangement. The question is whether this is okay, look at the Storting promise that all former disability pensioners would come out as before. ‘Landscape’ is a term of knitted work, from the point of view of the decision maker. How far the knit can stretch in real life is another and more individual question. For a full-time job, 6000 kroner may not be around the world – 500 kroner a month. For those who have little, 6000 kroner is relatively seen more, and for some, a lot of money. The Labour Party would like the Committee to hold a hearing prior to today's debate. The majority in the committee did not want that, but the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV arranged their own hearing on 17 March, where the Christian People's Party also met in addition to us who stood as organizers. 26 participants from 15 stakeholder organisations made feedback. These were quite heavy hearings. It was the Pensioner's Association, Uera's Landsorganisation, Employers' Association for Growth and Recruitment Companies, Unio, NHO, Young People with Disabilities, FFO, LO Stat, Norway's Handicap Federation, Parat, Delta, Negotia, Norway's Blind Federation, Trade Union and the National Team for Public Retirementists – in other words, many with knowledge of where the shoe prints. Feedback was many and showed why different parts of the population have different challenges and how demanding it is to take universal action. The feedback also showed that this is not only about the translation of disability benefit into disability benefit to take account of new tax rules. If it had been that simple, we would not have had this debate today. So this is about: taxes on additional income, including taxes on occupational retirement provision, which are regarded as income. persons with liabilities – if the transitional period of three years is sufficient. persons with income from VTA. Here Stortinget has decided that the bonus pay at VTA should not lead to a curtailment. But have we thought enough about the effects after tax – do we like the example I mentioned above? indirect effects of the default reform on additional State benefits, such as housing aid, child allowances, etc., calculated on the basis of gross income. In the case of housing aid, the Stortinget has asked the government to come back to the revised national budget with proposals to prevent an increase in gross performance leading to a reduction or a decline in housing aid. We in the Workers' Party have asked questions about this to the municipal minister and received a good answer. All have been dealt with for the time being – and it is possible that the proposition that the Council of State delivered at the beginning of the meeting was part of the follow-up, since new housing support rules were in force. However, a complicating factor is that the Storting has adopted changes to the housing support rules, regardless of the under-reform. It is difficult for individuals to distinguish between what is caused by the unforeseeable reform and what is caused by other changes. Another complicating factor is those who have additional services from the municipality or receive municipal services with self-payment, such as kindergarten, SFO, home care, home care, any municipal housing support, etc., which is also based on gross income. Then there is the other experienced cut that has neither to do with taxes nor unforeseeable reform, but with other changes, such as: cut in car arrangements or lack of adjustment of rates for ground and ancillary services. Some may also have received incorrect tax cards, as one of these examples showed. Some have compared the net payment in December 2014 with the net payment in January 2015 without knowing that the rules on tax-free payments are different for economically active and pensioners – so that they come out as before, when they see the payments overall for the whole year. From Birger Myhr in Pension Expert AS, we have received a calculation example for a person with NOK 230 000 in gross pension in 2014 that appears to lose $12,000 in the year after the conversion, but that when the tax settlement for both 2015 and 2016 has been made comes out completely equal due to the repayment of the tax – something in 2015 and more in 2016. It is understandable that the individual does not have such a detailed overview that they can see it now. And to say that with my old aunt, I don't have such good advice that I can use the state as a forced savings bank. In addition, a point made by the Pensioners’ Association states that at the time of transition, some were also transferred to retirement without having received sufficient information on new rules for when to do so. What conclusions can we draw from all of this? The starting point of the working party is that there are some assumptions and some unforeseen effects. Some losers, some losers, without cutting cheap political points at it. What stands out is that Stortinget promised no one would lose. We are therefore excited about the contribution to the Council of State and what conclusions he has drawn. There is broad political agreement that disability reform is an important and correct reform, the main element of which is that disability benefits should not be an early retirement pension for persons of working age but a replacement for lost income due to sickness, injury or lye. It also makes sense that the social security is taxed as income. An important part of the reform was in line with this amendment of a rigid income regulation as well. One-year waiting time has been lifted. In that period, many people fell out of work after already being away from work for a long time. The limit of what you can earn in addition has changed in a way that improves your ability to work more than before. You don't have to set a new level of inadequacy. Social security is offset against its own income in such a way that it always pays off to work. There's a maximum limit of 70 pst. curtailment for those with the lowest social security. When the reform was adopted, there were some dissenting proposals from the opposition then, but none of them rocked by the very intention of the reform. The disability benefit is the main source of income for some 300000 people, who, because of sickness, injury or suffering, are totally or partly unable to support themselves on their own income. ‘Unable’ is a relative concept. For some it is absolute, for others it depends on the extent to which it is possible to combine disability benefits with income from own employment, as this varies with residence, education, labour market, etc. It may also vary according to how the authorities deal with the individual with good or poor follow-up, including measures to make employers see it as interesting to employ people with good skills but with good and bad days, who are not always as predictable. A common conclusion is that all the disabled are ill. Many people are not sick at all, but have an injury or a hearing that makes them need extra and individually adapted facilities in a possible workplace. We have a number of measures, such as organisation guarantees, wage subsidies, etc., that can be tailored to the individual. Questions can be asked about the extent to which these measures are used as intended, in individually organised plans and in contact with the employers concerned, but there is a different debate from the one we have here today. Today's debate is about what always happens when major changes are made to the social security system. Many of those that apply become uncertain. There will be a need for transitional arrangements for those already in the old scheme. As the overview in the Council's letter showed, we are talking about a significant number of people, who despite Storting's insurance experience that they are getting worse. The size has been quite clear. The current Council of State was quite clear, and I quote from the debate at that time: ‘Today’s disability pensioners shall retain what they receive today. They will be subject to new tax rules, but will be increased in such a way that they will receive the same income after tax as they do today. Today's disability pensioners will therefore be affected to a small extent by the reform, in addition to getting a simpler and better system for trying to work.' Not all questions were resolved by the adoption of the malpractice reform. In the years from 2012 to 2015, many regulatory changes would take place. The size has dealt with two-fold adjustments during this period, in addition to the transitional arrangements for those with debt, which were dealt with in the 2015 budget. The question is whether this has been enough to fulfill the Storting's promise. At the end of the day, the Labour Party is behind the bad reform, but we take them seriously. In an own-initiative debate like this, we cannot make proposals, but we are asking the Council of State to contribute to highlighting the results of the reform and to clarify whether there are unintended effects that we should do something about. We would like to contribute to the material we have received by e-mail and in consultation. The first option to do so is the revision of the national budget. We have no phase, but there is a clear need to take a proper review of both the intentional and unintended consequences of the malpractice reform, including assessing possible measures to eliminate the unintended effects. A simple but complicated question is whether we have increased gross benefits enough to take account of all the effects of both state benefits and support schemes, occupational retirement provision and any municipal benefits and excesses. I welcome the debate and stress that we have no final phase, but we are excited about what the other parties have concluded with so far, and whether it is possible to have a broader debate with concrete measures about this in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e265	The disability pension was replaced by a new disability benefit on 1 January of this year. After a thorough process, the reform was presented to the Red-Green Government in 2011. It received the agreement of a unanimous staging, and Jens Stoltenberg said at the time that this was one of the most important documents the red-green government had actually presented. The majority wanted the new disability benefit, together with a reinforced line of work, to help more people with reduced and variable working capacity participate in the labour market. It also wanted to look at the use of labour market measures, the practice of legislation in the social welfare systems and the role of the doctor and the Nav in cases of miscarriage. The starting point for welfare policy is a sustainable society in which those who are able to do so participate in the labour market and contribute to the community, while ensuring decent support for those who are too ill to work. It is important to point out that those who are too sick to work experience having a good safety net with a secure security of income, and they should not have a bad conscience for it. I've met a lot of people with severe disabilities who get stressed when there's too much focus on work. They feel even more inferior. There are many disadvantaged people with disabilities who have enough of everyday challenges in getting up, dressing, eating and participating in social activities when shape permits. It's important to also have this with us when we talk about disability benefits and the residual working capacity of the disabled. Nevertheless, many with health problems and disabilities have fluctuating disease progressions over shorter or longer periods. In the preliminary work and comments on the disability benefit case, it was a matter of ensuring that the disability benefit had to be arranged in such a way that those who were able to do so could participate in the working life when they were allowed to work. One of the main objectives of the adaptations was to make it easier to move between work and disability. In the case of major reforms, it is necessary to have time to prepare for the reform before it can be implemented. The majority adopted the reform in 2011 but agreed not to introduce it before 1 January 2015. That is why the government of Solberg has been given the job of implementing and implementing the great reform of the red-green government. The process is being carried out in line with the decision made by a unanimous increase in 2011, so that we can call this false reform a genuine political joint venture. When major changes occur in society, such as major reorganisations and the introduction of reforms that affect everyday life for people, some people may experience that what they have taken for granted and that have been safe and predictable, suddenly changes. It can create uncertainty and uncertainty, and we've got some examples of that. It is important to take seriously the reactions and feedback that come to the wake of such processes and to assist with information, advice and guidance. In some cases, the underlying assumptions may also have produced effects that were not intended. The background to today’s debate in Stortinget is that the Committee has received a number of contacts from people who feel that they have had a worse economic situation after the implementation of the disability reform. It was a prerequisite in 2011 that the introduction of new disability benefits should not lead to a significant reduction in the overall performance of the individual. New workers should be guaranteed a disability at about the same level – or perhaps a little better. The members of the Labour and Social Committee are concerned that the reform must be carried out in line with agreed intentions. If any effects of the reform are identified that were not aware of at the time of the adoption of the reform, the Committee is committed to informing it and possibly meeting it with measures. I think it is important to draw up the documents and read what was the idea and the background for the false reform. In the Prop settings. 130 L for 2010–2011 it says: ‘The proposals are a necessary adaptation to the pension reform of the benefits of public security. The disability reform is also part of the renewal of the social security system for people with health problems: sick pay, redundancy pay and disability pension.’ Value creation and well-being depend on how well we manage to use labour resources. A gradual ageing of the population means that the sustainability of the well-being schemes co-financed depends on our success in getting more people to work. Work for all is a cross-political, overall objective, and for individuals, work is a source of income, economic security, self-respect and self-realization. At the same time, high employment contributes to the prevention of poverty, the reduction of social disparities and the security of the economic base of the welfare country. The biggest wish was that the reform should contribute to two equivalent objectives: a good income insurance scheme for those who could not work more easily to combine disability benefits with employee income for those who can work during periods; In the context of the reform, the new disability benefits are now taxed as wages. For this reason, gross payments from public funds have been increased to compensate for the tax burden. Nav is now registered as the main employer, and the job beside the social security is recorded as income from the secondary employer. The early reform implies that, as with other employees, disabled persons receive tax-free month in June and half tax in December. That means that the tax is to be distributed over ten and a half months, against eleven months earlier. It can explain that some unemployees have experienced less net social security payments after the conversion in January. If you look at the whole year as a whole, most of today's underprivileged will come about equal or better as a result of the conversion to new tax rules. As mentioned earlier, the Stortinget was clear in the treatment of the default reform that the change should not lead to a significant reduction in the overall performance of the individual. It was emphasised that new equipment should be secured to a disservice of about the same level or better. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2015 and the implementation of the default reform, the Government of Solberg adopted a three-year compensation scheme to facilitate the transition to new disability benefits and wage taxation for the underprivileged with loans and large interest expenditure. Disadvantaged persons with high benefits and large loans are less likely to benefit from the new tax-measurement rules. In the past up to 55 pst. of interest on debt is deducted in the calculation of taxes, against 27 pst. with ordinary tax rules. The proposal for a compensation scheme received unanimous support in Stortinget. A transitional arrangement has also been established to prevent existing applicants from falling out of the housing support scheme as a result of the default reform. The change in disability benefit will not affect most housing beneficiaries until 1 July 2016 when the tax settlement for 2015 is taken into account. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is working on a proposal to treat housing beneficiaries with disability benefit after 1 July 2016. The process of reform has come to an end. According to an overview received by the Committee from the Ministry, approximately 188 000 people receive an increase in net income after the conversion. ==References== According to estimates, 127 000 will have a slight decrease in net income, and of these around 12 000. Some 127 000 disabled people who want to lose a little on the reform will. 83,000 losses less than NOK 6000 per year. ==References== 30000 will be so reduced in net income that they will be entitled to the transitional tax deduction scheme, i.e.: that they would lose more than NOK 6000 per year without the transitional arrangements. In addition, approx. 14,000 persons not covered by the transitional scheme lose more than NOK 6000 per year and approximately EUR 14,000 per year. half of these persons have an occupational pension or other disability pension which is not derived from social security. This was something you were aware of, and as explained in section 4.6.2. of Prop. 1 LS for 2012–2013, promoted by the Stoltenberg Government. The members of the Committee have received a number of enquiries from persons who consider that they have come out badly. It will be important to keep up with developments. As the benefit has been raised to compensate for the tax charge, there may also be consequences for payment schemes on which gross wages and salaries are taken into account. The state housing aid scheme is one, and it is already under way to look at whether to adjust there. In addition, municipalities that base gross income on payments to kindergartens, SFOs and various home services should also be encouraged to adjust income limits in accordance with changes in benefits. The Joint Organisation of Disabled People and the Disability Association have made representations on this subject. In the context of the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, the following note was agreed: ‘The majority refers to the fact that, in order to take account of unforeseen developments related to the unforeseeable reform as well as changes in the level of compensation, the government is asked to follow closely the consequences and, where appropriate, to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner in order to ensure that the arrangements for the defaulting regime and the implementation of the transitional rules are implemented.’ I trust the government will do just that. Among other things, the government just adopted a compensation scheme because it was seen that someone would get worse out: those who had high loans and interest rates. I feel that the Council of State Eriksson follows closely the implementation and is open to look at the consequences of the major reform of the Workers' Party. It is far too early to evaluate, the reform is going on, but it will be exciting to see if we succeed in our political commonwealth: the reform of the Stoltenberg government – adopted by a unanimous increase – introduced by the government of Solberg. Our common objective is that disability benefits should be perceived as a safe and decent income to live off for those who cannot work, and that it should be easier to combine disability benefits with employee income for those who can work during periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e316	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e319	I heard with great interest the post from the Right Representative, Bente Stein Mathisen. I'm a little surprised that a caregiver is so strong that it's the government of Stoltenberg's great reform that the government of Solberg is now implementing, because it was actually a unanimous expansion that adopted the reform. The reason for the reform was initiated during the Bondevik II administration, so it is probably a fairly common project. My question is that when the representative says that one of course is prepared to look at any effects that one was not aware of, and to the extent that also refers to remarks in the budget around it, I would like to repeat what I concluded my speech with: Does the representative Stein Mathisen think it is a good idea that we should have a broad review of this in connection with the revised national budget, perhaps also proposals for adjustments?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e324	I think it is early yet to make a large evaluation of such a major reform; I think it is important to keep up with progress. As the representative himself said in his contribution, there are many things that go on tax, tax calculation and how it actually comes out net, because we have a tax settlement that applies to 2015 and 2016, and you don't know completely – there are so many individual things that lie behind what the individual will be left with. It is important that we follow further and that we take an evaluation when a reasonable time has passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e332	This is an important debate that affects many. We talk about the livelihood of many people, and then it's important that we have a thorough and good debate and follow the situation closely. I think it's okay sometimes to lift your eyes a little bit. Because the overall goal must be for people to be able to support themselves, and society must facilitate it. At the same time, it is important to always have a safety net that traps those outside, those who cannot support themselves – whether due to unemployment, illness or other causes. It is important that we have a safety net that is not like a net, but a safety net that helps you up to your feet as far as possible. I also want to make it quite clear that no one should be ashamed of being unfinished, for no one knows when a disease affects a human being, and the few want to be disabled. Throughout my life, I've met a lot of people who would do anything to get healthy and start working again. But we must not deny that unfortunately there are always some people who want to trick the system. Then it is important that we have good and strict control regimes that ensure that the benefits actually go to those who want them. It's also important, and it's also been government policy. The more we can get out of those who cheat, the less stigmatizing it is for those who really need the benefits. And they all, most of them have a real need for performance. I think it's okay to go a little bit to the intentions behind the Stoltenberg reform – or the frail reform, as it's also called. The intentions behind the reform are and were good. The fact that man should be able to combine work and social security in an easier way is for the benefit of society, and not least for the benefit of the individual. The fact that they are doing things in a simpler and less bureaucratic way now is important, because I don't think that someone is either 100 pst. fresh or 100 pst. disease. Often it varies, and the degree of disease may also vary from day to day, from month to month and from year to year. We can take an example with a person suffering from Revmatism. In many cases, the person may be fresher in the summer when it is hot, then become worse in the winter when it is cold. The good intentions of the Stoltenberg reform made it a unanimous decision to adopt the reform, and it was also decided that the reform should start from 1 January 2015. What was a shame was that the then Stoltenberg government chose not to go out with the necessary information to them it was. That is why the reform came surprisingly to many people, and it created a lot of uncertainty. The reason is that you can only speculate about it, but initially it has little purpose to speculate about it, because the goal must be to look forward to it. What is gratifying about the reform is that the intention to make it easier to combine work and social security seems to have been achieved, but also that the great majority comes out equal, as today, or better than today. Nevertheless, the Committee has received many requests from people who are now experiencing a decline in net payments after the reform enters into force. There are several reasons for this. We know that some people unfortunately got the wrong tax card issued. There are things that it can be cleaned up into. Some of the reasons are about deducting interest on debt and now doing it the same for everyone. Regardless of whether you have a labour income or a disability benefit, how much you can deduct from debt interest is going to be equal. And that's important, because we also see that a challenge has been that there, for example. a married couple has a common debt, one of which is unfinished and the other of which works, the debt interest rate has often been placed on the unincorporated person, in order to receive a higher deduction. But now it's going to be equal to everybody. But you also have to look at the total income over a year. Another important thing about equalising income and disability is that, in line with people with incomes, you get zero tax rates in June and half tax rates in December. This means that there are many miscarriages that come out better in the year as a whole, but in some months it may seem that they are getting worse. The fact that someone was going to lose on the Stoltenberg reform warned, among other things. The Progress Party on when Stortinget dealt with it in 2011. We assumed – and saw – that there were some gaps in the reform. Unfortunately, our warnings were not heard, and they were rejected by the red-green government. When the Progress Party-Right government joined, it went through this thoroughly. It turned out that the Progress Party was right in some of the warnings we came with. That is also why the government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, introduced the transitional regime for three years, which would help those who lost more than NOK 6000. It was an important decision. Councillor Robert Eriksson deserves all manner of credit for initiating that transitional arrangement. This is a transitional arrangement that was never proposed by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party – or the Centre Party. If they were still in government, it is uncertain whether we would get this transitional arrangement. The goal of people being able to use their residual working capacity is important, and it shares all the batches. But it helps very little in party speeches about the importance of people being able to use their residual ability, if they don't get a job. It is not always as easy to get a job, at least not if you have a disease that makes the work capacity fluctuate a lot. That's why it's also important that we get a flexible working life. Then we are very pleased with the work environment law, which we treated before Easter, and which makes it easier for people to have more flexibility in everyday life, which could also help people who have different illnesses to work more in the periods they are healthy, in exchange for more freedom in the periods they are ill. It will be easier for people who may have been unemployed for several years, who now get a job, to try out the job without worrying that they will lose the disability they have received. This is about holistic thinking. There have been several good posts so far today. But I have to say I'm reacting a little to the Workers' Party's Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party, who are trying to make a lot of politics out of a unanimous reform – a lot of party politics. Among other things, that the majority of the Committee did not wish to have a hearing on this matter. It is simply because Storting's Rules of Procedure are crystal clear. Paragraph 27, during committee hearings, states: ‘Only matters which are pending within the Committee and where the rapporteur of the case has been chosen may be subject to consultation.’ So the committee had no opportunity to consult on this matter, and then I find it a pity that the Workers' Party is trying to make party politics out of it. It is important to look further, and I am glad that the government and the Council of State are so clear that we are following developments, and will also follow developments in the future. I think, like the High Representative Bente Stein Mathiesen, that it is important that the reform should be put in place, so that we see the real consequences of the reform and do nothing rash. It is also important that the municipalities here, which have their own income-based benefits, also adjust the income limits they have for the respective municipal benefits – which have been covered by several – in order to capture the change in the underprivileged reform, where the aim and starting point was that people should be released more or less as much as they are today. But, as you know, gross payments were increased, and the tax was higher, so you don't have any more net, and then it's important that the municipalities also make those adjustments. The intention of the Stoltenberg reform is basically good. It has some unfortunate results for some, and then I am pleased that the government introduced the transitional regime and that the government is following the situation closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e372	I want to start from something the representative Wiborg said, that the Workers' Party is trying to make a lot of party policy on this matter. I mean, we're trying the exact opposite, and I also said that in my post. We're not going to knock party-political coins on anything in this case, but we have a sincere desire to get sides of the bad reform that we may not have had a full overview of. That also applies to the three-year transitional arrangement, which was adopted by a unanimous increase in the budgetary procedure for 2015. Wiborg himself said that it was not possible to say whether a similar proposal would come from the Stoltenberg administration if it had been re-elected, and I fully agree with the representative of Wiborg in that. However, the 2015 budget also asked the Labour Party to consider a more permanent solution for those with debt, because three years is a short time to change. Does the representative Wiborg agree that we should consider a more permanent regime for those involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e380	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Lise Christoffersen that it is important to highlight all aspects of the reform. The Council of States has also been exemplaryly open and helpful to the Committee, when the Committee has had questions about the reform and the interim impact of the reform. I am very pleased that we have put in place the transitional arrangements. After all, the transitional arrangements should be precisely a transitional arrangement, which should ensure that the transition to the new system is smoother than it would have been with the starting point of the Workers' Party. As I said, we follow the situation and are also prepared to make adjustments if it turns out there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e392	We in the Christian People's Party are, as you know, not represented in the Committee, but this is such an important matter that we naturally want to take part in this important debate that the Committee has initiated. There are parts of the subject area that were also up for assessment in the treatment of the State budget. First of all, I feel no need to recapitulate what was the background to the reform itself. It is well explained by previous speakers. What I think we need to reflect on in common is how such an important reform has manifestly been distorted in terms of information to those affected by it. We must, all of us, take over. We don't get away from the fact that here are a lot of people who don't have reserves of an economic nature, where you can wait for some sort of settlement or a message once and then clear on some savings of capital. Here, many people have a greater need than most of us have, in order to have predictability of the income you have from month to month. I have to say that when two important state agencies – and in addition, we probably also get with some municipalities in terms of some benefits based on gross income, gradually – when this system hopefully has to work together to provide predictability of what the individual is left with, we have to learn from it. I believe that it is also important for the Council of States to take other types of reforms. Yes, the tax bill operates with taxes, and Nav operates with social security payments, but that's the final sum of the individual that's crucial. I believe – and I know – that correct information at an early enough time could avert many concerns from very many of those who have been affected by this reform and who are. That's point one. Point 2: When the Stortinget adopted a new misadventure reform, it was a prerequisite that everyone should come out as before. It is this concept of ‘about’ that is discretionary and that we have to discuss together also about has given us some conclusions that make us outside the framework we think is reasonable that the individual himself has to take into account. At that time, I am at the same time as an overall finance committee included in the budget for this year, namely that the government would return to the Stortinget ‘in an appropriate manner if the arrangements for the defaulting regime and the implementation of the transitional rules were to do so’. This is, of course, a government mission: to assess the impact of the reform adopted, including the transitional rules proposed in the budget by Eriksson, which was reinforced by the majority when we adopted the 2015 budget, by including more people who had some high interest rates – that they should be subject to a transitional period of three years. From the Christian People's Party's side – if I just take that part – I don't want to say that this is a locked time. But neither can it be that if you are in a two-income household where one has a disability pension and the other has ordinary income, you can assume that you can transfer all the debt interest to the person who has a disability pension and thus together get very well out. We must have reasonableness in this system, because a social security system also depends entirely on the legitimacy of the population. But here I think it is possible to look at solutions, even in the longer term. So I know that many people have received – we have – type examples. Lise Christoffersen mentioned a part that seems to have come out badly. Of course, we should read about that and listen to it with the greatest seriousness. What matters to me is to hear from the Council of State – because we can get many type examples, but at least for my and the Christian People's Party it's important to know – if we have a solid enough mapping to see which type cases apply to more than one case. Is there some – to call it that – unintended consequences that concern a larger group, which we should address? I see, at least from what I've heard before here today, that there's a broad majority for that. But of course, we're dependent on the department. And then I'm not talking about an evaluation – I'm talking about a mapping, so it's not going to go winter and spring, because then the joke is a little gone. Clearly we must have an evaluation, but it concerns the whole of the change in systems. But we also need a survey that takes into account possible type cases that are systematic, and for which we might also need to intervene and look at changes. It has been mentioned that many seem to have been hit, but not when they see that they receive tax for only ten and a half months. It's like when the interest rate goes down, you don't have to have as much discount on interest as before. It's also something that the tax rate to some degree takes into account. If you pay less in interest, the interest deduction will also go down. It's not just gross income that plays a role, it's also what you're left with in sum when, for example. a mortgage is payable. I am perfectly aware that many people do not seem to have their occupational pension adjusted. Bente Stein Mathisen insisted that this was mentioned in the big message that was being processed in his time. However, I would say that at least it's interesting – I don't know if the Council of State has any chance of giving answers now – whether there are any statements that are so dramatic that they should lead to us looking at them too. What I and the Christian People's Party on our side are most concerned about, are these individual cases that we and others have been informed about, and which may represent a larger group, where a completely general disability pension without quite special changes – as I have now mentioned, and as others have mentioned – leads to such a large impact on net retirement and net social benefits. It is important for us to see if there are quite common disability pensioners and unqualified people who have come out much worse, and what we should possibly do in this way. Finally, I fully agree with those who have mentioned that part of the measures taken in the municipalities is based on a gross pension. And if it's not adjusted for this in terms of e.g. self-payment in the municipalities, it goes without saying that then the net, when the month is due to be settled, will decrease further. I am aware that the State Council of Sanner has said that one will look at the state housing support system, but I think we also need to look together at some guidelines on how the municipalities will handle this very thing, because it will mean a lot to the individual in everyday life. Let's not forget what more people have been up to. These are not high incomes; there are many who, with relatively small changes, also notice it quite as concrete in everyday life. We should not be locked together into an adopted reform when we see unintended effects. Once the Storting has come to an end, I think our task is to look at changes that may have a negative impact on the effects we do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e426	This is the first own-initiative debate following Storting's new Rules of Procedure. The centre party made the proposal for this in the last growing-up period, and it is very gratifying that we got this debate on the labour and social committee. I'm glad. Through this we can get the matter well explained. We can be ombudsmen and ombudsmen, and we can thank the Labour Party for taking the initiative for the debate and for following it up by a unanimous committee. I would like to stress that disability is something that affects everyone, and I would also like to stress what the representative of Erlend Wiborg said, that one should not be ashamed of his disability. I'll stop there, Wiborg. One shall not be ashamed of his incapacity. All allocation of disability benefits has been carefully assessed, and I am sure that it will be done in a proper way. The disability pension from the population is now called disability benefit – from 1 January 2015. The disability benefit from social security and disability benefits from other schemes will be taxed in the same way as employee income. This has a significant impact on everyone. Taxes on employee income represent the following changes in the disability benefits of the population: In the case of social security contributions, the rate was 5.1 pst. under the rules applicable in 2014. Now it's 8.2 pst. – so an increase of 3.1 percentage points. There is an increase in taxes that is said to mean most in dollars for those who have the highest taxable income. The minimum deduction was in 2014 at 27 p.m. It's increased to 43 pst. by the new rules. It has great consequences. And the minimum deduction, in terms of the maximum amount, is increased from 70,400 to 89,050. In addition, the right to tax limitation and special deductions for disability have lapsed. We are therefore in a situation where a major and very complex reform has been carried out, and its consequences are inconceivable. I think everyone should have respect for that, and all the previous posts have also laid that foundation. Then it is essential to have humility for what will be the consequences for all the different income combinations and life situations that people with partial or complete disability have. The new disability benefit was adopted by Stortinget on a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg II. There was a debate here in the Chamber on 12 December 2011. There were no demonstrations outside Stortinget at the time – there was a broad uprising – but everyone was aware that there were difficult balances. It was agreed that a person should have safe arrangements with a high degree of compensation for those who are disabled. The centre party is behind the decisions that resulted in the conversion of the disability pension into a new disability benefit from the new year 2015, and the conversion was, among other things, due to: ensure a simpler exchange between disability benefit and employer income for those who are able to do so. And I would like to make a few comments on that – those that have occasion to do so. Very many disabled people have no opportunity to combine disability benefits with working income, and that is something that must be at the bottom and that one must respect 100 pst. As a result of this change, those who could have a certain employer's income would find themselves in a situation where taxes on disability and employee income were equalised. And as mentioned earlier, pension taxes are lower than income taxes. And in the context of the Stortingen’s decision in the autumn of 2012 on the taxation of default benefits, compensatory transitional rules were granted. New disability benefit equals 66 pst. of previous income, which is slightly higher than the average benefits already received. It's independent of marital status. For those who previously received a disability pension, a conversion was made at New Year’s. Int. 80 L for 2011-2012, from the Labour and Social Committee, which was issued on 6 December 2011, the following is stated on page 7 of the General Commentary of the Government Parties to the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party: ‘The majority emphasise that the proposal ensures a new level of disability at the level of today’s rules or better. The new disability benefit, together with a reinforced line of work, will contribute to the participation of more people with reduced and variable working skills in the labour market.» Furthermore, on page 24, under the heading New Rules of Conduct – Transitional Rules: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, emphasises that those converted from the old scheme are to be compensated for increased taxes by increasing their gross performance in order to maintain almost the same net performance.’ Furthermore, a joint committee says on page 13: ‘Those who already receive the present disability pension at the time of the implementation of new disability benefits receive the disability pension converted into a new disability benefit, with a view to ensuring that the post-tax benefit is the same as before.’ I want to link two comments to this. One is that one says ‘representing levels of current rules or better’ or ‘contains nearly the same net performance’. So since it's a conversion, it's not about everybody getting the same thing. It's going to be a change. Without a change, it would not have been a reform. Furthermore, in the setting, the Working Party, the Centre Party and SV say that one should have an enhanced workline. It's something that it's essential for the Center Party to bring with it all the time, because the whole point of the reform was just that combination for the people who are in that situation of life. Is that possible today? This is increasingly difficult to combine, as the labour market situation becomes more difficult, and it becomes particularly difficult for those in such a situation that they have only partial working capacity. I would encourage the Council of State to answer that question. In the past, we have had a discussion – in connection with the changes in the Working Environment Act and the message section that was there – about the need to put in place strong measures to make it interesting for employers to hire people with partial working skills, to which I come back. As far as the debt situation is concerned, it has always been known that with the highest interest rates they would get worse out of the conversion as a result of the lapse of the tax delimitation rule. A transitional arrangement was therefore put in place, for which the government is to have all the credit and for which there was broad disintegration here. This was a transitional arrangement for people with a disability of two-thirds or more and who received a disability pension from popular security in 2014 and who had a post-tax income decrease of over NOK 6000. The transitional arrangement shall be of three years for the calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Deductions in income up to NOK 100000 in interest expenditure are the starting point. The first year receives a maximum deduction of up to DKK 100000 in interest expenses. It works so that when one has the ordinary interest deduction, which in the case of NOK 100000 gives a maximum of NOK 27000 in reduced tax, one in the transitional arrangement may receive a further reduction in the tax of NOK 27000 if one has NOK 100000 in interest costs. This is stepped down, so that from 2018 on you will receive only an ordinary deduction of 27 pst. in taxable income. It is clear that this represents a lot of money, not least for those who have had to borrow to obtain housing. Therefore, for the beneficiaries of housing aid, the Husbank has established a transitional arrangement to prevent existing applicants from falling out of the housing aid scheme as a result of the default reform. This transitional arrangement shall prevent disabled persons from falling out of the housing aid scheme from January 2015 to June 2016. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation shall submit a proposal to the Stortinget for the treatment of housing beneficiaries with disability benefit after 1 July 2016. This is a very important matter. Home security is essential — especially for disadvantaged people, and the Centre Party will have a lot of attention on what is related to housing for these people. The latest and best assessments of the impact of this have come from the Tax Directorate in terms of their 2015 advance tax release, based on figures from the 2013 income year. Obviously, there are major changes. As a result of the tax system and the interest expenditure, there are major changes, but it is about — as mentioned from others — 188 000 people who will receive an increase in net income after the conversion, i.e. about 60 pst. by non-pensioners. 127 000, or about 40 pst., will have a decline. Of the 127,000, about 83,000 will have a decrease of less than $6,000 a year, or $500 a month. So we're left with a group of 44 000 people who have a loss of over NOK 6000 per year. Of them, about 30 000 are entitled to a transitional tax deduction, i.e. that they would lose more than NOK 6000 per year without the transitional arrangements. Finally, we have the 14,000, and of them, there are about 7 000 who have occupational pensions or other disability pensions that are not from popular security. As most people understand, there are very different relationships. There are very different conditions for those who have disability benefits compared to those who have normal income to live on. No one has a good system overview of the situation and the changes we are facing, so I agree that we need to review this as soon as possible – but it becomes very, very demanding. A final summary, point No. 1: The attention of the centre party will in future focus on the disability of people with little or no ability to take income-bearing work. There must be a strong focus on this by the Council of State. Societal vigilance must be strongest for those who have the disability to live off. There must be real solidarity here. Item No 2: Those with low social security must pay particular attention to. Increasing the level of social security at the bottom will be central in the future. Today, lonely young people have about 2.91 G, approx. NOK 257 000, to live for. And anyone who knows what the cost level in Norway is knows how little it is. I noticed that while the Progress Party was in opposition, they said in the setting of 6 December 2011 that one should have a minimum of 3.3 G for young people. This is a position supported by the Central Party – one must raise at the bottom. How high a raiser and when one does that, well, it's a discussion. Item No 3: The ability of disadvantaged persons to obtain their own housing is weak. Now that we're changing the interest rate deduction, the possibility for the underprivileged to obtain their own home will be more difficult. In particular, it is important that housing beneficiaries with disability benefit receive special attention in the future. Item No 4 is about the responsibility of dependants. The child supplement must be continued. For those who have custody of children under the age of 18, we have a special responsibility to ensure that they have a decent income to live off. The fifth point concerns municipal benefits for disabled persons and their children. These must be adjusted in income so that they can act in their social life in a way that is worthy. Finally, I would like to mention what was said by the red-greens at the start of the reform, namely that there is a need for reinforced measures in the labour market, so that people with partial working capacity can get a job based on their working capacity. Getting more jobs, and more both public and private employers are interested in hiring people with partial working skills, is one of the biggest challenges we have in the future, and it is a key system that is needed to complete what was the whole philosophy behind the change we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e494	Our welfare state is facing major challenges in the future. He comes under pressure for various reasons. This is about the large growth in the number of old-age pensioners, but it is also about the large growth we have seen in the number of young unemployed and those outside the labour market. We had a debate just before Easter about regulations in the world of work, and it's clear that when we talk about those outside, they make up the unfortunate broth of them. Many people want to be able to contribute; some cannot. We who won the 2013 election, and which is the largest majority, criticised the previous government too much, not least for the many of us perceived as a reform break in the welfare state and public sector, and that one did not take the necessary steps to meet the challenges we are facing. But I'm going to admit that there's a truth with many modifications, and one of them we're discussing here today, namely the important reform of disability pensions that the government of Stoltenberg presented as a natural follow-up to the second important reform, the pension reform, which was carried out over the past eight years. They should have a great deal of credit for that, and it is good that both of the two reforms bring together a broad majority here in the Stortinget. Wider numbers are important not least around reforms that can be controversial and difficult if one of the national parliaments thinks this is necessary. And as a point of fact, I would add that it could be an advantage to be able to gather broad pluralities around also other reforms that are necessary and that are in progress, such as the community reform or the police reform. It's always easy to flip political coins on what's needed reform. It might be easy to do around the bad reform too, but I'm glad that the parties at the Stortinget in the previous period basically failed to do so. One more thing was an important adjustment to the pension reform. It makes it easier to combine social security and trying to work and get income. Gets a more streamline system. And the vast majority even come out better. Then there is a part that, after the reform came into force, has drawn in contact with me, similar to many others here in this house. I'm glad they're doing, mainly because a lot of what people are wondering about and asking about and worrying about, it's pretty easy to figure out and sort things out. In my opinion, there is essentially a lack of information or, if necessary, a lack of understanding of the information that exists, which causes many to be insecure. There is not an important problem, but it is possible to solve it. The big question we are asking here today, which is the background for the debate, is whether something has happened unexpectedly as a result of the important unpreforming reform, which the previous bigotry did not see happening, and which did not take heights, but which is why it should be adjusted. I have trouble seeing that. I was not selected in the previous period, but I have read through the settings that have been referred to, and tried to see what they put here and debated and voted, thought, and what they saw. In general, one must be able to say that the reform has met expectations, and that what one assumed was going to happen has happened. It gets a pretty good victory is safe. But it's obvious it's important that one is also honest with each other about what it was about. I thought the representative Lundteg held a good and honest article about the particular issue of how people should get out of this in terms of net benefits. It has never been the Storting's intention that everyone should come out equally or better. In that case, it would be a costly reform. One thing that was a few about, was that one should come about equally, roughly alike, or better. It is clear that there is a reason why a user uses that type of formulation from a large majority of people. And then there's a lot of people who know that they're going to have some special challenges. There has been nothing unexpected about it, but one might say that there are some problems that have been pushed on. It shall apply, inter alia: those with high indebtedness. Fortunately, the budget for the present year was taken up by the Storting, following a fast-paced initiative by the Council of State, where a good transitional arrangement was put in place after the Left's view. Then you can always discuss whether to expand it further or not. There will be a budgetary question in the forthcoming budgetary processes. But I'm glad that a co-conspirator's big deal was that this was necessary to do. Then there are some other challenges that are not unexpected, but as one of you is aware and sees, not least adaptations to the different municipal schemes. That's pointed at by several. I also hope that the Council of State will address it in its article, because it is clear that it can be a challenge for many when starting from a gross rather than a net. Unfortunately, what I think is quite pervasive about this is that, in the light of experience, the flow of information has not been good enough when the Storting has agreed to a major and comprehensive reform, that state agencies may not have spoken well enough together, and that one might not have taken large enough height to give the people who are going to get information, are not always the ones who have the greatest resources to get inside the information on their own. I myself have read and referred to in the Stortinget letter I have seen that have been sent out, which I understood quite little about, and the person who received it understood even less of. In a way, it never ends entirely to surprise me how difficult it is to formulate information in Norwegian that should actually be affordable. It is clear that there is a major challenge to the underlying budgets, which I hope they will take seriously. I know the Council of State has confirmed several times that it takes that information need seriously. But there's something that concerns many, and I think that's why there's also more to it than it might have had to be around this important reform. Then, too, the bulk of the population has been clearly informed by budgetary decisions and other governments that they should be included in the implementation of the reform and take the height and possibly the height of action if there is something that appears that had not been foreseen, or that was foreseen, but that should be addressed. But when it comes to concluding, it's too soon enough. Reform has only worked for a few months. There have been errors in printing tax cards etc. in the State. Of course, it's critical, but it's now happening. Still, a not total knows too many before this year's end. So starting at a very large review and evaluation of a newly introduced reform, it's probably hard to get something good out of, but there's no doubt that one should follow both from the Storting and not least from the government's side, of course. It's important to reform the wrong way. It has a wide multiple behind it. I don't interpret today's debate there as one has a less wide plurality behind it now, rather on the contrary, and I think it's important for the foresight of all the hundreds of thousands of people this actually owes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e524	I would like to start by thanking you for the initiative for this debate. It was an important and necessary initiative. I hope that, in the course of the day, we will be wiser, and that the picture of how the economic situation of the disabled has, overall, become clearer after the conversion. I also want to clarify the importance of having a safe and stable income that allows you to be self-contained as well as sick. It is an important and necessary task for a community to solve. It's about preventing poverty among those who don't have health to work. But it's not just a question of dignity and being able to stand on your own, it's also a question of health and quality of life for those involved. We believe that people should use the forces to stay on their legs and not all the forces to make the ends meet. Therefore, a lack of virtue is absolutely essential. Disability is also a class question. Therefore, SV has always fought for a safe and sustainable social security that is not to be assessed and creates unnecessary stress before health changes, if necessary. No one chooses disability. We do not choose our own health, and there are careful assessments that lie behind any application and any decision about disability. And it'll always pay to work -- it'll be both social and economic. We know disability is going to go wrong. We know that women are more affected than men, we know that people with shorter education are more affected than people with longer education, and that people in tough physical professions are more exposed to disability than academics, for example. When people experience the loss of miscarriage – yes, it also gets crooked. The majority agreed that the default reform should not be a savings reform, people should have almost the same misappropriation after tax as before. It has also referred to so far in the debate that the review tone of Prop. 130 L for 2010–2011 and the position of the Labour and Social Committee is that it is precisely that perspective that people should not lose in relation to what they have to travel with. I'll bring some small extracts from Prop. 130 L and direct attention to page 133, where it says: ‘The solution must ensure that the rights of the individual are properly and properly respected. Unearned pensioners must be given sufficient time to adapt to new rules. Persons who are already receiving a disability pension should also not be subject to excessive changes in their benefits when the plan is restated.» And later in the document, it is said with all clarity that it is added that ‘the performance of the disability pensioners is transferred to the new legislation in such a way that the post-tax default benefit is the same as before’. [[converted]] Similar wordings are found in several places, and several have also mentioned them earlier in the debate. I would also like to mention ‘the ministry assumes that post-tax disability benefit is to be minimised by the conversion’, as an example of that type of wording and intention. We also see that the Committee follows up on its comments by, inter alia, to say: ‘It is assumed that it is ensured that government employees do not lose purchasing power as a result of the tax change. The Committee notes that this may also apply to private occupational pension schemes.’;» We also see that the minority comments from the Progress Party state that the post-tax default rate should be at the same level as before. It is also referred to in full by the representative Lundtägen in previous speeches. The debate in this room also reflected the same tone around having reduced revenues or not. The current representative Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party asked a question to the then state councillor Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm: ‘Is it that one should have approximated the same performance that there will be some groups here that will have a lower net performance than is the case today?’ The answer from then State Council Bjurstrøm was that ‘in the vast majority of cases, the individual will have more or less the same thing as today’. It is not my intention to repeat quotes from documents – I expect that people have used the Easter to refresh. But this is an important understanding of the reality being taken into account. What is the situation now, and what is it that needs to be done? From the point of view of the SV, it is clear that Stortinget’s intention to reform has not been followed up well enough. It's about the progress we're looking at, the examples mentioned earlier in the debate, and all those who have made contact with each of us – and probably many more than those who are present here now – that show that the reality of the post-conversion situation is not at all in line with the reality described by the Committee in its comments. And it is documented in the State Council's letter to the Labour and Social Committee dated 25 March 2015 that 40 pst. the unearned pensioners will have a decrease in net income. In addition, the assumption of going through the housing support system is not followed up. On the contrary, we have seen a narrowing in that field, and we also see that increasing gross causes people to lose at the other end of their lives in terms of the municipal services they need. If you agree that there should be no significant loss for the individual, the big question is: What is a significant loss? What does that mean, and what does it mean to have approximated the same misperformance? In the letter of reply from the Council of State it seems that the government assumes that plus/minus NOK 6000 is not significant. That's what it says. «However, the vast majority of these do not receive a substantial reduction in post-tax income.» And then the explanation: ‘However, in the case of occupational retirement provision not previously taxed, an increase in social security contributions implies a tax tightening. Some in this group will thus receive a reduction in post-tax income exceeding NOK 6000 per year as a result of the increased social security charge.» So a loss of up to NOK 6000 per year is defined as an approximately equal payment. That's an understanding that we in SV don't share. If you live on low social security, 500 kroner a month from or to have a lot to say. There could be a couple of football shoes for the kids now that it's become ours. It is also an understanding that the government must base its policy on. In the February Questionnaire this year, the Council of State said that the unintended effects of the reform had been corrected by transitional arrangements. I would like to make it clear that it is good that there is a transitional arrangement, but it is nevertheless clear that it is neither accurate enough nor of sufficient duration. Three years is perceived as very short for many when it comes to changing their economy. Some people who lose their living quarters live at the same time in custom - made dwellings. It is neither easy nor appropriate to move away from a suitable dwelling and into something that may be cheaper if the need is custom-made housing. We need a compensation scheme that allows people to live in their own homes even when you're out of work, without fear of being able to afford to pay bills or loans. In the current year’s budget, SV proposed that a new ten-year compensation scheme for the disabled as a loss on conversion should be established, but unfortunately was not supported. Then the situation was even less transparent than it is today. Now it's clear that very many lose, and that many lose considerable sums. I would therefore like to inform you that SV will take the initiative and would like to propose a permanent compensation scheme for those who lose out on the implementation of the disability reform. Such a scheme cannot wait for large evaluations, for bills on electricity and rent are to be paid this month and next, and not after a possible evaluation has to be in place. Unfair reform should never be a savings reform. There's a difference between making it easier for people to work and making it harder for people who don't have health to work. SV fully supports the first, but cannot accept that sick people should bear the burden of unintended consequences of a unanimous reform. In that perspective, the Progress Party also appears to share such a starting point in its comments on the case, where it is said that if unintended effects should occur, they must be compensated so that people ‘retain the same net performance, and not an almost equivalent performance’. Disadvantages have lived with great uncertainty, and many have expressed frustration at the lack of information about their future income. So in the Questionnaire, I asked what the Council of State wants to do to remedy the unsustainable situation in which the country's atrocities have ended, and the Council of State, Eriksson, said: ‘I do not share the view that there is an unsustainable situation in which all the disabled people of the country have come. When eight out of ten disabled people have come out better, I don't think there's an unsustainable situation. I think that's a good situation. It shows that there is a reform that is successful and that makes it easier to combine work and retirement.’ I doubt that the Council of State would say the exact same thing today, because we see that there are other numbers that are at stake now. When it turns out that it wasn't like that, but that more losses, and that the losses for many are significant – if you live on a low performance, $500 a month is significant – we should be able to find solutions together to compensate people for their losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e594	Let me start by reminding you of the debate we have today on the effects of the new misguided reform on people. It is difficult to have a completely concrete and transparent picture in view of a three-month reform, where a tax settlement is known only next year, which means that you have to relate to the figures that exist in the tax rate at present and which are well reported in letters also sent to the Committee, where you have used LOTTE-Treatment, and where you have prescribed it after the 2015 figures. But first of all, let me underline something you're going to take seriously, and it's the people who experience an uncertain everyday life, people who feel that they haven't been given enough information: what's the effect on me? How does new disability reform turn out to me? How does my everyday life become after this? There, I think both we who are in government today, and those who have been in government before, have to admit what the representative Syversen said in his post, and that's a legitimate question: Have we been good enough to provide understandable information? Have we been good enough to provide good enough information? I think the answer is no, and I think we have a significant learning potential in the years to come, which also the representative Rotevatn was in, to be more good at providing good enough information, more understandable information, so that people understand things better, and see what it's like for themselves. Let me also quote a little bit as to why these statements have really come, and why we're experiencing this. These include: because of the tax conversion. The most important part of getting these conversions is that you now have to tax disability in the same way that you do with employee income. Let me then quote that an overall committee said when we dealt with Prop. 130 L for 2010-2011: ‘The Committee agrees that the disability benefit should be taxed as labour income when new disability benefits are introduced. This applies to both those who come from the old scheme and those who receive the benefit under the new rules. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, emphasises that those converted from the old scheme are to be compensated for increased taxes by increasing gross performance in order to maintain almost the same net performance. The Committee would point out that there are several advantages in taxing all employed persons under the same tax rules. It will be predictable for those who can combine disability and work, strengthening the aim of seamless transitions.» This tells me that one of the most important pillars of new disability benefit is the tax conversion, a tax conversion that the whole Stortinget supported, agreed and thought was right. I also expect the Stortinget today to believe that this is correct, and it was a decision that was taken in the autumn of 2011. Furthermore, new tax rules on defaults were adopted in December 2012, which also had broad support in the Stortinget. It is then said that there have been unintended effects. Much of what has been up in the debate today, that someone is coming out worse, was well known when we dealt with both Prop. 130 L in 2011 and the 2012 tax conversion. It was known that someone would come out worse. It was also said, as the representative Bergstø was here, when it came to them with occupational pension. It was again pointed out by the government of Stoltenberg when the tax proposition was presented in 2013. The removal of the tax-restriction rule meant that those with occupational pensions and who had income above $50,000 would get tax-reduction because they got out of the transitional rule, they got out and couldn't apply the tax-restriction rule, so they would get tax-reduction. It was well-lit in several propositions, not an unintended effect, at my discretion. So you can ask yourself the question that I think is important in this debate, and it's: how does new dissatisfaction affect the different groups? Well, those who have only failed and had it before 2015 from popular security will have been compensated for increased tax with increased gross benefit, so they come out like they do today. The winnings of the conversion are the minimum pensioners with debts, the low and medium disability pension is also paid, the child allowance is paid, the representative Bergstø has to afford to buy football shoes, the disability is graded at a rate lower than two thirds of the disability, and the special supplement has a low rate of disability. It is the group that comes out better if we create some categories for this – they come out better. Who will then become the losers in the new system and get out a little worse? Indeed, it is wrong that has previously been taxed under the tax restriction rule and that has large income deductions, including deductions of interest on debts. There will also be some couples, one of whom is unfinished and previously came out very favourably because they distributed all the interest on the debt on it not wronging the spouse, while the debtor still received half of the interest on the debt in the calculation under the tax restriction rule. It is those who are classified under 100 p.p., but at least as high as two thirds of the disability rate, and who suffer with a high total disability pension receiving occupational retirement provision. They lose weight on this and come out a little worse. In other words, this is because of the tax system and the equal taxation of unearned pensioners and all income, as foreseen by the Stortinge when the proposal was dealt with in 2011 and the tax conversion was adopted in 2012. Why does it turn out worse? Yes, because those who could come under the tax restriction rule could subtract 150 pst. in some cases, the tax effect, the tax rate, was quite high in 55 pst. You could subtract up to 55 pst in the past. of the debt costs, against 37 pst. Today, but some of them with high debt will naturally lose weight on that conversion. It was an effect that was known in 2011, as it was known in 2012, and Bergstø refers in a fine way to the line exchange between me as a staggering representative at the time and the then State Council. Why wouldn't you have taken into account to put this around? There are four ways we can meet this challenge. I think it is important to have a good, sustainable system in the future. I think it is important that we take seriously the decisions that the Stortinget has taken. But I also think it is important that we take everyday life to the destitutes seriously. And how are we going to meet that situation? I belong to a minority government. I'm dependent on having a majority in this room to change politics, I'm totally dependent on it. I register a number of newspaper posts that say: Eriksson, fix it! If I were to fix it, what solution would you prefer? Point 1: we can go back to the old tax system. As a result, the frail reform is a mere saga. This will mean that the 188 000 and those with the minimum benefits today that come out better, that have debt interest rates, will be lost if they have to be converted back. Is there a dangerous solution that Storting prefers? - Yes or no? The second option is to say that those who were in an old system before 31 December 2014 should have the old rules, while those who came after, i.e. from 1 January 2015, should have the new tax rules. It was one of the questions that was also discussed in the Committee of Appeal, which was also discussed in this Chamber, and the then government parties – the three plus those who were in opposition – said, including my own party, that it was not a desired situation to operate with two systems in parallel, which would be valid for 50 years to come. It was a little desirable. I'm assuming that it's still as little desirable. If we don't get the signal back. The third way we can do it, as I see it, is to say that we're continuing the transitional arrangement for those who are covered by the transitional arrangement, prolonging it, maybe, as SV says, permanently, as long as they're disabled, and compensating for the 14,000 that now loses more than NOK 6,000. Then we get the same consequence as under the second option, as I said, by operating with two parallel tax systems, but then we get a little less, just 50,000, disembodied for 50 years to come. Is it a principle that we believe is right – that the 50 000 should have a different tax system – or is it not? Or we could take the fourth solution and say that to be sure that no losses, we're increasing gross performance so much. Is it a principle that we believe is right – to say that the more debt you have and take up, the higher the unpremise you have to get to compensate you for not losing interest on an old system that is gradually out of date? Is it a principle that this room prefers? I also need some clear answers when you are so clear in the media and say: Eriksson, fix it! Which of the four sketched solutions is possible, should we use to fix it? What solutions are the majority in this Chamber for? That's my question back. Is that how to understand that we repent and believe that the tax restriction rule, which means a conversion to the old tax system, was not tricked and not good? I think the representative Syversen has a very good point. If we think of two couples, a couple where both are over 50 years old and a young newly-trained couple: in the case of the couple, where one has a salary in a place between 800,000 and 1 million. kr and the other spouse has had a high performance, high earnings and high occupational retirement provision and is 80 pst. completed. They're buying a house in Spain, taking up $2 million. kr extra in loans – that’s one of the dilemmas – to realize their pension dream, which I think is very good that they realize, very well that they buy that holiday home. Is it true that they should be able to subtract 150 pst. of the interest costs, while the young couple, who are newly educated, who are to establish themselves on the housing market, where one spouse, with the lowest wage, has 100 pst. job and the other 50 pst. involuntary part-time, shall be subtracted from only 100 pst. of the interest costs, i.e. a smaller part of the interest costs? Is it a principle we believe is good and fair redistribution policy? In my head, it's not. In the debates we had when we discussed the under-reform and tax conversion, some of it was just how to ensure a good system, how to have a uniform tax system, and what it's going to be like in the future if we had to change the tax system, because that's where the solutions lie. If, in two to three years' time, a person changes the level of debt, takes up more loans, should a person move to another tax regime if two tax systems are to operate? What about the cases where you converted where the failure was 50 pst. is disabled and becomes e.g. in two years 100 pst. - What's going on? Should you have half of each order? I'm asking the questions just because there are many dilemmas going on, and we all have a common responsibility to find the good answers on how to make sure that we get a good game. It's also true, as the representative Bergstø said, that if you get a lot of results, you have to get back to it. This government has come back to it with the transitional rule. Without the transitional rule, there had not been 14,000 people we had been here and discussing today, who have come out NOK 6000 or worse. Without the transitional rule, it would have been 45,000. We all agreed on essentially the same level. My question back to SV and Bergstø when she asks me a question is: What defines SV as ‘on the ground’, when they say 500 kroner per month is too dramatic – aren’t there any minor changes? What's 'on the team'? Had the government at that time discussed and defined the concept of ‘about’, what was the understanding of it? The definition that we have used in the Storting, even when we presented the transitional arrangement, was «about» plus/minus NOK 6000. Did you have a different definition at that time? I do not know any definition that was proclaimed in this room in 2011–2012. I also think it is an important question that the representative Syversen addresses about how this will take place over time and how we should follow it up. I think it's right of us to follow the evolution. I and the government have said that we will continue to follow the evolution of living conditions in the future. We'll keep an eye on the effect. One thing is that we in LOTTE-Trügd had used the taxes from 2012 projected to 2015. It might be a good idea for us to make an assessment based on 2013 figures next year, and the following year might also get an assessment based on 2014 figures to see if it is consistent with the projections we have received. As also the representative of Christoffersen said: Has one got the right tax card, or has one not? The tax base is also important, and none of us know before the tax settlement, nor do we, as employees, know it until the next spring, for the current year. So the exact numbers are going to be next spring. I am pleased that those who have been on the pulpit today are so clearly saying that the unfavorable reform and the principles of the reform are firmly established. I mean it's an important signal, and it's a signal that we take with us. I believe that disability reform is a good reform that makes it easier for those who can work to combine work and social security, while at the same time providing a good income assurance for those who are unable to work. It was also the very foundation when a new arrangement was introduced. It has to be taken care of. I also think that what the representative Lundtigen pointed to, and which really does not belong to the casual debate as such, is a very important question: how are we going to create a working life that makes it easier and better to include those who have a residual working capacity in that working life? I feel that is what the representative Lundteg is calling for. How are we going to get employers to open their doors and doors to those people who have a job capacity that can be offered to the labour market? I'm very concerned that we're going to get better instruments in that area. I also believe that we are doing well what the Stortinget treated just before Easter, namely a new long-term salary subsidy that allows you to make up to 75 pst. of wages and salaries up to 5 G, and that it is permanent for those who are permanently at risk of losing their jobs – you can bring that wage subsidy with you until you become a retired person. That, I think, is a good measure. My clear call has been – and I repeat it from this pulpit – that the business community is using that system. The fact that we get a new and better eaten inclusion allowance and a follow-up contract, I hope to help make it easier for employers to accept that workforce. I would also like to welcome several good proposals and measures in this area. I fully agree with the representative Lundtigen that we have a major challenge, it is an important task, and it is a desired political objective to ensure that those who want to and can work are given the opportunity to put their labour force to work in the labour market in a good and proper way. A new arrangement is something we all have and had a common responsibility for when we dealt with this – with cross-political agreement – in Stortinget. But I also take seriously the concerns of all those who are uncertain about how this turns out. That is why I think it is important, the work we have done on my part, where the department and I follow the evolution of living conditions closely. We also know that the municipal councillor is looking at housing support schemes, precisely to ensure that we get rid of some of the effects we really don't want, just to get the most accurate solution possible. But I also think we should be so honest and say to each other that there could not be a single person in this room who thought that everyone, who is also pointed out by the representative Lundtigen, would come out like a new order. It couldn't be said with one's hand in the heart, all the time when it was thought that one of the most important pillars was to change the tax system, to rearrange the tax system so that all income was taxed as income from employees, and that the tax limitation rule disappeared, which did not allow many with high debts to deduct parts of that debt by 55 pst. It was something that was well-lit, and that was well-known. I finally remind you of the four ways we can handle this, and I hope we get good input and good answers to what is wanted from this room about which direction we're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e644	I must have expressed myself rather unclear if the Council of State has the impression that in my post, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I said, 'Eriksson, fix it!' It is precisely because it is difficult and complicated that we have asked for a survey of the actual outcome of the reform and an investigation of possible solutions. In fact, it has also been done by the government parties and their cooperation parties. Reference was made, inter alia: to a majority comment earlier in the debate. The difference may be that we want more detailed information in relation to the revised national budget, and the Council of State itself said that there are only four possible solutions. We're not prepared to answer here and now what's best. There's a bit of the division of labour between big business and government, that the government comes up with an investigation and makes possible consequences visible, and then the Storting answers. Does what the Council of State says, that we can't expect anything about this in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e649	I don't know what concrete it is the representative Christoffersen wants to have revised. It has been sent to the Committee by several letters, carefully, who comes out evenly, which components must be in place to come out equally. I spoke from the pulpit about who's gonna be the loser, who's gonna be the winner. What else is what you really want? It is also in relation to the income categories how this turns out. I can always add that information to the revised national budget if desired. But is there any new and other kind of information in addition to what we have already provided, which the representative wants to bring in?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e655	I record that my question was met with a counter-question. Then I think I'm choosing to angle my question a little differently: how has the Council of State intended to follow up the majority comment of its own government parties and supporting parties here in the Stortingen to follow this closely and come back to Stortingen with proposals for changes in cases of unforeseen effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e660	We'll follow up on the way I expressed it from the pulpit, both in the work we've already started, which is to collect information from LOTTE-Treasure, where we see the consequences of forwarding to 2015. As I said to the representative Syversen, it would be natural that we go through it and look at the numbers when we know the final tax settlement next spring. It might also be natural for us to look at the figures for 2013 and 2014, including forwarding, in order to get a more comprehensive picture of whether the situation has changed. Only then can you have a good enough basis to look at it. At the same time, I would like to say that we are working on it, and I know that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is working on looking at the housing support system, which goes independently of it. That's a good way to follow up that remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e665	Does the Government's answer to my previous question mean that what the Labour Party is really asking for in this debate, is something the State Council is going to come to the Stortinget – at a little later than what we want, but that there will then be a reasoned investigation and concrete proposals for action to the Stortinget, based on an assessment of whether we are within or outside what the Stortinget meant when we said that people would get about the same thing as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e670	It is still difficult for me to answer that question, all the time when the representative Christoffersen does not define what she is putting into the concept of the same thing, and all the time when the representative Christoffersen does not specify what information she is asking for in addition to the information she has already received today and which she wants to further investigate.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e675	There were many questions from the Council of State in the post. I'm not going to take the call to answer everyone. It has something to do with a division of labour, and I see that it is primarily up to the government to respond to the challenges that the Storting has addressed. I am concerned with the one important challenge that we have jointly had, namely in the budget to look at the unintended effects. It also says that the government is asked to return to it in an appropriate way. So there's no deadline. Let me ask you this: does the Council of State at this point see that there are some unintended effects he believes there is a basis for doing something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e684	Thank you for the question. I will first be allowed to tell the representative of the Syversen that I know the distribution between the magnificence and the government. But it's now that it's very good to present something to the Storting, that you know what principles the Storting might want to deviate from the principles that were in force in the past, in order to be able to present a good case. I believe that there are no obvious unintended effects that we did not know about either in 2011 or 2012 that we know about today. But I also believe that we see some not unintended but unfortunate effects, such as: operates on housing support schemes and housing aid, by calculating gross performance. This is something that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is working on – it's under that department. I feel confident that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will take this issue seriously and will present something for the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e691	Should I then understand that, as far as what is under the authority of the Council of State is concerned, he does not see at the moment. that there are some — whether we call it unintended or unlucky — effects on which there is a basis for looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e696	Not that I'm familiar with today. I don't see any new unintended effects – especially given that we saw that there were many who would have dramatic changes in their taxes, get a dramatic tax increase, from one day to the next if there had not been a transitional arrangement. That transitional arrangement has been put in place, thanks to the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left. In addition to that, I do not see that there are new unintended effects that we do not know about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e701	I would first like to thank you for the interesting reflections in the articles of the Council of State, and I look forward to bringing them forward in the debate today. My question is related to the amount of NOK 6000 plus or minus, and the government's clear claim that it is not an unintended consequence, and that an understanding that NOK 6000 in losses was within the framework of what was at stake when dealing with the disability reform. I have not been able to find it in any document, and my question is therefore: Where is the premise?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e708	Firstly, I also want to know what is ‘the same thing’ from the previous government, and I have not found it in any document. When we came up with transitional arrangements, we defined plus/minus NOK 6000 as what was within. And that's how we talk about $6,000 gross. Take tax and net – I’m not going to start counting on it very quickly in my head, but I believe 500 kroner a month is initially manageable for most people. I said gross. I'm a little bit unsure whether it's gross or net that's 500, but the effect could be 500 kroner for the individual, and it was defined in the proposition that went on transitional arrangements, when we based it on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e717	The President said at the opening of today's meeting that it is historic that for the first time we are dealing with a matter under Section 22 of the Rules of Procedure, the new opportunity such as: Lundtigen and others took the initiative. I think it is good that the first debate, following the possibility in the Rules of Procedure, is about a matter that is so important. I think it serves the new institute, as it is, that it is being used on a big case. It is used on a big case in two ways. First of all, it's a big thing because it's one of them maybe not too common examples that a total mass has been behind the main features of a reform like the one that underlies what we're discussing today. It was to a large extent the story of the whole pension reform, of which this is part, that at all times the government — because it actually began under Bondevik — there was good dialogue between the government parties at all times and all opposition parties. There may also be something to learn from — about police reform and other treatment issues. This case started with an investigation initiated by the Bondevik administration, and was then dealt with by a broad majority. And it's been treated in a lot of ways. Even after the change of government and before the budget for the current year, we have been dealing with issues in the Storting, which concerned the implementation of the reform of the poor, with a broad majority at the back. But it's also a tough thing for them. There are more than 300,000 people in Norway who are given their livelihoods economically by the decisions taken in this room. That is precisely why we are concerned that these people should have predictability and know what the future will bring. I also refer to the excellent speech by the representative of Christoffersen, with a balanced and responsible review of the starting point of today's debate. It is a debate about a reform that everyone is responsible for, and on that basis we feel a shared responsibility for it and for the implementation of the reform. Then I record that someone has chosen to start using the propagandistic word ‘Stoltenberg Reform’, ‘the reform of the red-green government’ and so on, but the fact is that this is something the majority has been behind. Then, as we approached the implementation of the reform, we began to raise many questions to ourselves – probably also to other parties, certainly to all the representatives of big business – with uncertainty as to what the new reform would bring. But even more questions came, on which the representative Christoffersen was in, after 1 January, when people saw the first net they put back into the wallet to live on. There were large numbers that were out there and went – yes, some claimed that as many as 200,000, or even more than 200,000, could have come out of the reform badly. We then find it responsible to look at the reform and implementation of the initiative that underpins the debate here today, and I am pleased that there was agreement in the committee to raise the matter to debate. We think that many people feel insecure — some rightly, some wrongly — give cause for humility in the decisions we have made and for quality assurance in a proper way. Then, in addition, what the representative Syversen was in there in a good way, is the ability to be informed about the information that should be based on two sites. One is in the Nav system, and the other is in the tax system. Then it turns out that some of the explanation that someone has actually received less money than they thought, in January and February, is – let's say – a wrong tax card, too high tax rates and a new practice that one pays the tax in a little less time than one did as a pensioner. It's an explanation of some of the volume of the number that feels like they've got less to route. In addition to those with a high debt. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on the proposal to make a compensation scheme for those with a debt burden, but seriously, that is a matter of course. It is not even close to being relevant, as was mentioned here earlier in the debate. Of course, it had been proposed by the red-green government based on the same analyses as the government makes, if the red-green government had been sitting. But okay, that's good, and it was unanimously adopted in Stortinget, even though it's being attempted the flag as a major party political breakthrough. The same thing can be said about housing support, where the opposition has taken the initiative in the review that we now all hope will come. But there are two examples of issues that arise in a long process of implementing a reform. So the question is, was it, for example, intended that those who have 22 kroner per hour in addition to working in a permanent job should receive the increased tax on the few dollars? Perhaps we have not been aware of it, but it is in fact that the Storting has been very aware of earlier that this money should not lead to a shortening of the disability benefit. You've had a conscious view of it. And perhaps one in any of these areas could be something more humble from the Council of State to see: Could there be something here that hasn't been entirely intended and thoughtful? There were also very many people who thought they had weakened their living conditions financially. That was the background for us to invite to the hearing – the three former government parties and with the Christian People's Party as an active participant in that hearing. Of course, it's not right what Wiborg says – I heard the representative Wiborg had found out a new excuse that the majority parties would not have a hearing. But let me say it this way: the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV together with the Christian People's Party organised a hearing that was absolutely not contrary to the Stortingen Rules of Procedure. There, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left could be there if they wanted to hear people's experience of the Reform and take people seriously. There shall be limits to the establishment of the establishment, on the basis of the rules of procedure of the Storting. Then the Council of State Eriksson insisted that someone should have said, ‘Eriksson, fix it!’. I have read many comments on this matter. I haven't seen one place that someone has said it. But if someone has said that, there is at least no one from the Workers' Party. We've said the very opposite, which Lise Christoffersen had a very good review of at first. We are in favour of the reform we have been behind, but we feel so much responsibility for this reform that we want to be sure that nothing will happen unintentionally so that people come out worse than one had foreseen. So it's the very opposite of "Eriksson, fix it!" But we've probably been thinking that Eriksson might have taken on more seriously the signals that are coming, and investigate. From this point of view, I would say that already the fact that we have this debate is a step forward – that we are actually able to have a discussion of the situation. So state councillor Eriksson asks a number of rhetorical questions to Stortinget, and says that he must have the support of the majority of the population in order to get an impact on things. Yeah, then make suggestions, then! On the proposal for a transitional regime for those with a debt burden, there was no one in the Stortinget. If the Council of State has proposals for action that he believes are necessary, I can at least promise that the Workers' Party will not oppose it in order to correct unintended effects. We haven't suggested, as the Council of State stands here and says, that we want to revisit the whole reform in relation to the questions he asks the Stortinge. No, we've taken responsibility for the reform, and we're making sure it's implemented in a way that people out there can actually live with based on the assumptions they thought they had. In Tønsberg, the Council of State has also said that this is not government reform, it is the reform of the previous government. I think that is a disclaimer of responsibility, and it is a strange parliamentary tradition if it is such that a government council is bound by the previous majority of the population, and not by the current majority of the population. But here we're based on unanimous decisions. But there was nothing to prevent the Council of State and the government from proposing a radical cut in the children's supplement, which had actually been part of the discussion, but was abandoned as part of the broad consensus at the time of the misrepresentation. Nor did it prevent the Council of State from submitting the proposal that we should not have a milder, i.e. a half, effect on the life-long adjustment of the disabled who are going on to retirement, which the Stortinge had actually decided we should have, and which fortunately the Stortinge once again decided that we should have, despite the proposals of the Council of State. So it's possible for the government to make proposals. It is possible for the government to be stopped by the bulk of the population when it attacks them, as it did in these two cases. But it will also – and I invite the Council of State – be possible to come to Stortinget with proposals to compensate for any unintended effects of the decisions taken. Then it is clear that it has not made the situation any easier that, in addition to discussing lifestyle adjustment, we have discussed a cut in the car system, many of which are dependent on transitional benefits, etc. But it's not part of the bad reform, we've gone against it. The misreform that it was adopted, we are fully behind us and want a good implementation of it. It is a part that can be explained, for example. with taxes, both tax cards and the number of months you pay tax. The Council of State has sent some answers to the Committee, and it is clear that, for example: a group of 60 pst. Which is plus/minus NOK 6000 is a very large group. This could be interesting, for example. in the context of the revision, to obtain some more detailed information on who is in which of those groups. Because there's a pretty big difference for someone who's dissatisfied and has it as the only basis of life, if you have $6,000 a minus a year, or if you have $6,000 a plus a year. I believe that this debate has been a long way off following what was the purpose of the proposal to introduce the possibility of an own-initiative debate under Section 22. For our part, it has been important, even if you are suspected of anything else, to show, as we have always said in the interviews we have given, that we take responsibility for the reform and stand behind it. In addition, it has been important for us to take seriously the signals we have received from many who have given feedback that they actually have less to live for this month than they had before. And then it's been important, for example. based on the opinions of the Council of State to Tønsberg Blad, who for a long time followed this matter as one of many media, and the disclaimer we saw there, to get the Council of State to take matters seriously and follow up the Storting's formulation that one should follow closely the reform and unintended effects. I hope, even though it is not possible to revise analyses based on the 2015 tax income, that it is possible to better understand any small or large unintended effects. Take the example I used of permanent work. I hope, despite that rejection, we heard from Eriksson on questions from several of the representatives, that it will be possible to come back with a more detailed basis on the facts in the revised version. At least we are going to follow this case continuously in the various ways in which the Storting can address the Council of State, in line with the majority of people who have said, that one should follow closely and, if necessary, adjust in view of unintended effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e765	It was an interesting post, and fortunately, with today's modern technology, it is easy to find more examples that several red-green staging representatives have thought that this is simple, and that the council just has to fix it. So there's a lot of examples of that. My question is about the transitional regime, because, as I was also involved in my own contribution, this was a transitional arrangement on which the Council of State, Robert Eriksson, took the initiative and put forward proposals. The Labour Party and Dag Terje Andersen never proposed a transitional arrangement. When Stortinget dealt with the matter in 2011, the Workers' Party chose to go against the comments of the Progress Party on the need for a transitional arrangement. When the challenge of the UN reform became known in 2013, the Workers’ Party chose to move towards a transitional regime. My question to the representative is: What is the reason why the Labour Party has opposed it in 2011 and 2013 to turn it around now?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e772	That's wrong. The Workers' Party has examined the proposal for transitional arrangements once. That was when the government brought it in in connection with the 2015 budget. Of course, we would present the same transitional arrangement if such unintended effects, as was said at the time of the mistreatment. Then I allow myself to challenge Wiborg on: if he can quote that someone from the Workers' Party has said ‘Eriksson, fix it!’, put it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e779	I note that the representative did not answer my question, because why did the Workers' Party choose to go against the 2011 comments on a transitional arrangement? The challenges to be addressed by the transitional regime also became apparent in 2013. What was the reason why the Workers' Party did not then choose to propose it?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e784	This is because the transitional regime was promoted in the implementation of the reform, when one had the figures that there were some people who came out unlucky. Any government is based on the analyses available from the Office and the transitional arrangements proposed at the time of the reform were unanimously adopted. Is there one quote that someone from the Workers' Party has said, 'Eriksson, fix it!'?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e791	That question has to remain unanswered, it looks like. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e796	First, I would like to join the post from the representative Bergstø and also the post that was now held by the representative Andersen – and the content of them. I am very pleased that there is a debate on this big issue, because it was a big and difficult reform with very many elements. Not only was it the dissatisfaction of the people's fears, but also the disadvantages of the various occupational pensions and how this should eventually be sewn together in order to become a good package – and where the principle, which has been discussed by many, is that it should be easier for those who can work a little, but also with a perfectly defined principle, namely that those who have the lowest benefits should not lose out on this change, on the contrary. What we're discussing most today is how much loss you can count on when it's going to be «over the course of time». I'll come back to that a little bit. For SV, it was incredibly important that we ensure a disability where the minimum performance was raised and where the child supplement was fixed, because it is absolutely necessary to have a proven child supplement for those families with the lowest performance. We were also very pleased to see that we had a halve of the life expectancy adjustment of the disability pension. Like the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, I am also of those who are quite upset that this was some of the government that came back with everyone first, that of cutting off the child supplement and removing the half-life adjustment of the disability pension. I just want to remind the assembly that fully implemented it brings 6 billion. kr from disabled old-age pensioners to the State. The point of that was that if you've been unemployed, you can't take advantage of your old age pension's ability to work any longer. I don't think anyone here thinks that it's possible for someone who's been disqualified until one is 67 years old, suddenly to get a job and to be able to work longer to zero out the living adjustments, like others, at least in theory, can. What was important to us was also that there should be a lasting social security, that is, that should not be tested at regular intervals, which some parties in this room have proposed, and which were also involved in the selection. In addition, we wanted to keep the scheme with Young People performing the way it was, and not like that. The Progress Party proposed that it should not be a fixed arrangement from 40 years old, but that it should be tested at regular intervals, perhaps every three months for 20 years, before a fixed income was received. There were a lot of elements in this that were difficult, but what was quite clear was that when we looked at all these conversions together, and also at the tax conversion, we agreed that we had to have a setup where no one would lose much. In the debate in the Chamber, then State Council Bjurstrøm said the following: ‘The day’s disability pensioners will therefore be affected to a small extent by the reform, in addition to having a simpler and better system for trying to work.’ That was the main direction of what was done. Then there's also been a discussion about whether there's been a lack of information for the poor. There's probably a lot to say about, both that it's missing, and that it might even have been a little bit incomprehensible to many, because it's not easy to understand what's in the information from the public, and maybe especially not from the Nav, and maybe especially not in the case of retirement, because it's quite technical. But I don't think that's the main problem. If people lose over $6,000, maybe even up to $20,000, this month, there probably isn't a lack of information that is the problem, then there's too little money to live with. That's the question: is there any flaws in this system that have made some loses more than we think are reasonable? On the SV side, we believe that losses of over NOK 6000 are very unreasonable. 6000 kroner is a lot of money, even for me, so when you have a lot less income than that and have no opportunity to influence your own income, I think we're going to have all the respect for those people who see that this actually becomes completely impossible for them to live with. That's why we're very happy that we're getting this case up now, and that we can discuss it in its breadth and see if there's not a broad understanding in the Stortinget that if it's possible to find any arrangements now that can fix any of this, then we should try to find them. I'm glad the government put forward a transitional arrangement, but it's quite unthinkable that another government hadn't. The SV proposed a better transitional regime because we thought it was too bad. So a transitional arrangement is one thing – it should, for example, be. be a little longer than the government has now proposed. The second is whether there has to be some lasting changes that make the results we have seen not so big, and then someone has tried to see some sort of unrest if you disagree with the principles of the reform itself. No, we're not, but we're looking for mechanisms to improve the situation for those who lose a lot. I also hear that the government is now saying that they will work with the housing support. Yeah, but what we've seen so far from the housing support came into the budget, so it was a cut of 190 million. kr and a tightening of the rules for housing, which meant that some of those we are now talking about are not getting housing support at all. The opposite should have been done, of course, that the government had made the necessary changes in housing support, which would have meant that no one had lost the state housing support system. For no one would think that someone would do that, because they have increased gross benefits because of the new tax system – that it would seem that someone would get worse with housing support. But I record that the government's response to this has not been an increase in housing support, but a strong cut: 190 million. kr in the year’s budget. We may be at the core now, because most of the interest income that you now get less tax credit for than you got before is related to living. I hear someone talking about buying an extra holiday home in the South etc. That's not what it's all about for most people. It's about having a decent dwelling, and there's perhaps reason to discuss whether there should be a full deduction of all debt interest to buy cabins and dwellings in the South, and that kind of, but a dwelling you have to have, and if you're not finished, you need a good dwelling, which is adapted. And it's not just moving and finding something cheaper. Most people who have disability have low income, it shows all the tables. That means that almost all the unsatisfied people have to have quite a large loan, and when you have quite a large loan, it's a big cost. If, in addition, the housing support is cut, as the government has now done, this is going to be an arithmetic that doesn't jump for these people. Possible solutions are then to look at other changes related to housing support or other schemes to assist people who need to have loans to obtain a place to live. There are probably a lot of people who might think of working a little, but it's not that easy to get a job, there's more talk about here today, and especially not if the health is swinging. Then it is to be able to exploit a working capacity for many a very theoretical opportunity, and not a real opportunity, sail if you had needed it in order to serve, for example. his mortgage. It is not always easy for others either, but most people who are healthy have the opportunity to work overtime, work extra and get extra jobs, while for those with poor health there are often limitations on this, both in terms of the type of work you can take, and the opportunity to get it, because unfortunately there are too few employers who will bet on employing people with health problems and disabilities. So the starting point for addressing this debate is real concerns that people have reported with the new system. I hope that we all agree that we don't want anyone to be hit by this new system in such a way that they get trouble, because in that case it will only result in more people having to go to the social office to get help there. There the rules are so strict that if this is a permanent situation, many will even be asked to dispose of the dwelling they have, and they must enter a very uncertain rental market, which is hardly any advantage, neither social nor health, for these people. I would like to urge the Council of State to contribute to seeing if there are any elements in this system that it is possible to look at in retrospect to mitigate some of the effects of the system. I heard he sketched four solutions. There are probably a lot more, including: there are solutions to make the transitional arrangements longer, or to make permanent arrangements to assist those who have the greatest problems in doing so, and to significantly improve the housing support system, so that those who are currently experiencing problems with their building charges are given the necessary help both to obtain and to maintain a good housing. I would like to make it clear that we in SV have been involved in the disaster reform. We were very pleased with the victories we won in connection with it, for example. in the case of child supplements and to receive half-life adjustments to the old-age pension for the disabled. I record that it was the first government decided to remove – good arrangements that are absolutely necessary for those who have no particular choice, and that without this will come into a very difficult economic situation. Then we don't talk about losses of NOK 6000, we're talking about far greater losses for the individual. I record that both it and the cut in the housing stand were the government came along, but they should be praised for having made a transitional arrangement, sail if in our view it was not good enough. I now want to encourage the Council of State and the government to look at this, because through this debate it is quite obvious that the Storting will look at with very positive eyes whether there are proposals for changes that allow some of the effects that we have now seen to be mitigated. Because it has not been desired that the disabled suffer such loss of income as someone has suffered. That is why we have this debate today, and that is why I hope that the Council of State will look at this again, whether he has just confirmed in the reply that he did not see any problem here, that this was exactly the way it was intended, and as I have to assume that the Progress Party and the Government think it should be. I register it, but I also hope that the government will follow up what the Storting has decided, to come back to this. For its part, SV wants to see if we can present our own proposals to mitigate the impact of something we have now seen, and what we have been notified of, because it was not the intention of the conversion that a unanimous collapse was behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e831	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e834	First, the representative, Andersen, was probably not quite right when she was supposed to represent the Council of State. The Council of State was aware that the 2011 decision has been properly followed up, and I have not registered any disagreement with it. On the contrary, the Transitional Councils have improved the 2011 Decision and the Red-Green Government. But I noticed in the representative Andersen said about the children's supplement. She boasted that the Socialist Left Party had received a great victory in the red-green government when it came to the children's supplement. Several of us have followed closely in the media from the inner life of the red-green government, and I thought it was okay to get it confirmed here from this pulpit as well. My question to the representative is: Is it true that the Workers' Party wanted to cut the children's allowance under the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e841	Yes, if the representative goes back to the big public investigation, the NOU, which was the basis for this reform, there was one of the proposals there. When we discussed this in the government, we agreed to keep the child supplement because it was right. I expect that in the debate around the budget now, where the government has proposed to remove this, the representative Wiborg has recorded that all the red-green parties now agree that the children's supplement should be retained, and that the consensus we reached in the government on this is stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e846	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e850	I would like to remind you that the bad reform, or more correctly: the Stoltenberg reform, which was introduced this year, was proposed by the government of Stoltenberg, and it was adopted by a unanimous increase in the previous ageing period, in 2011. It is important to have this overall perspective when discussing the matter, especially in the light of the fact that more people are trying to make it look like this is an unsocial reform that has been introduced by the Right Party government — when it was actually adopted by a unanimous increase. The only critical voice that was when the matter was dealt with a few years ago was that of Robert Eriksson, current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. He warned that many people with debt would get worse, and suggested that a transitional arrangement be established. As the Council of State, he has established such a transitional arrangement, and the blue-blue government has had an impact of 600 million. kr to the scheme. It was important – and it is very important – that we put in place such a transitional arrangement for those who lose a lot of money on the reform. As Lise Christoffersen pointed out in her speech, quoting former labour minister Hanne Bjurstrøm, who said in the then big debate that most will be ‘to a small extent affected by the reform.’ Consequently, there was an understanding that some would be affected a little by the reform, but unfortunately, the Stortinget was not prepared for more people to lose significantly much. The representative Lise Christoffersen also showed that the Workers' Party has received bunkers with complaints about the Stoltenberg reform. We also receive complaints, but I am not quite familiar with Christoffersen's description, because we also receive feedback from those who are actually satisfied – those who get paid more, who are very satisfied that they can also use their residual ability to work a little, so that they get even better out financially and not least socially. I also think some complaints are due to uncertainties about how the disability benefit will be in the future – not that you will actually get significantly less paid, but that you simply do not know exactly what the details of the payments will be. These are complicated issues that many people have had in the course of the debate. There the representative Syversen had a very good point, namely that the information should and should be better. In this context, it is important to be self-critical and learn from this for the future. I am also glad that up-to-date figures show that fewer losses with a new scheme than had previously been assumed. After all, it's over 80 pst. which comes out better or roughly equivalent than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e867	I'm going to start by making an important clarification, and it's that the undersigned is responsible for an article entitled "Fix it, Eriksson!" But when SV says "Fix it, Eriksson," it's not an attempt to simplify the complicated debate we have today. It was a response to what we saw as a very clear discharge of responsibility through quotations such as ‘The reform of the former has nothing to do with today’s government’, as we could read in Tønsberg’s Blade, and also the establishment of concepts such as ‘Stoltenberg reform’, which we hear repeated in this Chamber today. So it's exactly based on the information you get from underlying agencies, that you have the opportunity to grasp the position you're sitting on. It is precisely from the point of view of steering both the hub and the tax rate that the possibility of both smooth implementation and good information lies, and not least in budgetary processes, it is also possible to prioritise enough money to propose good compensation schemes rather than short-term transitional arrangements. That is why we want to draw that up as an alternative in the debate. But I promise full support on behalf of SV for the proposals that had to come to remedy the situation in common, and that is what we want to do with the debate today. The Council of State outlined four possible ways to go, or proposals that could be assessed, and challenged the SV on how much could be a reasonable loss. I'm not sitting on any official work or on good enough numbers to be able to throw out a solution that would hit everyone here today, that is, everyone who's tired. It would be unthinkable to launch something like this. However, for disabled people with very low benefits, losses of SEK 1000 will also be a major asset in a bad economy. Then I record that there are different views about it, about what you think is reasonable for people to cope with. But I have to say that I agree more with the comments of the Progress Party in the handling and handling of the reform than in the submissions I hear today, and let me quote the comments of the Progress Party: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that changes to tax rules do not have to affect current benefits and the effect on the disadvantaged person must be the same.’ That's what I call clear speech. And on the other hand, ‘These members also consider it important to create a conversion model that allows for concrete calculations. These members will announce that they will come back to this question of whether unintended effects should arise and will stress that those converted from the old scheme and thereby increased gross performance should be compensated for maintaining the same net performance and not an approximate equivalent performance.» So once again, I would like to clarify that transitional arrangements are good and important, although SV would like to see that there was a lasting compensation that more clearly struck all those who need it. I am also not convinced that, especially since new examples have only emerged in the debate today that cannot be explained that all unintended effects are adequately monitored. If you were to be forced to relate to the four scenarios, or the directions to go, as the council drew up instead -- I'll reflect a little bit around it. There is no doubt that SV is on the basis of the reform. Nevertheless, I would say that it is more important that less losses than avoiding, for example. that you have to live with parallel systems for relatively few people for a limited time. Then I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that there are probably more solutions in the room than the four that were drawn out, and there is a room that we very much want to explore in layers. In the end, I just want to make it clear that SV has never assumed that plus/minus NOK 6000 was an acceptable loss for disabled people who lost on the conversion of social security and on the underprivileged reform. We, too, were in favour of majority comments and formulations to the effect that the defaults should be approximately equivalent. So I say I don't agree with the reality that I perceive that more people have promoted, or at least the Council of State has promoted earlier, that a loss of plus/minus NOK 6000 should be the basis for what could be considered reasonable. Then I understand that the government needs to put a limit on its own transitional arrangements, but it is something other than saying or believing that it should be the intention of the Stortinge or accepting that such a loss should take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e892	I drew myself late, because I really thought it might be some kind of summary of the debate. Now I see that there are several people left on the list of speakers after I have signed, but I am still trying on some sort of rounding from the Labour Party side. I would like to thank you for a largely factual debate on a question that is very important to many. With regard to those who had a disability pension until the conversion on 1 January 2015, I would like to stress once again, as I did in my first post, that the Workers' Party is of course behind the reform. We do not want to re-examine the reform, but we want one to go deeper into the concrete effects of a look at the reform, which one did not fully understand when the reform was adopted. The reason why that's important is because we're talking about people who have arranged themselves and their lives after the level of performance they've had before the disaster reform was started, that's what they've had after tax. It's like the disabled are in different stages of life, like everyone else, someone has more obligations than others, someone has a responsibility for care, for example. for children. In contrast to most others — or at least less than others — the victim does not have the ability to influence his own income when he/she experiences a fall in the income he/she actually had up to then and expected. That's the things we want to be more detailed. The debate was intended to clarify it, get a more thorough review of what the Stortinge said and meant in the previous period. It's proven that it's been a very difficult exercise, and it just underlines the further complexity of the questions we're talking about. We see some challenges. We can choose to call the unforeseen effects or problems that have been pushed on. I have registered that the Left believes that the review we are asking for is too early to do now. I have also registered that the Christian People's Party wants a screening as soon as possible to see if we are outside the framework that it is reasonable that the individual should cover. I do not think the debate here today has led to a clarification of what the framework really is, whether it is the same for all of us, across parties, or whether each party has its own framework for what one believes is reasonable. I guess once again just emphasize the uncertainty that this is complicated. But, as I said, it has consequences for many, and then we cannot just go around that debate because it is difficult. So what's the reasonable thing that the individual has to figure out to cover on his own coat? Yes, it is at least not possible for the undersigned to answer here and now, and from the point of view of the debate, more than I have had problems with it. Plus/minus NOK 6000 has been mentioned, but I have not experienced that someone has actually gone to the barricades to defend the safety of a loss of NOK 6000 – perhaps apart from the Council of State, who suggested that NOK 500 could be manageable for most people. The Council of State in its statement stressed the uncertainties of everyday life and the need to clear up road uncertainties. He stressed the need for good enough information, even asked the question whether the information has been good enough, and answered no. It is different from the answer given to a written question on the same subject to the Council of State at the end of October 2014. Then I got a signature at least saying that the information was as good as it was possible to get it. It is possible that the Council of State feels that it is too bad then – it did not come out clearly from the answer that I was given a short time ago, at least. It was known when we adopted the reform, that someone would come out worse, but I will venture the claim: not how many and how much. The problem with changes in the social security system is that all proposals for reforms are based on type cases. In this tax proposition from the Stoltenberg Government in 2012, which the position here has been thought to be exemplary, but which I have read and seem to be as clear or unclear as the debate here today, reference is made to the example of Karl – he is even named as Karl – with income of 4.5 G and to the example of Kristin, who in the name of equality has income of 8.5 G, to calculate the effects of changes in the tax system. It is Karl and Kristin who base the assumption of how changes in the tax system will turn out. However, that proposition also refers to the need for transitional arrangements and regulatory adjustments that will have to be made. That no one meant that everyone would come out like a new order, is a claim that has been made here today. It's a statement we agree to, but a counterclaim is that no one has been able to say who and how many it is reasonable to get worse. We haven't got that answer here today. Everyone gets vague, just because we don't have a full overview. That's exactly why we wanted the Council of State to come back to the Storting in connection with the revised national budget. I realize that the hope is a little less now. They may have to expect to lubricate themselves with a little more patience after the tax settlement, which will come in a year. But I'm still left with some questions about what we can expect coming then, in a year's time, because the Council of State has already said that there are only four solutions here, and none of them are acceptable. There are no solutions on the Council's own responsibility; it is just housing support. I mentioned in my first post that we have sent a written question to the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, Question No. 780, which we got right before Easter. I also said in my first post that it is a good answer, because the Council of State there indicates that the limit to reporting back changes in income has been raised by NOK 45000 for households with one person, and for those who must have received an even higher gross than that, there are also opportunities to make exceptions. He answers exactly that there are 1,600 households where the change in disability benefit has become important as of January 2015 in terms of housing support, and all of them are well maintained with good information and are also asked to submit income information. State Council Sanner also points out that he is coming back to Stortinget with suggestions on how to deal with those who will notice this further after 1 July 2016, so it is to the extent that a matter that seems reasonable and decided, and there is not so much more to pick up there. Some people experience lower housing support, as the Council of State Sanner says in his reply to us, but he says that the reduction or the loss is due to other conditions than the underprivileged reform, so that opportunity is in a way exhausted, as I read it. In the end, I only have a few comments on what has been said about transitional rules. I mentioned that in this tax proposition from the Stoltenberg government there was also a question of transitional arrangements. I've read through the 2011 setting. There are some proposals from the Progress Party there, but I do not find any proposal for transitional rules that the red-green majority voted against. On the other hand, when the proposal on transitional rules was presented in the 2015 budget, the Labour Party supported that proposal, but, like SV, we said we have a feeling that it is not good enough. So, in the context of the 2015 budget, we asked – and we asked for it in writing – for an assessment of whether to make the arrangements permanent and how to do so. There is at least one issue that can be addressed already in the revised national budget, and I hope the Council of State agrees with us on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e918	In order to be absolutely sure of something, in order to be able to say something with certainty, you either have to know everything about it or nothing about it. That's why I think we should at least be able to see the whole of the consequences, both the intentional ones and any unintended ones, before talking about major changes in decisions that were made four years ago. I'm not saying that to be a system defense. It is also remarkable how easy it is to be on the house. That's something we have to take care of, all of us, but I'm not saying it to be a system defense, I'm saying it because we have to see the consequences together in order to be able to make good judgements. But what we can do, and what we're going to do, is take with us the experiences that several representatives have said that we've got, in the work on. What do you definitely take with you? Well, one is information. A decision has been taken with intentions that everyone can support, and the reform was unanimously adopted on the proposals of the Red-Greens. So the system makes itself clear to prepare for implementation, and then you forgot something very important: to give good information to those who are going to live with the changes. It is a reminder that the satisfaction of the system is not necessarily the same as a satisfactory situation. And that's pretty amazing. We're in a catpen if it's too hard to send letters it's possible to understand, about changes in legislation to people being subject to the changes. The other thing we can take with us is that simplification can be difficult. It should be a lesson with all the new measures we put in place – really, it shouldn't even be a lesson, it should be latent here – that they are simple and possible to deal with. The situation with the old system was unsustainable. It didn't just have one attempt to get into it – no, you had to try it two or three times to get it somewhere under the skin. Then you can imagine what it's like to live with it. Changing the difficult is demanding. Finally, I would like to link some comments to the disability in general. The disability benefit shall be there for all those who need it. It should provide security and financial space for people who cannot work, or for those who can only work a little. We know that there are many people who want to combine it with work. There was also some reason to wish for this reform. At the same time, we must bear in mind that disability for many is an end-station in a protective structure. Some have been treated well on the road to disability, others have not been treated fully as well. Some people get bad luck fast, others get it after a long time. Some people get it without being properly informed. An example I heard about not long ago was one who got it without knowing that she would get it, and without even believing that she needed it. Others wait too long and are in vain for a decision they might have received in the past. Nav gives up some early, others have to wait too long on Nav. Some people become a bad conscience that lies in a pile of paper, and then maybe that's just how you feel too – like paperwork. It's hard to find the balance of this safety net, i.e. when it's going to be a network, and when it's going to be a trampoline. I think it is very good that we have had this debate on the effects of the under-reform, but we need to be better off having an ongoing debate on our welfare system – how it turns out as a whole, and how it turns out for the individual. And the discussions should be cross-political rather than party-political, cooperating rather than polarising. Norway is consensus-oriented, including in terms of policy. The consensus tradition has given us some results we can be very proud of. But consensus can also be dangerous, and we have to remember to challenge ourselves and each other on the things we agree on, as well as the things we disagree on. If I'm going to relate it back to what's today's text, I'd say, let's not forget that the bad reform was unanimous. If what is unanimous, party politics should no longer be part of the equation. It should characterize this discussion This is how we can meet together what may be unintended consequences, much more powerful than what we do if the blocks are against each other. It is not we who are important, but the responsibility we have. It can also be a lesson.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e939	I also want to have some closing words, and I want to say that I think we have had a very nice debate. It is important that we take the recordings that have been made in the wake of the implementation of the under-reform, seriously, for the changes concern people and people's lives, and that is something we should take seriously. I feel confident that the government is doing just that and follow up the consensus that was reached with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the implementation of the reform, and I want to quote again: «in order to take account of unforeseen developments related to the unforeseeable reform and changes in the level of compensation, the government should follow closely the consequences and, where appropriate, return to the Storting in an appropriate manner if the arrangements for the defaulting regime and the implementation of the transitional rules so provide. ‘... [[...]] I feel that the government and the state councils do. There is no one in the debate who has suggested that we want a rematch on the reform. Everyone has said that you are behind it and that you agree that the reform is right. It is important not to lose sight of the purpose of our common reform: new disability benefits the opening up of more flexible adaptation to work, which will be a win-win situation both for individuals and for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e953	What made me take the floor was part of what the representative Dag Terje Andersen said from the pulpit. Let me be clear: what he sees as a discharge is something I do not know about. The representative Bergstø has in a glittering way referred to a note from 2011. I'd like to repeat it: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that changes in tax rules do not have to affect current benefits and the effect on the disadvantaged person must be the same. Furthermore, these members consider it important to provide a conversion model that allows for concrete calculations.’ Why ‘concrete calculations’? Yes, because it was already stated at the time that it was difficult to obtain concrete calculations – it was informed to Stortinget that it was difficult to obtain concrete calculations. In addition, it stated: ‘These members will notify that they will come back to this question as to whether unintended effects would arise and will stress that those converted from the old scheme and thereby increased gross performance should be compensated for maintaining the same net performance and not an approximate equivalent performance.’ We have done so far and taken responsibility for it when we came up with the transitional regime. We were alone in this room in 2011 to order the government then to come back if there were unintended effects. It is tempting to ask the question, as some representatives of the government parties have done: why was it not for that comment in 2011 but suddenly for it today? We have not received an answer to that during this debate. I have not intended to believe that it is a disclaimer to follow up what you said when you dealt with the matter in 2011. I am proud that we have put in place a transitional arrangement. It is a little interesting to note that the party SV – who did not join that comment – when you show responsibility and follow up the transitional regime, brings it to the Stortinget and gets it adopted, all of a sudden it thinks it is too bad: it is not good enough, you should want a better system. That is what was said by the chair of the representative, Bergstø. I also want to remind you that we all have a common responsibility to make this work. It's a little interesting, when you see the figures that have been published, also in the letter to the Committee dated 23 March, for this debate, that I have still not received anything clear and concrete from the representative Christoffersen on what more is wanted in addition to the information that we have given as of today. What else can we get out, based on the last equations, that are projected in the 2015 numbers? We do not want new numbers to be revised in 2015. As I said in my post, I think most people who get a reduction of $500 a month, will make it. We talk about the fact that in the case of couples who lose up to NOK 5000 a year, they have 75 pst. of their benefits up to NOK 800000 or more, as stated in the letter sent to Stortinget. As for what Andersen's representative refers to, that there are some people who can lose NOK 20 000, the largest individual group of those who lose NOK 20 000 in a couple relationship with a household income of more than 1 million. kr. When the representative Bergstø says that we need to find a permanent arrangement – not a temporary arrangement, but a permanent arrangement – to allow them to deduct their debt deductions, I believe that the transitional arrangement that we have put on the table is a good one. It is those with the best economy who will have the greatest opportunity to change income. That's my starting point. But that's the group SV long wanted to screen. In that case, it is a new policy of redistribution from the Party SV. Finally, I would like to remind you that I agree with all those who have stated in this room that for the lonely, disqualified person with the minimum performance and who has a caretaker responsibility, you want to make sure that the kids have as good and safe an upbringing as all the other kids. I remember that those who get better out of the new arrangement, after all, are the minimum pensioners, with the minimum benefit, with debts that they now have the opportunity to deduct from the tax. They're one group of the 188 000. There are low and medium-time unearned people who receive occupational pensions, who get better out, who suffer from child supplements, who have such a low performance that they get the child supplement, just to ensure that the kids get the football shoes that the representative Bergstø asks for, they are with classified disability, with a lower disability rate than two thirds, and there is a low rate of disability on the special supplement. That was something I thought was important for the representative Andersen: to make sure that those with the lowest incomes should not get out worse. It turns out they're coming out better. I believe that this is an important element of the reform. It's been a success, and I'm glad. And then finally, I want to show that there's about 188 000 coming out better, and about 11,000 of them are going out with 30,000 kroner or more than they had before. 82,000 comes out with $6,000 or less than they used to. The largest group that gets worse gets from one penny to 2,000 dollars less. They're almost 50,000. We're going to present what the Storting asks us, we're going to follow the decisions the Storting imposes on us, and we're going to show responsibility and do it responsibly. In terms of what figures, what information and what groupings it is now not known – what you think is not well enough answers to, what you want to review, and what you need to investigate more, it is important to know what you need to investigate before starting an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e989	It is quite right that it was important for SV to get a good distribution profile on the disability benefit, and that we got them lifted with the least income. Now that they're coming out better, that's good. I think we all agree on that – I haven't heard anyone disagree with it. Of course, there is no heart cause for SV to fight in order that those with the highest income should always keep it. The problem now is that we get some examples where there are others who lose income — and a lot of income — on the conversions that have been made, and where it is very difficult to figure out what is really the cause. It could have a lot of reasons, and more have been involved. I just need to say it, because I hear that the council is trying to ride two horses. He doesn't want to take full responsibility for the reform, so he's really very much in charge of the reform, and then the reform is very good, and the effects are good – and everything that's not good, there's someone else responsible for it. What SV is asking for now is first of all: we are going to make some concrete proposals to try to correct some of this. The second is that we ask the Council of State and the government to look at these results when they come, to see if there may be any changes we can make to avoid such unintended, great effects for anyone. There's nothing but what we're asking for, precisely because the surprise was great for many of us when part of these examples came, and because some of them still have to be explained. And it's not about people with incomes in the million class at all. I would also like to remind you that there is no one on disability who has such incomes, and that, of course, people who have disability should also be regarded as seafaring persons with their own income. If you are married or not, you decide – to put it that way – and that should not be the basis for looking at pension income. It is a matter that the Progress Party has been very concerned about before, and that I hope in principle they will continue, so that the disability you have will be linked to the person and not to whether you are married or not. Then we have to look at the effects on the person even in those cases where he is married and perhaps has a spouse or cohabitation with high income. That's the compensation of the individual human being and whether there's been changes in the one that's unreasonable, we have to look at. Then again, I would encourage the government to bring about changes in housing support already revised. It is necessary, so that no more people have problems having a safe home.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1002	I wasn't going to take the floor after our main figure Lise Christoffersen had a good summary of the debate, seen from our side. I certainly did not intend to take the floor after the representative Bente Stein Mathisen summarized from the Right. I think we have had a debate that proves to a very great extent that the parties in Stortinget are moving in the same direction in view of what the representative Mathisen quoted – the wish that the effects of the reform be closely followed. It was quoted in her last post, and I can give my full support to it. Then it comes up again that the Workers' Party must have voted against you doing something with those who have a lot of debts, and the consequences for them. It's completely wrong, there's no such proposal in the proposition to which it refers. The fact that parties have their own particular comments does not mean that all parties are opposed to everything a party has in its particular comments. It'll be too unprofessional to mention the Great Britain's form of work. So the Council of State – despite the fact that the Storting is quite clear that this is what we want to follow closely – says that there is nothing new to be included in the revision, there are no new figures. Well, there's new numbers, there's new numbers every month for those who get paid their disability benefit. Some of them have come to realize that they have a tax credit today that, after actually like tax, they will get some money back. That's a new information. Some have also adjusted their tax cards to that. So new information is getting away from those people who actually receive disability benefit, and if you are interested in following the development of those people and listening to their experience, there may be more answers in the revised, perhaps even answers that require some drama, which is an explanation – but it comes every month. I mentioned permanent work as an example. I don't think most people have thought that the purpose of the reform was for them to pay with maybe NOK 20-30 per hour in addition to the social security, but one was clear from Stortinget's point of view that at least it should not affect the disability benefit, when VTA was last discussed in that context. That's why I think a total staggering – that's my impression after the summaries that have been here – is interested in continuing to follow what is happening, and that it will be natural, from the Stortinge's point of view, that it is also mentioned in the context of the revised budget. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about information. Also I was, in my first post, aware that it has been poor in relation to the recipient's need for information, and in part confusing. There have been several people involved. But I think there might be something else that led to much more uncertainty about the introduction of the form from 1 January, in the period before New Year, and the many enquiries we also received, namely that the government proposed a cut of NOK 28 000 per child in the children's supplement. It scares people. The government's proposal to remove the favorable estimate of the survival adjustment for disabled people who are going to retire scares people. Clearly, the possibility of a car being weakened for those who do not have a school or a job scares people who are in the same group who are on the threshold of a new reform. I think we should also take that with us as part of the communication they have received, as well as that the information should have been better from the public authorities to inform. My impression of the debate is essentially that all parties on the Stortinget are behind a reform that all parties on the Storinget are going to engage further in the follow-up of, and accept information from those who are recipients of the benefits that we are talking about here, taking their situation seriously. I choose to interpret the result of the first section 22 discussion as positive, despite the last articles of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1017	I think this was clarifying and reassuring from the representative Andersen, because it is right that changes will be made for each month in paid disability benefits if you change the tax card. I then see that what the Workers' Party is asking for from this debate in the context of the revised national budget is an overview of how many people have contacted the tax rate and asked for a new tax card and then changed their tax rate, because there is a new information for the individual. That is what Andersen is actually standing on the platform and asking for revision. In that case, there is a new information to be reviewed and it may be difficult to obtain that information. Then I agree that it is important to follow developments continuously. It is important to look at whether there are things that need to be changed. That is why, as I have said repeatedly from this pulpit, the government is following developments continuously and following up the majority comment of the Stortinget. It is also important to look at the second moment that Andersen's representative addresses, which is not an unknown situation, but which it is important to follow closely in terms of how it turns out, namely the one with bonus pay for VTA. It's one of the things that we also have on the block, and we also follow that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1026	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1040	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of six lines in response to statements by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1047	It has been a cross-political desire for many years to transfer more goods to maritime transport, both to exploit the capacity of the various transport years and to obtain even more environmentally friendly transport. The majority of the Committee on Transport will now have to implement a number of measures precisely in order to give the various actors the opportunity and freedom of choice to choose to drive more goods by sea while maintaining their competitiveness. Here the Committee will use the national port strategy issued earlier this year and presented, while using different incentives and other mechanisms to move even more goods across the sea. The recently submitted Freight Analysis shows that very much of the transport work is already carried out on ships today. What is important, however, is that the further growth in the volume of transport is largely covered by maritime transport. The majority of the Committee would like to see the formal role of the Coastal Agency strengthened. The task of the coastal works is to further develop the maritime infrastructure and to facilitate maritime transport, which is an integral part of a forward-looking transport system. We also want the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to administer a new port cooperation grant scheme aimed at stimulating ports to make better use of the infrastructure, which may lead to lower unit costs for freight by sea. The majority of the Committee would also like to see a comprehensive review of the charging and charging policy for short sea shipping in order to improve and simplify the framework conditions for short sea shipping. The government has reduced the Green Tax Commission, which will complete its work by 1 December 2015, and it is natural that we see this in the context of the factors emerging there. The Committee would also like the government to examine different incentive schemes to enable companies to choose to use maritime transport rather than land transport, and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The Committee also wants to stimulate the increased use of low-emission technologies in the short sea shipping fleet and therefore asks the government to come back to Stortingen with an assessment of how we can stimulate this. An investigation has been carried out into a wreckage scheme and is now under review in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. A wreckage system can stimulate fleet renewal. It is therefore desirable for the government to consider the introduction of a temporary ship wreck order – and already in the next state budget. It is important that Norwegian shipping and our neighbouring countries have equivalent framework conditions. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping, the Committee calls on the Government to assess the different framework conditions. The depreciation rates for ships must also be considered. Finally, on the basis of the NTP Freight Analysis report, I would like to mention that there are grounds for transferring millions of tonnes of goods from road to ship and track, and this will once again be able to free up capacity on the roads. The above-mentioned measures the Committee asks the government to assess and assess will enable businesses to have both the freedom of choice and the best use of the capacity for the transport of goods, and this will in turn strengthen competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1068	Together with the big business representatives Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Else-May Botten and Terje Aasland, I have been able to make representations on more goods at sea. Here we suggested that the Stortinget should ask the government to put forward a case on how the short sea shipping strategy could be followed up with concrete measures, with effective ports, more climate-friendly solutions and changes in fees and charges that could strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. On the same day, a representative from the Christian People's Party also made a proposal on measures to move more freight from land to sea. For the Committee, it would then be natural to see these proposals in context and to deal with them collectively. I think it is very good that there is now a joint committee that is behind the recommendation, with seven proposals for Roma speech decisions. These are proposals for decisions, all of which – and not least in terms of total and cooperative – will be important steps towards strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport when it comes to goods. And I would like to thank the case-speaker, Kari Raustein, for having released the committee until this deal, and not least I would like to thank the committee member, Hans Fredrik Grövan, who is a co-rapporteur for the Christian People's Party's proposal, and who has contributed very constructively to the process, which is now culminating in the proposal of seven Roman Catholics to strengthen maritime transport. There can be no doubt that the size of this decision will give much clearer guidance on what is going to happen in this field than the government has previously committed itself to. It is important that we have a transport rate attached to the seaway that works as optimally as possible. This is also the case for proposals for decisions I important, where the Government asks the Government to strengthen its formal role as a transport agency, in order to improve the competitiveness of maritime transport, in accordance with national transport priorities for the transfer of goods from land to sea. The government's recently submitted port strategy should be a tool for more efficient ports and for increased freight transfers. In addition to the closure of the designated ports, this strategy does not contain other concrete measures. It is therefore good that, in the proposal for Decision II, the Stortinget now asks the Government to present measures to improve the efficiency of ports and port terminals, to move more heavy goods transport from road to sea and, at the same time, to give short sea shipping a more central role in the national transport plan. The proposal for Decision III asks the government to present a holistic review of the charging and charging policy in maritime transport, with a view to improving and simplifying the framework conditions for short sea shipping. It would be natural to see this work in conjunction with the follow-up of the Green Tax Commission, and the aim of moving goods from road to sea must then be decisive for each reduction. The management of NTP 2014–2023 by the Stortinge was supported by the Short Sea Shipping Strategy, where one of the key actions was an attribution scheme for the transport of goods by sea. In the Ministry’s letter of reply, there is no enthusiasm for such an incentive scheme, and I am therefore glad that a single increase in the size of the decision today calls for a temporary system of transfers of goods to companies that are good at using maritime transport rather than land transport. Given the green shift, shipping is a very important player. Therefore, it is good that we now, in the proposal for Decision V, ask the government to come back with an assessment of how it can be stimulated to increase the use of low-emission technology in the short-sea fleet. This, together with the proposal for Decision VI to assess the introduction of a temporary ship wreckage regime in the context of the 2016 State Budget, means that maritime transport can become even more «environmental condition» in the future. Finally, the proposal for Decision VII calls for an assessment of shipping also in our neighbouring countries, in order to facilitate an equivalent framework. The debate here and the seven Roma proposals we are going to adopt will not only give more goods at sea, but I have good faith in, and I expect that there will be strong direction and speed for the important processes we are facing, which are work on maritime strategy work on the 2016 government budget on the work of the Green Tax Commission on new port and maritime law and, in particular, work on national transport plan
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1108	As part of the work on the national transport plan, a separate sample has been set up to analyse the freight flows. An interim report was submitted at the end of February. It shows that maritime transport has a greater share of freight than has been shown by previous and available statistics and that it is the dominant mode of transport both domestic and to and from our country. It is a pleasure, as maritime transport is both a safe and environmentally friendly alternative to the transport of goods over long distances. At the same time, the interim report shows that there is a potential for the transfer of between 5 million and 10 million tonnes of goods from road to sea or track, and that such transfer will require concrete and targeted action. The sample producing the freight analysis will provide its final report for the summer. We welcome this report with excitement. It will provide us with a better basis for understanding freight flows and not least what measures will have the greatest impact on creating more efficient and environmentally friendly freight transport in both the short and long term. The government has already taken significant steps to create healthier conditions of competition in road transport through increased controls, stricter sanctions and by ensuring that foreign operators also comply with Norwegian rules and pay for the use of the road. This means a fairer competitive situation in road transport, but also a fairer competitive situation for road transport and other modes of transport, such as: maritime transport. Over time it will help to strengthen the relative competitiveness of maritime transport. The Government of Solberg decided to move the Swedish Coastal Agency to the Ministry of Transport. It was precisely to strengthen the Coastal Network as a transport centre and to integrate maritime transport more strongly into a comprehensive transport strategy. There is an approach that will improve coordination and focus on the role of maritime transport in prioritising projects at national level. The government has already demonstrated, through the budgets for 2014 and 2015, both the willingness and the ability to devote sufficient funds to the development of the fairway. Earlier this year, the government presented its port strategy. A strategy will never be static and must be followed up by concrete measures. The Government terminated the system of so-called designated ports and the rates of development of the master network port. A good port structure will require increased cooperation and concentration of goods in efficient ports. The 2015 budget provides funds to stimulate increased port cooperation. In the work on the national transport plan, it is important to build up the core networks as the important logistical nodes they are, and the associated infrastructure. At the same time, it is important to ensure diversity and the different functions provided by ports in Norway. A large part of our ports are not major transport ports, but have important functions for the community and the regions they serve. The government has stated on several occasions that it will assess the level of fees and charges for maritime transport. In 2014, a new Loslaw was adopted. It provides a more flexible and comprehensive opportunity for the use of evidence of fairway, which could reduce the cost level of many actors. The government signaled in the proposition that it will assess the level of charges associated with the unloading, including the unloading emergency charge. It is natural that the importance of the overall level of fees and charges will be assessed in the context of the government’s maritime strategy and, of course, also in the context of the Green Tax Commission, which will present its report on 1 December 2015. Fee policy has two important aspects. It has an impact on the level of costs and hence on the competitiveness of maritime transport, and it is important to influence environmentally friendly behaviour, for example. in the selection of more environmentally friendly propulsion technologies. An example of this is the scheme of an environmentally-differentiated unloading emergency charge, where ships with more than 50 points of the environmental ship's index receive a discount of 50 pst. The Government Platform provides for the development of a wreckage mechanism to stimulate the replacement of an ageing short-sea fleet. New ships will mean better profitability in a long-term perspective, but also more environmentally friendly vessels. The investigation into the wreckage scheme was handed over in January, and it is natural that the government makes its concrete assessments in the preparation of the maritime strategy and the budget for 2016. More goods from road to sea are mainly about strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport. A grant scheme for the carriage of goods by sea was proposed in the near-ship strategy of 2013. I have to admit that I am probably somewhat skeptical as to whether such a scheme can contribute to a sustainable transfer of goods from road to sea, or whether there are other instruments that can be equally effective and that can have a more permanent effect at a lower cost, for example. tax reductions. Nevertheless, it would make sense, as the Committee now puts it, to examine the arrangements more closely and to look at them in the context of other instruments. The ambition of more goods from road to sea is a common objective of an overall committee and of an overall increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1131	The approach we have to treatment today is an important step towards moving up towards maybe 10 million tons of goods or 200,000 trailers away from our roads. Moving goods from trailers to ships we know gives less wear and tear. Reports from TØI show that it is heavy transport that accounts for almost all wear on Norwegian roads. The result will be better air quality, less pollution and less queues. That we reduce the number of trailers on our roads, also causes fewer deaths and injuries in traffic. Seafaring today covers about 90 pst. of the world's transport needs between continents, while shipping's percentage of the world's CO2 emissions is 2,2 pst. This makes shipping the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly transport option. The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have ended up with a unanimous vote by the Committee, which provides the basis for a number of new measures which, in a good and holistic way, facilitate a more offensive and environmentally friendly freight transport policy. Firstly, we are pleased with the agreement that the Coastal Plant should be strengthened. The National Audit Office's review of the Coastal Works led to a strong criticism of the Coastal Works. They have not responded well enough to the expectations of working to strengthen maritime transport so that larger quantities of goods are carried by ship. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore very important that the Coastal Works should now be strengthened and that short sea shipping should be given a more central place in the NTP. The reorganisation carried out by the Right-wing Party Government from the financial year 2014 onwards by adding the Coastal Agency as part of the Ministry of Transport, we believe that this was an important prerequisite for this to take place. Secondly, there is agreement on a simplified charging and charging policy. Analysis from TØI shows that a reduction in the level of taxation on maritime transport is an important measure to stimulate the increased transfer of transport from land to sea. Thirdly, it is necessary to establish a comprehensive port strategy. The government has presented a new strategy proposal in this area, which now requires the follow-up of concrete actions. In order to facilitate the transfer of more heavy goods transport on ships, ports and the infrastructure around ports need to be built and organised in a way that makes ports good and efficient hubs where sea, road and rail can be met. The industry has for a long time requested a subsidy scheme for the carriage of goods by road to sea. A unanimous committee is now asking the government to implement such a system. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that a three-year temporary subsidy scheme for the transfer of goods to companies that choose to use maritime transport rather than land transport will clearly contribute to the distortion of more goods by sea. Such a grant could only help to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. Furthermore, it is necessary to facilitate the increased use of low-carbon technological solutions at sea. Today's ships will also be in operation in 20-30 years. It is therefore essential that today’s ships be built to meet tomorrow’s environmental requirements. At present there are 50 gas-powered ships operating worldwide, the majority of which are Norwegian. By 2018, a further 69 gas-powered ships have been contracted. There is a high potential for the use of low-emission technologies in the short-sea fleet. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a unanimous committee is asking the government to assess the implementation of a temporary ship wrecking arrangement in the context of the 2016 state budget. A high and rising cost level hampers fleet renewal. For climate, safety and efficiency reasons, it would be wise to encourage the short-sea fleet to be made up of modern ships with the latest technology. It is worth choosing green, and then it must be profitable to use new technologies rather than old ones. Short sea shipping competes in a global market, with tough competition. Therefore, compensatory measures are important for companies that choose the Norwegian flag to ensure that valuable competences are maintained in the country. It is also important that the applicable depreciation rates for ships flying the flag of Norway can be adapted to the European level, which is around 25 pst., while in Norway today there are 14 pst. I would like to pay tribute to all the parties in the committee who have contributed to a unanimous vote, which means that all the parties are behind the seven proposals that have been promoted. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the good work she has done, while also giving tribute to the Labour Party, to the representative of Rommetveit, who has contributed constructively to a unanimous attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1157	The centre party believes that there are two good proposals that have been put together in one position during the committee's proceedings, and we have been able to reach a cross-political agreement on the proposals that exist. I think that's a good thing. There has been a long talk of wanting to transfer goods from road to sea and rail, and here the committee comes up with some proposals that you want to be more precise and want to get into effect towards the development of a national transport plan. It is necessary to move more of the goods from road to sea and rail. We see that road freight is only increasing, and all estimates indicate that it is going to go that way in the future. That means that it's urgent to get wise gripped. There are seven proposals on which the Committee has been set up, on which everyone has an intention to make stronger use of the sea element. It's a road that's always open, that's salted and ready to break -- it's really just to put it into use. Then it's important to look at the framework conditions to get more people to use just that way. The analysis of goods was a good input in terms of looking at where the goods are going, and how to work on it. I think it is an important element of the job to be done in connection with the national transport plan. The short sea shipping strategy inherent in today’s NTP has not been strongly followed by the government, but means are available for cooperation between ports. Cooperation between ports, I think, makes sense, but I also expect a stronger look at how to implement the short sea shipping strategy in a future NTP. I am pleased that an incentive scheme has been chosen that many in the industry have asked us to try, in order to get a stronger transfer of goods. I also think it is important that we focus on low-carbon technology. I think Norway is among those countries that have a high potential to bring new technology. We have ferries going on electric power, we have several experiments that are started on other types of technology, and we have gas, which is in use in several ferry connections today. There is no doubt that this type of technology can also be used in the short sea shipping strategy, and perhaps we can also strengthen the grips of the maritime industry in order to develop more of these types of projects. I am very pleased that we are able to reach agreement on a solution like this today, but we all have to follow up and make sure that there is actually a real policy change that makes more people use the sea route. Then in other kinds of cases, we'll come back to what we should do in terms of the railway. I am very pleased that the railway system now seems offensive in terms of investigating the grips to ensure that we will get more goods on the track as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1172	Thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party for good proposals on concrete measures to increase freight transport by sea and to an overall Committee on Transport and Communications, which takes seriously the recommendations of the National Audit Office in this matter. It is also encouraging to hear the representative Helge Orten from the Right explain a number of good actions that the government has been working on. The Greens support the Committee's recommendation. However, increasing the share of freight transport by sea is not only an objective in itself; it is also an instrument for achieving overall objectives in business development, road safety and not least climate. Just a few hours ago, the news came that Europe's largest oil trade fair, ONS in Stavanger, has been cancelled this year. This is another example of Norway starting to get the burning rush to develop the alternative sustainable business from which our country has to live and people have to work, already in the near future. At the same time, we know that Norway is far behind the GHG cut target adopted by the Storting and is repeating it irresponsibly. It is therefore appropriate that the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament should contribute to the achievement of the agreed but very general and unquantified objectives of increasing the share of freight transport by sea. At the same time, the Committee's position and proposals once again illustrate the core problem of transport, climate and environmental policy, which is the unwillingness towards a coordinated priority in order to achieve overall objectives. The reason why we have not achieved the objective of transporting goods by road to sea is not a lack of action in the Coastal Works, in ports and in shipping. The reason is a transport policy that does not have overall objectives for climate and other things that govern priorities. The reason is a national transport policy that continues to strengthen the competitive advantages of road transport in relation to maritime transport, contrary to what several speakers have called for. The reason is, as the Riksrevision report pointed out, that the State Council and the Ministry did not carry out the transfer of goods from road to sea to a management target in the Department and the Directorate. This confirmed the Minister for Transport without any dikes in his letter of reply to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee last autumn, when he stated that Storting’s good intentions should be interpreted as a vision and an ambition, but not as an independent objective. Just before Easter, in the dark and dark of the night, the Stortinget decided that Norway should seek to join the EU climate policy framework. The most concrete consequence of this will be that for the next 15 years, by 2030, we will have to cut much more into emissions, in the order of 40 pst., and above all in transport. If we are to have the least opportunity to do so, Norwegian transport policy must be geared immediately towards large emissions cuts. This must become a binding management objective, and the transport of goods by road to sea must become a means of achieving that objective. The Greens are therefore promoting three loose proposals today. We are aware that these proposals are late, we are not even in the Committee yet, but we ask the other parties to consider them seriously because they are at the heart of the problem – a committed and planned implementation of adopted policies. The first proposal is that the Stortinget asks the government to ensure that the objective of increased freight transport by sea is part of the governance information between the department and the Coastal Plant. This was the task of the Control and Constitutional Committee to ask for it. The second proposal concerns the need to assess new and large transport projects already planned in the light of the freight transport target. We hope that the same majority who believe that more freight transport by sea and by rail is important for climate, the environment, road safety and industrial development also agree that real transport projects need to be assessed in the light of this. Thirdly, we propose that the free E39 road project should be assessed in the light of the objective of more freight transport by sea. How will this huge project of excellence, in which seven heavy bridges are specifically designed to eliminate freight by sea, have an impact on the goal of more freight transport by sea? It is such clarifications and decisions that determine whether we reach the targets adopted by the Storing. I will bring this up with the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1195	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1198	Neither are we in the Transport and Communications Committee, but we are very involved in transport policy. In general, I can say that we are in favour of action now and not too many words and more New Year's wishes. The red-green short-haul shipping strategy stated that a state back-up scheme for investments in ports would be implemented as a means of transferring goods from road to sea. – We had that in mind when we were in government. I think it is a pity that the Labour Party does not propose this now when we deal with this important matter. If we are to achieve the goal of more goods at sea, we need to invest less money in large road projects. The most important thing is to transfer goods from road to sea without weakening the railway. A large number of Stortinget have in practice contributed to the transfer of goods from sea to road. When hundreds of billions of dollars are invested in motorways and spectacular fjord crossings, the result is road traffic and no fewer vehicle trains on the roads. For example, it is obvious that the Free E39 is currently estimated to cost 268 billion. kr, will go in this wrong direction, and it is not in line with the people's unity. Our most important international connection on the country road is E6 over Svinesund. Every day, there, 2 500 car trains tumbling over the bridge. 65 pst. imports into the Oslo region carry lorries along motorways in Sweden and Norway. 30 pst. come by boat, and only 5 pst. by rail. It has informed us about NHO Logistics and Transport. There's something wrong. The red-green government put 3 billion. kr in the national transport plan for whole new measures and means of transporting goods from road to sea. The current government has reduced this wager. The Progress Party and the Right recently presented a port strategy. The NHO has said about this: ‘It is largely inconclusive and will hardly help to strengthen the competitiveness of ports for the benefit of truck transport. On the contrary, there is a risk of deterioration in maritime transport because the government is calling for a debate on the dissolution or liberalisation of port capital.» It may seem that the government will leave the individual municipality to design its port strategy. Everyone knows it's useless. It is then so important that we take advantage of the opportunity today to make even more effective proposals in this matter. It's interesting to see that we have the NHO on the team, which is in charge of more plan economy. Now is the time for action. We must consistently invest and set up tools that get the goods on track and boat – preferably in combination where possible. I live in the vicinity of the Alnabru terminal. Until the fall of 2013, there was a continuous train and boat line between Alnabru here in Oslo and up to Bodø and by boat to a row of ports northwards to Alta. There were leading plans to invest in new freight boats in a North Norway line. SV work hard with other actors to get this in place. Now there are thousands of vehicle trains on the road network from Fauske and northwards instead of on the coast keel. With a national strategy, this would not have happened. Therefore, the new instrument is needed, for example: a system to which the government currently has been negative, but to which all maritime transport operators have high on the agenda: an incentive system for collective maritime freight – which is over-ripe. An incentive scheme for ships was introduced into the short sea shipping strategy of the red-green government, which is a follow-up to the NTP. Everyone who works with goods on a boat wants such an arrangement. Then we have to have an offensive port policy, and we believe that with a long-term commitment we can get a lot more goods across the sea and on the track. Unfortunately, there is not enough to be found in this matter. The Nature Conservation Association has produced reports showing how one can get 200,000 fewer trailer loads per year away from the roads. We must also invest in the Climate Technology Fund. Now it's the way we're not in the committee. We would therefore like to welcome the proposals tabled by the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European So I hope that the rest of the hall will also join in on this important matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1233	Let me say thank you to the committee and to the rapporteur for a good case. This is an important topic and a part of the overall transport policy with which growth and government – reasonable enough – work. Not least a big thank you to the Christian People's Party, which has led in the pen many of the proposals that the Committee is now putting forward. There has been a very good work, and I am glad that there has obviously been a good cooperation between the majority parties on the Stortinget to get a text that has received unanimous support in the Stortinget. It is important that we use our various transport solutions in the best possible way in our work. Connecting road, rail and shipping together means that we can carry more goods over long distances, use the infrastructure better and reduce both energy consumption and environmental impact. We also see that all forecasts indicate that there will be even more freight being transported around this country in the future. Then it is also important that we use the infrastructure that is, in an efficient and good way. It's in the government's platform, and it's also in what Stortinget now decides. These are clear signals that one stands together about a lot of what is happening. The background to many of these proposals is, as we remember, that last year we discussed the criticism of the short sea shipping strategy that had been pursued from 2009 to 2013. Some of the points pointed out by the National Audit Office were that since 2009, the share of domestic maritime freight transport has been declining, that there were clear weaknesses in the work of the Coastal Agency to promote the transfer of goods from road to sea, weaknesses in the role of the Coastal Works as a transport establishment, etc. It was obvious that this area, which everyone thinks is important, was not well organized in the time that was, and that the Riksrevision was looking at. That's why it's very gratifying that the Storting is so united about what a person wants to do, because that means that we have to do things different from what we've done before, if we're going to achieve the goals that everyone here is saying is a strength or support. Strengthening the flow of transport in a free world means that we must try to influence the decisions made by each transport operator, the individual owner of the goods. This means that we need to ensure that costs are properly reflected, that the cost of road freight is properly reflected, that we also ensure that the modes of transport desired are more used – such as rail and shipping – and stimulated in different ways. As has been mentioned in some of the previous submissions, we have taken several steps in which we tighten up road transport in order to get more real costs from trucks, both through technical requirements, through several checks, through bombs, etc. In addition, the short sea shipping strategy is important. We're working on it. We have already made changes to the unloading system. We have put forward a national port strategy, to which some in the NHO system have been critical, but I note that very many port representatives have been in local media and said that this offers great opportunities. I choose to listen to the diversity that speaks out. But I also record that someone is not quite satisfied, and that means that we still have a job to do. The important thing here is that now we have a national port strategy. That's the first of its kind. I am very proud that we started that work and have put it in place, so we have something to do with. We have made changes to the Coastal Plant as a transport unit – what the Riksrevision criticised, and with which we are supported in proposals here to continue working. I am happy to have it pushed in my back and clapped on my shoulder – we can say it is combined. I remember that although SV is dissatisfied with the appropriations, there is actually a growth in the appropriations for the Coastal Plant on 16 p.m. in the budget adopted by the majority. It's a pretty strong growth. Then you get to stand up in the lawn together with the National Auditorate and complain about what things have been like. But I think we're at least going in the right direction as to what it's going to be like. We have said in national port strategy that we need to simplify the port structure. We must cultivate transport policy objectives in port policy. This is one going on. We have notified grant schemes to stimulate port cooperation in order to bring about the competitiveness of maritime transport. We see that in very many ports today there is a significant overcapacity. This means that it is not necessarily the infrastructure itself that is the problem, but there are cost structures. Making ports and shipping more cost-effective is important. Cooperation is one, but also to look at charging structures and cost structures. We have received several investigations that look at different things, and at goods analyses. We now have an ongoing investigation on green shipping, which could help to optimise the structure of port and shipping charges in the future, precisely to make the use of port and shipping more economically profitable than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1254	I believe that the Council of State is very clear that he and the government will comply with the agreed national transport plan, but also that they will overcomply with him. On the sea side I have also understood it so that the current government will follow the short sea shipping strategy, which came as part of the current NTP. Here it was added that 3 billion were to be spent in the ten-year period – or 300 million. kr a year, if a share it evenly – to strengthen maritime transport. In this year's budget, I see that only 10 million have been budgeted. to an incentive scheme to stimulate port cooperation. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it willing in the department and in the government to use the funds that the Storting has seen to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1261	First, I have to remind you that the national transport plan is not an ad hoc plan. There is a plan that outlines different costs and how one should prioritise in the future. Then it's up to Stortinget every year in the state budget to grant the money. I am very proud that in the state budget adopted by the majority of today for 2015, we are overcoming the average national transport plan framework by about 1 billion. kr, as opposed to the budget submitted by the red-green government before their departure, which sub-completed the national transport plan by 4.5 billion. kr. We have accelerated many of the fairway projects in the national transport plan. So there's a lot going on here. As far as the tax regime is concerned, we have said that we need to look at it in order to stimulate more goods on shipping. This is part of the tax selection report that has come to the Ministry of Finance, which we are going to follow up, and that is where it is natural to come back to it. But we've already reduced some of the charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1268	We see 10 million. kr in the budget. However, in its joint comments on ‘NTP Freight Analysis, Interim Report 1, Monitoring and Understanding of Problems’, the Committee points out that this report shows that there are grounds for transferring several million tonnes of freight from road to ship and to rail, which will also release road capacity. Is there anything that the Council of State might have intended to have done differently in the course of the sixteenth year he has run the department, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1273	I'm very pleased with a lot of what we've done so far. I should have liked to have seen some processes go faster, but when we look at the Riksrevision's framework criticism of what we took over – that is, what happened from 2007 to 2013, where the proportion went down, and one thought that there was poor management of the transport sector in the Coastal Works – moving the Coastal Works to the Ministry of Transport, away from the Ministry of Fisheries, is an important step. Making a national port strategy, implementing the pilot project, is an important step forward. Making funds available for better port cooperation is an important step forward. Then I would like to see that we had gone even further in the tax and tax regime, but here we have been waiting for investigations that have now come, and then we can go further, based on what the trade reports have said, what professionals have recommended to us. So based on the fact that we've had 17.5 months, I believe that we've done a lot of things that will remedy the criticism that the Riksrevision brought against the situation that was when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1280	I intend to challenge the Council of State to participate in a bit of high thinking. I believe that, like the undersigned, the Council of State is concerned with technology, and we know that there is a need to renew the fleet. Some of them are very good, and some of them are starting to be of poor quality. How are we going to make use of more low-carbon technology in our short-sea shipping fleet – have the Council of State thought about it? Is there any grip that is imminent? Is there a strategy that we can build up under in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1285	Thank you for a great theme. I think it's very exciting to think loudly about both ship technology and shipping in general. I myself have a background from the shipping company, so I can share this with you. I just want to remind you that in 2014 I asked Transnova to prioritise subsidies for short sea shipping for the use of LNG and other environmentally friendly energy sources. In the Coastal Agency's fees for 2015, we have provided an extra discount for environmentally friendly ships. Using economic incentives to get shipowners and carriers to choose environmentally friendly solutions I think is an important tool. Then we have to look at the clusters we have. We have a complete cluster within shipping in Norway – from shipping companies and seafarers to carriers, designers, shipyards and equipment suppliers – that makes us in a quite unique situation by helping it to further develop more environmentally friendly ships. It is a bit of the job that is now being done in cooperation between the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1294	It is very good that the whole Storting is gathered in this case. There are seven concrete measures to be addressed today. After all, state councils have gathered everything about transportation, in one department. Goods analysis shows that there are ambitions and opportunities to collect between 5 million and 10 million tonnes by sea. What are the progress plans when the Council of State now sees that the Storting has gathered to do this? How fast can the measures get, and what the economy is that you see fit to use if you spend 10 million. kr this year? How can you stimulate using the three billion? kr actually in the NTP, for freight by sea? How is that priority now the closest time – the nearest six months and the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1301	Firstly, I will again boast of the seven concrete measures that lie here. Everyone was probably taken from the Christian People's Party's representative proposal, and it's very good that a whole big deal is behind them. Many of them will also be found in different variants in the government statement and in the Nydalen unity between the four non-socialist parties. Here are some things that have already been done, as I have mentioned – los reform, national port strategy, cooperation in the ports. Then there are some things that are in the cool. The Tax Committee has now submitted its investigation, and there is an ongoing investigation that will come during 2015 on green taxes. As I mentioned to the previous questioner, there is a cooperation across many departments to get a more green shipping. So here, there's going to be things on continuous tapes. Some of this has been dependent on external investigations, and this is due to political cooperation between the majority parties. So there's no reason for you to sit and wait for individual things far ahead of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1308	Now there's seven concrete points here. We have the entire charging system; you have to clean up the system that's there. We have the Coastal Works, which you can look at and review how can be, and how the payment should be for the shipowners. There are «ecobonus» and wreckage arrangements – there are many things that are quite slippery. Then it is important for us in the Storting to know when the Council of State intends to introduce these arrangements, which are important, and how to put it up for the next round in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1313	Budgetary treatments come at regular intervals. It is a revised budget that we now have, and then we have the budget for the harvest, so it is possible that things will happen when the budget is promoted. We have announced a lot of measures. I've rammed them up now, and it's natural that they're coming along. It is also very good to have the proposals of the Christian People's Party confirmed. I am very pleased that the parties who put in government, who got a full criticism from the Riksrevision, now believe that these are sensible measures. Today's majority has now ruled in approx. 17 months. We have done a great deal in the 17 months, with a national port strategy, with a pilot scheme – with the measures that have been promoted. I know that there is impatience after even more is to be done, because you had the wrong course for many years. I am pleased that a good majority is now supporting a course in which many actions will be implemented. I have mentioned them, and they are also in the government's response to both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party's representative proposals. So there shouldn't be any uncertainty about what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1323	I haven't really asked a single question about what the Council of State has done, but about what the Council of State should do. And I ask again: how is progress in the measures outlined and adopted unanimously today? What do you see is the fastest way to get done, and can you deliver on this together? The Ministry of Transport is responsible for this now, and the responsible Council of State is standing here, so it is interesting to hear the progress plan of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1328	As I've mentioned a number of times, there's a context in what we're doing. I have been asked by the representative of the Central Party about things, I have been asked by the Workers' Party, and I have said that we have started a lot of actions. We have launched a reorganization of the sector just to bring together responsibility. It chose the previous government and didn't ask questions, and that was some of the Riksrevision's criticism. We have started a work to look at the tax structure, and there has been a tax sample at work. The committee has now delivered its report. There will be a revised budget, and there may be something. There will be a budget for the harvest, and then you will have a review of the arrangements. We're looking at how we work with ports. It's a national port strategy, and there we'll get input from different actors. We will go through and make sure that the money that has been allocated is spent in ports to stimulate better cooperation just to get more people to use shipping as a transport pattern. So when I both show what we've done, and mention what we're going to do, it's to show that in just 17 months we've started a series of actions, and we're going to do a lot more in the future. Over the course of these four years, we're going to get a lot of supplies and a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1337	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1342	This is an important matter for very many people. If there is a concern about environmental policy, there is an involvement in this matter. If you are engaged in business development, you are concerned about this matter. And is a busy road safety, one is also engaged in this matter. For this is a very comprehensive case, which affects a lot of areas. Along the coast, this has been a theme for a very long time. There's a lot of talk about it, and that also means that it's important to many people. That's why it's good that we've added 3 billion. kr in the national transport plan to ensure that we get more goods on the keel, and therefore it was quite disappointing, I think it was only 10 million. kr that came into the 2015 state budget. But you can choose to look very lightly at this, because when you deal with this matter today with so much consensus, it's important that we remember it when we're going to deal with what's going on in the state budget. Then it is important that we be careful to add enough money to this. The order is quite clear, and I hope the Council of State will be nice to be specific on what to follow up. I think seven measures are going very far, because these measures are being taken very well, but I also think it is incredibly important to look at the whole. If you just add one piece, if you just work with the Coastal Works or just take the piece of the fee, you can't get the result you actually want. You have to put all the pieces in this puzzle to get the effect you're after. It is important to clean up the charging system – no doubt about it – and it is also incredibly important to look at the payment made by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency for the unloading service. Should the Storting be present and granted, or should this only be paid as a customer? It is good that we now have this wreckage system investigated, and also the ECOBONUS system, which many in Europe have put in place, it may be interesting to look at. I think there are very important environmental policies in this, because the average age of the fleet today is between 30 and 35 years. I won't call them rust holes, but it's just before. Therefore, it is important to make use of both to get this wreckage system in place and to help us renew the fleet, and that we focus on the fact that it is environmentally friendly boats that are going to carry this goods forward. Finally, I would simply like to ask the Council of State to show the power of action in this matter and to follow up the measures quickly and also with an overall focus – not in part and in part, because that does not give the effect we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1355	Everyone in this debate today has expressed ambitions to stimulate growth in maritime transport. It's also great to hear the Council of State here today, which has taken this into account, and that the government has been working on many of these challenges. Even if someone wanted one to come to Stortinget with a collective solution, it is very important that the government is working in a targeted and systematic way to improve the conditions for short sea shipping. There are also short expectations for government's maritime strategy to be put forward in the summer, and that this strategy has many good solutions that will strengthen maritime competitiveness and thus also make it easier to obtain more goods from land to sea. The Swedish Shipowners’ Association has pointed to a number of measures as well as the measures that are emerging in this area today. This includes: to improve the net pay arrangements, to adjust the operating limits and to strengthen both our flag and our ship registers. There are hundreds of trailers going every day with both fish and other goods across the mountain, through villages and through cities and further down to the continent. Only from my small municipality of origin Sund in Hordaland, there are an average of 14 trailers per day with fish from the salmon industry. A ship on short sea voyages may lift 200-300 trailers directly off the road and it will immediately cause fewer accidents, lower emissions, less queues and much less wear. But there are challenges in getting this done. The whole maritime traffic management system must be targeted, streamlined and modernised to bring about a significant change in the volume of goods from land to sea. Norway is today one of the world's largest and most advanced maritime nations, and the industry is strong. To further develop this position, an active maritime policy with good and competitive framework conditions is needed to enable industry to assert itself internationally. But it's also very important that the industry delivers here at home and along our coast. Then a policy is needed to get more goods from land to sea. The government has already strengthened the net pay regime for the first time since 2008, the conditions for Norwegian ownership are better when reducing the property tax, and the Maritime Directorate is strengthened by day-to-day staffing. These are all good measures to strengthen the maritime industry. Transport of goods from land to sea depends on a number of requirements for a real transport option. First, there must be a volume in each single port where a waiting a call, second, there must be a competitive price. That's not easy, given the competition one has international with cheap Eastern European trailers that are ready to pick up Norwegian salmon and transported him cheap to the rest of the world. It also requires a forward-looking infrastructure in our ports and good and efficient logistics solutions both in our ports and on new vessels. I am very excited about the arrangement that has been made to get a wreck order, but I also want one to take into account that it is important to continue working with an effective and good port strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1374	When I listened to the Council of State, one would almost think it was a matter that the government had put forward itself, because he talked so much about it. So I just want to remind you that these are representatives from the opposition – one from the Christian People's Party and one from the Labour Party – and the committee has been working on what we're talking about. We often have good debates on representatives' proposals, and so have we. But when it comes to proposals for representatives, they are largely put on the record. Now we're going to adopt seven Romantic proposals -- a giant thing, I don't think it happens so often. But most of all, it was as if it were government and state councillor Solvik-Olsen who had presented them themselves. But that's not it. It's the Christian People's Party, and it's the Workers' Party – but then we've worked well on it. Then I have to go to what the Council of State says, that the whole bottom line of the Riksrevision report. It doesn't, and it's not like the national audit report that went into this field was a national audit report that just went to the previous government. There was a lot about how the Coastal Works was organized and what resources they used, or they didn't use resources enough and correctly in this field. Then it is also going to continue all the time that the coastal part of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has been transferred to the Ministry of Transport – that now they are all at the same table – that this field is now becoming a priority higher. It won't happen by itself. That's why I'm very happy that we've got such a big collection of these points and we're going to adopt this today, because then one direction shows, and one says something that one should have greater speed and weight in the work that goes on getting more goods over at sea. Then I would like to inform you that what the Riksrevision was busy about, as the representative Hansson pointed out – proposal No. 1 - we'll support, because it's a good follow-up. We are not supported by the other two proposals. So just a little correction to Rasmus Hansson: ONS – the largest international oil mass in our part of the world – is not brought down. It is the Norwegian supplier messa that is between two and a half years apart, taking a break.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1389	Just a few points: I think it is important to be able to praise the decision of the Greatness, especially when you so much get on the line that the government announced in the Health Declaration. Then there's no reason why we should do what the previous government did: vote down everything that comes from the Storing, whether it makes sense or not. I understand that the representative Rommetveit is used to it being different, and that a government should always be dissatisfied with what the Stortinget decides. But for this government it is actually important to cooperate well with the Storting, and when the Storting comes up with good suggestions, there is no reason why I should stand and choke them down. On the contrary, I should be able to praise them and be satisfied, just as the proposers are. It is also worth remembering that all the seven concrete proposals that are now being adopted are promoted by the Christian People's Party. It is very nice that the Workers' Party also made a proposal shortly after the Riksrevision report was discussed in Stortinget, where a strong criticise of the short-distance shipping policy that was conducted from 2009 to 2013. It is good that the Workers' Party so needs to do things differently, but the concrete content of all these proposals is Christian People's Party, and therefore I especially commend the Christian People's Party. But I think it's very good that all the parties are involved and support them, because that means that it's a unanimous collapse that gives some clear signals about what the government is going to do. I'm very comfortable with the signals coming, because they're going in the direction that government is already working. I think that's really great. When the Riksrevision came up with criticism and said that the way the Coastal Works were organized, one did not achieve those objectives, the Coastal Works alone are not responsible for it. In fact, the government is the governing body of the Coastal Plant. That's why I think it's a little strange that someone just pushes the responsibility to the Coastal Works, when the responsibility for the Coastal Works finally sits with the government. That's why the majority who is now running has reorganized the system, so that the Coastal Agency is now under the Ministry of Transport, precisely because much of what the Coastal Agency is doing is more about transport than about fish. But we must ensure that the fishing side is also well maintained. But for all intents and purposes – just so that the representative Rommetveit will not misunderstand – I will praise all the proposals that come into the Stortinget, regardless of who promotes them, when they are in line with the line with which I myself am satisfied. Sometimes Stortinget decides things that I'm not satisfied with either, but I'm still going to do it. That's the way it is in a democracy, and that's how it is to sit in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Case No. 3–7 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1462	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 3–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1468	Then the Storting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1478	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals were put forward by Mr Hansson on behalf of the Greens. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that new transport projects and major projects under planning be assessed in the light of the Storting’s target of higher emissions reductions in the transport sector, including the objective of increasing the share of freight transport from road to sea and rail.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with an assessment of whether the E39-free road project is contributing to the objective of the Storting to increase the share of road-to-sea freight.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1504	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the objective of the Storting on increased freight transport at sea is set as a clear performance target and operationalised as part of the governance information between the Ministry of Transport and underlying agencies.’ The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1597	Case No. 3–7 are the second time legal proceedings and refer to Acts 53–57. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2015-04-07.ana.ud2675e1779	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
